ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16306	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this draft law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act and the Agency, these are only different members who are being changed, or where once a small change is made, the Government proposes that in the event of losses caused by deposited funds by the Agency, they are primarily referred to as foreign funds, that, for the sake of security, such funds can be withdrawn and with these funds purchased from domestic market values. What's the point is that this Deposit Insurance Agency has one history. It began in 2005 when after the collapse, i.e. bankruptcy proceedings conducted at certain banks, the damage of Serbian citizens suffered by these banks was thought to be compensated. Of course, in 2015, there is a complete collapse when it comes to the financial potential of this agency, but what is very important to say for citizens is that these funds serve to compensate up to 50,000 euros to citizens who, by saving or depositing money, were depositors, or commissions of certain banks. The 50,000-euro figure is something that remains controversial today. When the Government's decision on such amendments was already made, it may also be necessary to consider this total amount that should be increased in any case, if nothing else, because of some fairness or fairness towards savings that have much greater resources in one bank, or those that have allocated smaller funds, under the allegations, to several banks. This is what the state guarantees up to 50,000 euros, but the prehistory of the agency consists of the liquidation of domestic banks. Just remember that Beobanka, Belgrade Bank, Invest Bank and other banks have been liquidated. In time, we are now coming to the realization that we Serbian radicals were right, not to highlight it as some political point, but for the reason that in time we warned that the destruction of domestic banks is going towards completely destroying the industry and leading to a situation where the value of agricultural land is devalued on, conditionally speaking, a market. Look how it goes. When it comes to industry, when it comes to economics, it is enough to give an example of only Belgrade, i.e. Beobanke, a complete or large part of the economy was a committee in "Beobanca", or the Belgrade Bank, and it is now found out that the bank was not at that time for liquidation, that the bankruptcy procedure was not to be conducted. However, the bankruptcy mass from these banks was controlled by a certain number of people or, specifically, was under the absolute control of a man named Mladjan Dinkic. Mladjan Dinkic is the prehistory of this agency. He's part of the history of this agency, but we'll talk more closely when there's an amendment debate. What is contained in the remaining two points of the agenda, which is that the Republic of Serbia provides guarantees in favour of the German Development Bank for two purposes. First, for the purpose of electricity, the funds that will be used by the electricity industry and secondly, the funds that will benefit from the "Electro Network of Serbia". Yesterday we listened to a part of the argument from Minister of Resort, Mr. Antic. He explained everything he wrote here in the material. However, he forgot to say that there are certain conditions here in these loans that are somehow hidden, so the conditions related to "Electroprivred Serbia", which is the impregnating of the "Tesla One" thermal power plant. The intention or tendency of the European Union, as part of environmental protection, is clearly hidden to stop the production of so-called dirty electricity, the dirty technology for electricity production. We have here the removal of a problem called huge amounts of ash, which are functionally disrupted by surrounding settlements, residents living in the area of the thermopower plant, but we also have one technology that will most likely solve it, by physically removing it, by accessing a new technological process, which is to reduce the amount of water, that the proportion of ash and water will be 1:1, that is purely for public reasons, to prevent pollution of water streams, i.e. to protect both local and regional waters. What, in any case, stands clearly in the second guarantee proposal is that the European Union insists through these loans on reducing carbon dioxide. The reduction of carbon dioxide means exactly what we radicals are telling you now, that the thermoelectric power plants are slowly starting to shut down and power generation or the high technology for protecting human environments or slowly, if it's not a financial state capable of doing it, the electro-systems, then the thermoelectric power plants have to be shut down. You can see for yourself that Hungary has already begun its preparations. He's a big announcer of a nuclear power plant. Everywhere in the world, nuclear power plants are taking more and more places, contrary to those theories and the thesis that nuclear power plants are a potential danger. Here we have one relevant data, which is that the "Electro Network of Serbia", is listed in the material as data, in the transmission of electricity, it is said that this renewal or change of the voltage grid from 220 to 400 kilowatts will serve to transport as high-quality electricity from the east to the west, i.e. from Ukraine via Romania, Serbia, Montenegro to Italy. You can see it's the protection of pure technology. So we here have to make sure that by getting these loans there are certain conditions when it comes to technology. It's not quite easy when you change the voltage grid and you change the entire power system by 220 kilowatts or, as the minister says, KV, but 400 kilowatts means a change of complete technology. First, around the complete transmission network, they must change from the cable system, i.e. the power grid itself across the trafo station to certain transformers. So technology must fit. We see here, in this material, that the German Development Bank clearly condition that it will call a tender and that according to international standards, manufacturers will only be able to deliver equipment if they meet, so-called. ISO standards. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that there are, for now, three shut-off cable factories in Serbia, that there is a completely destroyed trafostation manufacturing industry in Serbia. Three cable industries exist in Jagodina, Zajecar and Novi Sad. In Jagodina, this industry is something that has been a driver of the economy for many, many years or decades, and the place where most of the population of Jagodina Municipality was employed. Now she's devastated so much that she can't even produce these car industry cables, where they bring us these moving weight factories to complete the so-called. Car conductors, and cable industry can't produce. It's a very simple technology. Imagine the momentum that would have been if we had maintained in the past 17 years of cable production, if we had helped to preserve, as much as we had, the production of the trafoa in Minel. That would be a big deal now. It's a huge job. You know, we're getting carried away here with the idea that we're going to be making enormously big money when it comes to transporting electricity. Don't get carried away with such an idea. That idea will quickly melt, for the simple reason we saw in the material the other day, when it comes to lending from the World Bank, that the World Bank conditioned the price of electricity. If it gives a certain amount, it says - the price of electricity will be collected with one set of dynamics. That's the policy of the price of electricity run by the World Bank, it's part of the global system. What do you think, that the World Bank will think about cheap electricity being in Serbia? They don't care. If half the euro is the price in Europe and the world, so what do they care, half the euro will pay Serbia. How's he gonna pay? They don't care that the population is getting poorer and poorer, they have real estate, don't pay for electricity, at first they'll shut you down, and later on at your interest, they'll take your apartments, they'll take your houses. What do they care? They are not perfectly interested in what purchasing power is and what a social opportunity is in Serbia, and we need to take care of everything. We, instead of thinking through these contracts about that there is a healthy competition, and a healthy competition with these loans, such as the German Development Bank is credits that we possibly have from the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation is interested, you are the witnesses, around investment in energy, in electricity production, when it comes to Serbia. Energy is something that's the future with education, with education. Agriculture and energy are Serbia's future. Don't be so easy to accept this technological addiction, aside from financial collapse and poverty, even if we're brought into technological slavery, the question is where we end up in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16307	Thank you. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. He's not here. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16308	Very, very short. Absolutely, by respecting what Mr. Mircic was saying, just a few elements I still want to comment on. First of all, I think it is good to create the atmosphere itself in Serbia, that it is important for us as a state and society to reach standards in protecting the environment. It's not good that we're creating an atmosphere and climate in our society and that someone is imposing it on us. It's not good that we're creating a climate to do it for someone else. First of all, we need to understand that we are doing this for ourselves, because of the people who live in our environment, first of all, the largest energy facilities, read the biggest polluters, and for our children. I don't accept the concept – don't let people do it, it's not good for us, not for us, we do it for ourselves, and it doesn't matter if it's part of our agenda. I think that we, as a society, are mature enough to realize that, first of all, reducing pollution emissions, reducing CO2 emissions and other pollutants is in our interest and that is why we have to invest. I am proud that over the past few years we have invested about 200m euros and through this reduced the dusty pollution from our thermopower plants by 93%. We have to finish the denitrification, we have to finish our absence, and we have to reduce SO2 emissions in the final because it's important for us and that's what we're firmly defined and firmly solved for. No one's making us shut down our thermos. The thermosphere will live to the extent to which it will be adapted, in a technological sense, to those trends that are necessary, along with all those time limits that are foreseen for adaptation in the sector. I remind you that we have a time period until 2023 when we need to adapt our thermoelectric power plants to some level of standard. We go a little bit each year, and I am absolutely convinced that in 2023 we will meet that, that our thermal power plants will operate in accordance with these significant standards. I repeat, for the hundredth time, for us, our children, the generations to come. It is clear from the European Commission's energy community that no one prevents us from building new thermal power plants either. We're building Bones B-3 right now, and for that we have, let's say, a lot of rights and no one's asking us why we're building thermal power plants. The only question that's being asked to us and everyone else who wants to build thermal power plants is whether the best available technology is being used. Therefore, the thermosectoral sector must be developed by monitoring standards in the field of environmental protection, and when it comes to production technology, in accordance with the best available technology. This best available technology has absolutely no designation of origin that it is from the EU or any other country. We work in Kostolc with kine technology. For example, in our Elektroprivred Serbia on capital remonts, let me say, investments are made by the Silov machine, meaning the Russian company. So these best available technologies, they come from both the EU and China and the Russian Federation, so there is no political risk of that kind of thing that you were talking about. There's no bias, we don't technologically rely on anyone, we're not technologically dependent, we allow an absolute match between technologies based on their price and quality. Finally, the policy of price, a very complex question, a very sensitive question. This government, I think, has shown a high degree of sensitivity in this matter and we are absolutely trying to balance between the need for a price to come to that economic, read the market, level and that recognition of what our social economic opportunities are. We are constantly holding back this process of reaching that market price, although we are absolutely right, constantly under a certain kind of soft pressure from international financial institutions to do so faster. What I want to draw once again, that this government is leading one, I deeply believe in that, responsible social policy on this matter, and I want to remind you that, when it comes to... You'll get muscle inflammation, put it down, I'm not responding to it. I have to remind you that we have this category of socially endangered buyer and that the Republic of Serbia out of the budget sets out some, let's say, ten million euros for free kilowatts and free meters of cubic gas. We thus help around 60,000 endangered consumers per month. We have clearly defined criteria and I repeat, social policy as such, first of all, should be realised in this way and that is something that is some government policy for the period ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16309	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. There's nothing persuasive. He didn't get you wrong, he answered. You said yourself you'd follow the amendments. What do you say, wrong? Okay. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16310	Mr. Antic, this isn't about coercion, this is about conditioning. Just remember, before you in this ministry, the Ministry contained the protection of the human environment, was Zorana Mihajlovic. Only she and Tito are general education and they know everything. The biggest objections during the negotiations with the EU were in the chapter on protecting the human environment. What did the EU do? Through financial leverages, she conditioned that Serbia must respect certain standards. Don't say that now we Serbian radicals are making up something that wasn't. It's common knowledge. Secondly, Mr Antic, you can control and influence prices as long as you are part of an independent financial one, but don't forget this borrowing trend, entering new investments clearly raises the question of when this government will decide to privatise "Electroprivred Serbia". We already have some announcements and indications that such a possibility exists. Then how will the government affect the prices? You've got some visionary things to look at. You have to see in some future how things are going to happen. As far as dirty technology is concerned, it has an instrument used by the EU, or the World Bank. Just one fact, the electricity from that technology gets cheaper on the market and you're forced to close it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16311	Thank you. Goran Ciric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16312	Dear Parliament Speakers, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Serbian citizens, and yesterday and today, we have a debate that is certainly better quality than the previous session, but I think that is the reason for the insistence and parliamentary club of the Democratic Party and other fellow opposition colleagues. I think it's a good thing we've opened a dialogue on all these issues. I would remind you that, on such and similar topics, we have had the presence of the Justice Minister, who, of course, could not give relevant answers to many of the questions that we have asked, on the basis of our decision on the borrowing of our country of 200m euros for the needs of both the EPS and the Railways and the Serbians. I think it's one of the key topics of this debate. It is important that you are here today to open a debate and I think we have the preconditions to discuss important topics that are important not only for us in this room, but above all for the citizens of Serbia. The topic is the passive responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, hence the guarantees it provides for loans to EPS and the "Electro Networks of Serbia" of 45 plus 15 million, so 60 million in total. For us, the purpose of this debt is not disputed, it is indeed justified. The fertilization and increase of efficiency in the distribution of electricity is something that is certainly necessary, but it is necessary to fully open all information on details and the way we are in charge. The first formal lack of these laws, which have been proposed, is that we in the materials, and also in the introductory information, do not have complete information on the loan agreement. This mentions the loan agreement between "Electroprivreda Serbia" and the KfW lender. The "Electro Networks of Serbia" and "KfW" agreement is also mentioned. Only bits of information are given about the conditions of borrowing, and I don't think it's good at creating our mutual trust and trying to find solutions to such important issues. Yesterday, some colleagues and colleagues showed how important this is, so the EPS with its own if I am not mistaken, about two billion euros a year participates with more than 6% in GDP, and with this information that we have from 1% of the decline in production in the first quarter, we see how it affects the overall growth of GDP in Serbia. This is a question that is important not only for EPS, not only for EPS workers, it is extremely important. No one disputes their efforts, but our question is how and what effects are being used by the funds we approved a year and a half ago, we talked about it. As the Republic Assembly, we approved an EPS restructuring loan, 200m euros. There has been a lot of talk, the previous director has been very much talking about restructuring of the EPS, about corporateisation that will solve many problems in the EPS itself, but unfortunately we have seen the effects of this restructuring and those spent 200m euros. What are the effects? Production decline in the first quarter of almost 20%, 18% say data. I'm referring to some information that's available to the public. It's something that's a theme for all of us. One of the questions for the Energy Minister is – at which stage did the EPS restructuring process, because we know that there would be little reason for the guarantee and our vote in the Assembly, if the EPS had implemented full corporateisation, if it had transformed into a stock company, if it had entered its assets, so that it could guarantee its assets as a stock company for debts and loans, what does that mean? Does the lender and lender not have enough confidence in the borrower, so it is necessary for the Republic of Serbia to participate in its guarantee? You said in part that the reason for our guarantee is a more favourable way of lending, and I can accept that part of the argument that we have more favourable credit conditions because of the firm guarantees of the state, but I think it is important that we all talk about how both the EPS and all other public enterprises will reach that level of organisation through the corporate process by recording their assets and correcting that error that was made in 1995 by adopting the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, which has abolished property to all local self-governments and state and public enterprises. So now we're correcting this process and it takes 25 years to correct it. This is a question for all of us – how effective and how effective are all these funds that we approve in order to get more efficient public enterprises? We discussed the relevance of the data with Mr. Finance Minister about the level of public debt. I'm still on the Public Debt Administration website, and I'm seeing official data, and that's all I can talk about. You mentioned a few days ago that in three, four days new information will come, I believe your word. You spoke of new data and a new level of public debt, given the changes in the rate of dollars and relations with the euro, but I think it is important that as responsible people, I come first from myself, our MPs, we talk about true information and relevant information. So that's how I expect the Minister of Energy when we talked yesterday about the reasons for the major decline in production in the EPS, not because we're going to attack you, to attack people in the EPS, but to try to find a solution, because I'm not going to take my discussion just for criticism. Yes, there are many reasons for criticism and this loss obviously shows that the system has not been effectively managed in view of the levels of funds invested in restructuring. I'll tell you what I think is a deep reason, and some of my colleagues have already talked about it. I think that in the last five years we have developed this atmosphere that we in public enterprises have no capable people who will run these public enterprises in view of the announcements and the exposé of the Prime Minister for Privatisation of Telekom, the privatisation of EPS, the airport and other important public systems, especially when it comes to key infrastructures and those enterprises that carry out jobs of general interest. I think it's important to change that atmosphere. I have warned former Minister Sertic in these benches that some MPs often hear defensive messages in economic terms when they announced that this continued leadership and management of Telekom and the necessary privatisation of Telekom would be precisely important because we are not capable of running such systems, that our people are not able to run such systems. I think it's important to get out of that phase where we only talk about restructuring, reorganisation, rationalization. Yes, it is necessary, but it needs to focus a lot of energy and a lot of strength and readiness and expertise on development projects. I think it is important that we all talk about development and, above all, about new capacities and electricity production and about how we will overcome this problem we have and what is a big problem, I repeat again, not just for the EPS, but for the whole state of Serbia. That's why I'm going to make a proposal here, because I think you as ministers sit here and have the opportunity to consider such suggestions. We have already proposed, it is important to adopt in the Assembly a law on the performance of the general interest. It is important to lay down rules in which companies will also acquire licences and rights to deal with matters of general interest. It is very important for us to separate the infrastructure in all public enterprises from operations, that the EMS as a key infrastructure, important for the state of Serbia, cannot be privatised above 51% when it comes to the ownership of the state of infrastructure. The same applies to railways and that applies to telecommunications resources. I think that in such a way the state can manage the general interest, because it is of general interest, we will agree, that the current reaches every remotest village in the Republic of Serbia, and that the operations over that infrastructure are being developed by competition and that operations should encourage market development. What are concrete questions regarding these two laws on the validation and giving guarantees for the loan to KfW and the support of these projects that we were talking about? So we got information that the commission is 0.75%, which is almost identical to the interest rate. We agree, the interest rate is very favourable – 0.80% and the commission is 0.75%. The question is, who does the commission pay? Since we have in this part that the total of 45 million plus 15 million, 60 million, therefore, that amount of 0.75% in absolute figures is 450,000 euros. So the question is, who does that pay? Second question - work structure and consulting services? We can't see it. I believe my fellow MPs and MPs are also interested in this structure. How much of these 60 million will be invested in the work itself to realize this purpose that we can agree on, and what is the role of consultants in this business? We can't see it from these documents because we haven't been given a loan agreement. I think it's important that we get this information or today from you, Mr. Minister, or we get materials with contracts signed between KfW, ESM and EPS. Also, I think it's important when we talk about it, because we're talking about the importance of trust and the way in which it goes to the public, to open up all the information, because then you can expect legitimate doubts. Then when there's no real information, when they're placed selectively, then you can expect doubt from that information. The question is, who's doing these consulting services? When we get an answer on the level of consulting services, about the relationship with what needs to be spent on the execution of works, then it's a question of who is doing consulting services, and how is this process going to be done to select consultants in that part? When we talk about the Deposit Insurance Agency, this supplement of the Deposit Insurance Act really makes sense at first sight, because with negative interest rates it is clear that it is necessary to place those funds more wisely and responsibly and those deposits in preserving the quality of those funds. But one question arises regarding the allocation of funds to the finance ministry and the NBS, and it really shouldn't become a practice for any number of reasons. You spoke of something, Mr. Minister, but I think it should be remembered and it should not be forgotten that a good portion of the Agency's foreign deposits comes from the IBRD loan, for which there are already state guarantees. What does that mean? The responsible placement of these funds, and we see that this is a very important structure, the currency structure is somewhere at 80%, as far as I've seen, is a very responsible job and it is a very responsible question in which this quality of funds will be preserved. What does it mean for the Republic of Serbia, that I have placed those 80% of the foreign exchange funds, in which the IBRD loans for which we have already given the guarantee as a state? Is this a new risk for the state of Serbia and a new risk for increasing public debt and new obligations in the event of poor placements of these funds? These are important questions to discuss. Once again, I urge all of you to speak about all these laws, which seem not important enough because, for God's sake, we only owe 60 million to 25 billion public debt, or you're going to say 24, but the official data tells us exactly that it's about 25 billion or 24 billion and 900 million. Minister, when you're here, I want to talk about the data, because in the debate at the last meeting of the Assembly, we had an interpretation that the 200m-euro debt to the EPS is actually a reprogramming of a 2011 debt and we heard it here in the debate. Then we heard confirmation that it really isn't, because it just stands in these documents. I mention this in order to talk only about relevant data and what confuses us and the public of Serbia. I will show you an example, since we often talk about this particular data on the Public Debt Administration website, which says that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on 31 December 2016 is 25 billion and 189 million, that the debt situation in general is on 31 March 2017 24 billion and 900 million. That's all the data says. We expect these up-to-date and new data. We can handle this information. But when you see additional information and you deepen it, it is said that these 25 billion and 189 million on December 31st are 73.5% of the public debt in GDP, and that these 24 billion and 900 million are 69.3%, or how much information, 69.3% of the public debt in GDP, the simplest mathematical operations you can get to the next data -- that in the first quarter between December 31st and 31st, GDP was, according to which the relative debt and GDP ratio was calculated at 34 billion euros, and that on 31st March, it was 36 billion euros. It's a simple operation. So 36 billion from 34 billion. That's two billion more. Again, the simplest calculation would mean that GDP has increased by almost 5.5%, because two billion in 34 billion or 35 billion is just as much, and yet we have concrete data that GDP in the first quarter has increased by 1%. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the data that confuses us, and you might have that answer, but I think it confuses the public of Serbia, but I think it's important to talk about all the data the way we talked yesterday, because the argument -- the production of 20% in the EPS has fallen because of the bad weather in this year's absolute decline, unacceptable. Because you have growth in the region in both BiH and Montenegro, and in Macedonia, and we will agree that the weather conditions were not so different that these weather conditions would affect this and be the only reason for the decline in production in Serbia by 20%. That's why I want to talk about credible information, which is why I want to talk seriously about every topic, which is why I want us not to insult each other so we can come out with the arguments, but to expect you as representatives of the executive government to have the right answers. I expect today, and I think that in that sense and that spirit, we will continue this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16313	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16314	Thank you very much. I like both the tone and the argument on today's discussion, that's very good, to talk about numbers. The fact is, there are many misunderstandings about who takes and who quotes. It's completely accurate data, except we've been quoting other data. So you quoted, and you said that, the data on the level of debt of the general state, we in this House quote data so-called. the republican budget, since it is an integral part of the documents parliament decides on. Besides, there are debts of local self-government, there are other debts that go into general debt, the debt of the general state, but the difference is not very large, 400 million approximately. So that's the difference and it's permanently moving through. So that's what explains the difference between the number 25, 189, which you mention, and 24.8, but that's the constant difference, it doesn't change dynamics. As far as dynamics are concerned, both figures show a decrease of approximately 300 million between 31 December and 31 March. That's what we said yesterday in the debate, and that's exactly what it's about paying off one particular loan to Socita General, there's no dilemma. What's very important, we can discuss the details of the digits, we're on the path of reducing the debt in absolute numbers. And given that part of that reduction is related and when it works negatively and when it works positively, it's about changing course differences, that's the part that we're saying, but there's little we can do for a short term. Someone has already mentioned that 20% of our debt is in dinars, about 40 percent and a few percent in euro, and if 30 percent in dollars. The instability between the euro and the dollar affects the debt figure, but de facto does not affect the size of any of the three components shown in that currency. It's very important that we understand each other about exactly what we're talking about. So, you mentioned a few things about the EPS. One is an EBRD loan of 200 million, which serves to refinance expensive old ENP commitments, and is conditioned by a change in the quality of governance in the EPS and is foreseen by a plan that I believe was adopted in June 2015. So there is no dilemma that we have brought a very high-quality long-term plan to improve the governance structure, technical efficiency and financial restructuring of the EPS. How it's done, how effective it is, how much we delay or not delay it is someone's question, I think, a periodic report. On this point, I think Minister Antic can provide such a report that we have a complete argument and facts about how far we have arrived in implementing the plan. This in itself does not explain all the movements, since there are events such as floods and such as other things, such as dives or other exogenous influences, such as floods and other things, such as dives or other exogenous effects on the course of production. But it's not that important either, because it's something that all countries are facing and that's just what we're considering. If you want to talk about who's to blame, if it could be warned, it's a completely different discussion. As for the comparison of figures in GDP, the gross domestic product, when we get into the new year, we use a projected figure of GDP when we start counting in the new year. So last year we used a GDP figure of about 4,400 billion, I think, which was for 2016, and this year we're using a GDP figure of 4,400 billion that we're designing for this year. Notice, it's nominal GDP, and real growth figures can, but they don't have to match that, especially at quarter level. So when this number is calculated, the system is ejected, routinely divides that debt figure into euro multiplied by a course divided by about 4.390. How do you do that? You'll get that number. If you want, if you have more precise estimates of how GDP is moving at quarter level, we don't have official estimates, we can calculate. But the fact is that when the debt is reduced by 300 million, and a positive and real and nominal GDP growth is projected, then it should fall. As far as the fall goes, we can sit down and make a deal. It's a matter of convention here. I'm telling you, we're using GDP for 2017 as a calculation. Otherwise, for each month we would have to estimate, statistics in our country are not accurate enough to publish that monthly data. They can give us internal estimates, but there's only one estimate at the level of the year. In a part where we really agree, and where we're not even close to what we're supposed to have, it's a question of the content of these projects, the question of the documents behind it, and the question of what's called the project assessment in the world. I'll tell you something about which other government colleagues will have a different opinion. We, when we do projects with the EBRD, mean the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or the World Bank, we always have, in addition to the document that comes to you for ratification, accompanied by so-called "The World Bank". a project evaluation document detailing all the things you want to know. So, usually, the situation of the sector in which the credit and dynamics of the sector are given and the reason for this loan and the detailed specifications of the cost of the project, including the part financed from the loan, which is financed from domestic funds and which is not financed, say, since we, as a rule, release them from certain taxes, import and other projects that are financed internationally. Of course, one of the elements is domestic and foreign consulting services. So you're asking the right question. We wanted to standardise that, and for those projects where you have bilateral loans, that methodology is not clear, and that's where we would have to force parliament to support us to choose some methodology and evaluate these projects in the same way. So, that the government parallel to the loan document that always exists, that's the contract that you ratify, there's a document on the contents of that loan that will then explain exactly the part that Minister Antic explained why it's being moved, how it fits into the strategy, how it raises capacities and meets environmental standards and everything else, including the cost elements -- we do it with filters, we do it like this, we do it like that. Now, why don't we have that standard? It is a question that we can easily ask and answer even more easily, we should ask, since these documents exist in the case of international financial institutions they are given. In the case of bilateral loans to some, and loans like these coming from grenades, they exist but are not routinely given. It would be good, here you can ask as MPs to join in and we'll give it very gladly, I don't think it should be there. There's no dilemma, you understand. Finally, to explain this nature of funding conditions. So every organization international, bilateral and multilateral, has its own funding conditions, and usually there are two levels of explanations. It's one thing for the state to guarantee, then those in their two funding groups give you more favourable terms. Because they say if the state guarantees then it covers all non-commercial risks. So they also classify you in a better category, give you a lower interest rate, that's 0.8%. So we're not going with the state guarantee KfW could still finance it, but maybe not at that rate, I can't tell you exactly what the rate is, but certainly not 0.8%. As for "front and feed", it is that 0.75% that pays once, at the start of the project and that de facto covers the cost of preparing the project. So you figure that out right over here 0.75%. So it's the so-called "front and fee", it's not interest, it's paid once, and 0.25% is paid on employed and unused funds. So he says, I'm going to put 45 million on the side of the EPS, it's going to be in liquid form that makes less money than another form optimal, and that 25% difference covers the costs of hiring them. It's standard procedure at every bank and ours. Sometimes someone expresses the cost of this as a fixed sum, the cost of credit preparation and credit assessments, etc., of 100,000 euros, and someone says it is "front and fair" 0.75% as it is here, and it is not for Serbia, it is for all, it is a creditor policy and it is not... And sometimes it adapts to the countries. Let's say the World Bank typically has this "front and feed" taken down or half for countries with lower income levels, and KfW debts can't exactly tell you, but that's standard. We got, what we got, that's standard. Finally, just another note, I agree that we should have the same information, I agree that we should explain the essence. But the point is why are we providing these guarantees? These guarantees are an integral part of the support strategy for the sector. You mentioned 200 million IBRD that were directly granted to the EPS to refinance, and were conditioned by the improvement and implementation of the restructuring plan, and this second loan that applies not only to the EPS but also to other energy and traffic companies, which we had some 182.6m euros a day ago, is the support of the reform budget implemented in the EPS and Serbia's railways. But it's a completely different type of credit. He says, we will give the budget cheap support for implementing reforms in these sectors where there are high risks of the failure of the sector going to the budget. Remember, for years, we've been paying for what Serbia's gas failed to pay, we've been taking over the debt of the state, we've had problems with losses in the Railways, for years we've been giving railways what we've put into the budget this year 17.18, 19 billion to cover the pay gaps and the cost of participating in credit financing. Therefore, it has a deep logic, they give us 182 million to support reforms that will close these gaps where budgets are often poured out. So they're completely different instruments, this is investment, that structural and the money stays with the EPS, and this third is support for the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16315	Thank you, Minister. Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16316	I can agree with the assessment that it's good when we have a dialogue. So, I agree that it is good that we have a dialogue and I agree that we should discuss and analyse common data based on accurate information, and in the spirit of that, I would like to invite my dear colleague Ciric, on the other hand, to have accurate information. Production in the EPS did fall in the first quarter compared to the same period last year, but not by 20%, but by 14.5%. So, I'm just calling for us to stick to the same spirit when you ask us to speak exact numbers, then I'm asking you, too, because I don't have the right to demand that you speak the exact figures, and the exact figures are exactly 14.5% drop in electricity production and 10.1% drop in coal production, we're talking about the first quarter of 2017, compared to the first quarter of 2016. And I repeat, in 2016, once again I have to stress this, is one of the two largest electricity productions in the history of the EPS. I said yesterday, the average production of electricity in the EPS in the last 15 years, I think it's a long enough period of time that we can agree that the average is some reference, is 33,700 gWh 2016, 36,650. So we can see that 2016 really was one of those extremely good years with high production. In 2017, the first quarter smaller, we are not satisfied with it, absolutely. Big criticism of the fact that some elements didn't get rid of each other any faster. But we also have to look at all the conditions that led to it. I have to point out no matter how much you are now presenting some information that I'm not aware of. For the first time, I hear that in January, for example, anyone in the region had a serious product of electricity, because they were all in dramatic problems, and Montenegro, in particular, I know it. So it's absolutely impossible that they had an increase in production, but here, because I like to be very exact, in January 2017, the flow power plant, which means what our production is with the hydro sectors, because it's Đerdap, 446 gvh, this year, 678 gVh. So, the honourable MPs, 34.5% in January was less hydro-sector production on flow, so on Gjerdap. In the entire first quarter, production in the hydro sector was about 14% lower than in the first quarter of last year. So without dilemma, these meteorological and hydrometeorological conditions have significantly affected the fact that in 2017 we have less production than in 2016. When it comes to coal production, there's an explanation, I'm not saying it's an excuse, but there's one perfectly reasonable and rational explanation that we're not completely satisfied with either, but we have to consider those objective parameters. So in January, there was a problem with the transport of coal between Kolubara and Obrenovac, instead of going 100 tonnes a day, there were 50,000 tonnes a day due to the need for each car to cool off. And in February, at the end of February, by the 12th of April, we had reduced production in field D due to the fact that we had activated the rink, or one massive instability on the coal floors of 2.6 km long, which is why we didn't have any more serious coal production at the time of the maltene. So, to talk about precise numbers, to understand them completely, not to twist them the way we like them, I'm absolutely for that kind of approach, and with all the numbers and data, I'm at my disposal both to the Assembly and to the general public. On the other hand, I just want to inform you that according to what my colleague Vujovic was talking about, we had the process of corporateisation, the process of restructuring the EPS. If we had created a public EPS company from the 14 former companies that has one dependent company, it is the EPS as an operator of the distribution system. He's still stalking himself. When you from the system where you have had 14 general directors for decades, and now each of your teams, you now bring to the level that you have one CEO, executive directors for the production of coal electricity, distribution jobs, etc., these are tectonic changes to "Electroprivred Serbia" that are slowly stalking, which are going on their own course. We are now at the end when we are solving the issue of property, asset and capital values of "Electroprived Serbia", which should bring, I hope, by the end of this year "Electroprivred Serbia" to the status that you were talking about, therefore, the closed stock society is 100% of the ownership capital of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16317	Thank you. (Goran Ciric: Replica. The name and last name were mentioned. ) Yes, but not in a negative context, just a name and a last name. (Goran Ciric: It really doesn't make sense. You've given your colleagues your word, and I've been mentioned by name and last name. I'm sorry, but there's really no basis for replication. (Goran Ciric: I report as an authorised representative then. Yes, I'll give it to you, but later on, when it does, you'll get it as an authorised promoter. (Goran Ciric: You have united the debate, and I am the authorised representative on the fifth and sixth points of the agenda. Yes, we're on the speaker list. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. (Marko Djurisic: A united debate. He has the right to speak as an authorised promoter. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16318	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is Svrljig municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16319	Note that other MPs are just like you who are a little louder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16320	Thank you. I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the City of Nis. Here in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I was elected from the SNS list. What did I want as a MP? I wanted to support the set of these laws, because I think those are laws that stimulate development and development aid in the part where I live, which is southeastern Serbia. I will put an emphasis on the proposal for this law on guaranteeing our state, our Serbian budget for obtaining loans, or loans used by the 15m-euro "Electro Network of Serbia". What else can I say but that this loan is very correct, low interest, nine years when it is due back, by investing in the "Electro Network of Serbia" has the opportunity to ensure the safety of all citizens in the territory of all Serbia regarding electricity. I can also say to remind myself, we all know here in December 2015, when there were great colds, when there were large amounts of ice on high-voltage nets in my area, in Književec, in southeastern Serbia, when the whole voltage fell. Then we succeeded, thanks to the good organisation of EPS workers, the "Electro Network", Serbia's Army, to solve this problem and therefore I now support the bill and you, finance ministers, and you, Mr Antić, energy ministers, because we will have the opportunity to invest in "Electro Networks" to invest in a way that strengthens capacity and better transport of electricity throughout Serbia. We all know, and I can say that the high voltage grid is 110 kilowatts, 220 and 440, and there are no 440 kilowatts of energy transmission in the surrounding countries, and that's what we have in Serbia. Therefore, by investing 15m euros per nine years for this project, for this programme, I think it will be good, by noting that, by investing in Elektro Networks, we put an accent on southeastern Serbia to invest in Elektro Network in southeastern Serbia because there was a very abandoned situation there in the previous period. I can tell you that the low-voltage network in that area until a few years ago was in catastrophic condition. There in some of our villages and Svrlig, Knjižvac, White Palanca and the surrounding municipalities of southeastern Serbia, the "Electro Network" was in catastrophic condition. It's simply a network of 0.4 kilovolts for rural communities, and up until a year ago, it was such a disaster if a sparrow stood on a pole, on a lamppost, that pillar threatened to fall. That's why "Yugoastok" in Nis, then the director of "Yugoastok" was Darko Bulatovic, entered the program, proposed that all these necessary and trafo stations and pillars be reconstructed, so that in my neighborhood it was started to work, to reconstruct, to work. I think that by means of these 15m euros, we will also manage to invest some of these funds in that part of southeast Serbia, strengthen the low-voltage network, strengthen the high-speed network, and thus ensure that all citizens supply better in our Serbia's territory. That's what I'm up against always to southeastern Serbia, because in that part, believe me, it's the hardest. There is nothing missing, nor cold, nor drought, nor fire, nor water, and therefore I fully support this law again, and I will vote as an MP of the United Peasants' Party for a set of these laws because I think we will have the opportunity to improve energy transmission and that every household has the same voltage, that every household has the same opportunity to invest in that household tomorrow, to build and solve and problems in agriculture, to place agriculture in some better light, but without strong and good electricity supplies, and it is not able to work. I think we're going to give this law the opportunity to be within this... I asked Mr. Antic if he would have the opportunity to separate some of the funds for southeastern Serbia through this programme, to solve the problem of the high voltage network there. I just said that in 2015, most of the system was collapsed, the ice was destroyed, and it was built there. Whether it will continue to build a high voltage network of 110 kilowatt wires and whether it will be done in the next period, which is very important for us living in southeastern Serbia. I know and I am sure that this government will continue to work for southeastern Serbia, and I will vote in favour of all the draft laws as an MP for the United Peasant Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16321	Thank you. You've wasted your time. (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) Take it easy. I'll give you my word now. Please think of what you're trying to say, because I don't understand what "authorized" means. (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) ) Take the Rules of Procedure. I heard you. Let me communicate with MPs without cacophony, from all sides to someone more "Employee! “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I hear you well. I can't see, but I hear perfectly. So, take it easy. You see in the Rules of Procedure what the word "authorised" means, please, I would not be called by columnists if I were to educationally address your MP group here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16322	Thank you. President, you've violated Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, which discusses the participants in the debate, which states: “In the basic procedure following the opening of the initial search of each session item of the National Assembly’s agenda, they have the right to speak in accordance with the following order and time-consuming order: the draft act, i.e. the mandated representative of the group of motions which gets the word when requested and does not refer to a restriction on the duration of the presentation. ” On your proposal, President, by a majority decision in the Assembly, and contrary to this Rules of Procedure, we have united six points of the agenda of this session. One of these six points is the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by the DS parliamentary group this time and their president of the parliamentary group has been authorised, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to propose this item of the agenda. By the decision of the majority, on your proposal, even though it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, we are running a united principle search here. So, there are several authorised promoters, these are representatives of the government, the two ministers who are here, that is you as the promoter of one item of the agenda, but also Mr. Ciric. This would not be the first time that legislators in a united debate also appear to abuse and talk about other points that are part of a joint investigation. It was done by your colleague, Mr. Martinovic, several times in this assembly. Every time you let him go. If you want to treat all MPs in the same way, please give the floor, as the author of the proposal to Mr Ciric, to speak whenever he wants, as much as he wants, and next time you think about uniting the agenda points on the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16323	You're not right at all, Your Honor. I didn't expect you to be right, since you're misusing the Rules of Procedure when you refer to a broken Rules of Procedure. The head of the parliamentary group, or MP Ciric, said very clearly that he wanted to replicate, not about the members of the committee he himself proposed, so it would be an abuse to stand up and talk about these points of the agenda, and is not a proposing of these points. (Marko Djurisic: Mr Martinovic can do this. ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure must be done directly. So, you're talking about something that can't really compare when someone's a bill promoter, and when someone's looking for a replica to replicate to the ministers about their exposure. As for the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, he will have the right to address parliament once we have exhausted the list. Thank you. (Marco Djurisic: I ask you to plead.) Of course, I realized we'd come forward. People's MP Milisav Petronijevic is not here. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. I, by the way, am not guilty that MPs have no patience to sit all day, go, go on the list, and then come back here full of anxiety and anger themselves. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Marko Djurisic: Come down. Don't yell at me. You're yelling outside this building at someone closer to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16324	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us four draft laws that I claim to be, and I see also gentlemen, colleagues, MPs from the opposition, that they are correct, concrete, done on time, because all this time and yesterday and today in discussions we have not seen any serious and significant remarks on these four draft laws. What we heard as remarks was about the work of "Electroprived Serbia", as if someone forgot that "Electroprivred Serbia" didn't start working in some prosperity yesterday and that we inherited it in 2012 as a very successful company, but that we are trying and that we are trying all this time trying to recover something in which nothing has been invested for years. Also, as an observation, and I don't know why, Mr. Greek and my friend Zoran Babic, who is neither a subject nor a debate at all. The choice of V.D. was commented. Director of Public Enterprises. I claim that Mr. Babic, his job, as they mention it, will work concretely, committed, safe and quality. Now to return to the amendments and additions to the Bill on Deposit Insurance and Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency. Much of it in yesterday's discussion was said by Mr. and counterpart Goran Kovacevic, so there is no need to spend much time there, but to mention again that what is in the material, that it is one, first of all, the domestic relationship between the Government and the Ministry of Finance towards a particular problem, where we try to have a lot of credit and a lot of credit obligations, that all that creates our country's financial problems in one way and that the funds which, for a year, a year and a half burden on negative interest over a certain period and for a certain time, we allow the NBS to place these foreign funds in foreign currency securities of value, issued by the Republic of Serbia. As for the other two draft laws, which are loans from the German Development Bank, I am particularly pleased that we are taking care of ecology and that it is not to be commended that we are the fourth producer in Europe of coal-based electricity and that we are trying to warn all the negative consequences of such electricity production. Also, I have to mention that many forget, probably at some exotic winter destinations, it wasn't long and cold. This year's heated season lasted from 1 October to 1 May, if we forgot. We forgot about that month of ice on the Danube, and a little bit more. Especially in King’s Ice Days were months and a half. Temperatures were constantly a month and a half below zero degrees. I think we should thank all those people in the electrical system, who made it possible for us to function without a problem and without delay this year. In the end, given that there are many speakers, I will mention that it is a good investment and that it is something that will bring us money in the future, which is this pan-European, trans-European power line, where we are part of it, especially the part that touches me in particular, which is between Kragujevac and the King's power line and King's that 400 kilowatt trafo station, as you said, Mr. Minister. I hope that along with that power line we will allow all of our green energy producers, and in this area there are many producers, I see a lot of future investments, that we will produce green energy, join that power line and export that green energy at higher prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16325	Jahja Ferhatovic is not here. The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16326	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here today we have four interesting points of the agenda on the agenda, and these are two draft laws on the addition of the law and two proposals for a guarantee law. From Mr Vujovic, we heard a lot about the Deposit Insurance Agency, about interkalay interest, etc. Here's the only thing I'd like to add, since my colleagues have explained a lot already what Mr. Vujovic explained, which is that this is exactly the kind of attitude towards the state that shows one household relationship, even in this part where some other government would probably miss it, and therefore, thanks to such good ministers, we've made sure that these funds that we don't have to, we still find a way to preserve and to prevent the defeat of the credit debt of the Republic of Serbia, all about the negative interest that exists in foreign banks. As far as the proposal for a guarantee law at the German Development Bank is concerned, I can only add here, i.e. to ask a question – how is it possible that some opposition MPs in general suspect in the way of repaying credit, since the German Development Bank has existed since 1948? Do they really think that this bank just so approves of credits to someone for whom it does not overexertise the ability to recover funds? Also, in addition to this fact, the EPS also says that it took a grace period for five years, but that the "Electro Networks of Serbia" accepted, i.e. to some extent, and they asked for the grace period to be only three years, so less than they could get, precisely because they think this loan could start paying off a lot sooner. It's very important here to note that public enterprises will be the ones returning these loans. I am pleased that during yesterday and today we also had the opportunity to hear praises on the minister's behalf, even from a few MPs from the opposition, so at this time I would like to commend both Mr Antic and Mr Vujovic, and this shows nothing more than the unwarranted and unfounded attacks on Mr Alexander Vukic, who we heard yesterday during the day. What is really important is that the reduction of this emissions of harmful gases is indeed degutant that anyone is trying to present to Serbian citizens that it is done so that some EU citizen will have cleaner air, while forgetting those people living near the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant. Also, we heard, unfortunately, that the maltenes of these words, not literally, will kill the mouse, so the mouse will get the cat killed, so it will cause someone to lose the house at some point. Indeed, don't do this, deceive Serbian citizens, and put unrelated things in the same basket. Yesterday we heard that some mentioned that it was an attack and that something must be said ugly even if the law is good, because there are a lot of politicians here. I would rather say that many here are dealing with, unfortunately, not politics but politics, so, yesterday, they took the opportunity, although there is nothing to do with this agenda, to deceive Mr. Bratislav Gasic and Alexander Vukic. But let them just keep on going, because the more muddy they get, the fewer people they get. There, and today this gentleman who did it is not there, because another councilman is leaving him in Triestenik, besides the number that has left him so far. The more he attacks, the less the number stands by him, but the more others who do so, even in today's parliament. (Zoran Krasic: Theme. Of course, this is all about the subject. Yesterday we also heard complaints about public companies' directors, how they are employed and why the system does not apply to "Electroprivred Serbia", and they forgot that at a certain point public enterprises were created to work, without a single day of life experience, as the first job in life, and became directors of public enterprises. I would really like to invite all MPs to support all these points of today's agenda, because they are hosting and helping to develop and advance the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16327	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16328	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, today I am going to talk about two additions to the law – the Deposit Insurance Act and the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, which are connected, but also very important at the moment and which speak of the responsibility of our country and its institutions and of adapting to circumstances that we cannot influence. But that's why we can take care of the profitability in every segment. The deposit insurance system for natural persons was introduced in 2005 and the Deposit Insurance Act was last introduced in 2015 on 1 April. The new Deposit Insurance Act should now be complemented because of other conditions created on the international banking market. To remind you, the insurance system covers the following categories of depositors, which are both natural persons, so entrepreneurs, micro-enterprises, small businesses and medium-sized legal entities. The aim of the deposit insurance is to provide depositors with security of roles and contribute to the overall stability of the financial market. In the event of bankruptcy or bank liquidation, the Deposit Insurance Agency must allow quick and simple payment of depositor funds of up to 50,000 euros. What happens now on the international banking market? On the one hand, there is high savings, whose owners do not want to spend or invest, and the demand for loans is quite low. The prospects for profitable investment are quite uncertain, both for banks and for the business sector in the euro area. Deposits as a traditional source of bank funds are practically becoming a high cost of bank operational functioning, and it is no wonder why certain banks in more developed countries have introduced a negative interest rate on savings. The savings are thus practically paid to banks to keep deposits, therefore more so if they are kept at banks with reputation capital and which, by definition, make them more desirable. Although the negative interest rate is a paradox from the position of our present-day thinking and experience, a similar situation existed at the time of the "golden standard", when gold owners paid the banks a security fee. Euribor, who was spoken of by my colleagues as much as yesterday and today, which is in fact an international banking rate and the price that banks offer each other on the international banking market is already a certain time in a negative balance, so that the three-month Eurobor 0.331 is six-month 0,250, which is very low, which is thus down. This will not cause a drastic reduction in interest rates for loans in euro in our country, although loans are now more favourable, largely consist of fixed and variable interest rates, in line with the decision of the European Central Bank that has lowerd the eurobor, in order to encourage the primary development of the European economy and loans in our country are certainly cheaper. All that I have said so far encourages them to save as much as they invest and thus revive economic activity, and in the event that the measures cause deposit instability and future interest growth, they could extract bank systems of developed countries from existing liquidity traps. Many business banks in Europe that have introduced negative interest rates to clients are extremely rare, these are isolated examples, with only business and large corporate deposit clients above certain high levels. In Serbia, there are positive, relatively active interest rates, as the difference between active and passive interest rates, both in dinar and foreign exchange loans, which allows banks to operate profitablely, and therefore the cost of costing sources, compared to the use of funds, cannot be an excuse to consider the introduction of negative interest rates on our market. Also, the National Bank issued a statement where it analyzed all this I'm talking about, and increasing the base of domestic deposits is of crucial importance for financial stability in Serbia which, given the characteristics of our financial system, is certainly more pronounced than the countries whose central banks apply negative interest rates. Negative interest rates on the international environment are not appropriate and are not justified in domestic conditions, nor can they serve as guidelines for the behaviour of domestic banks. With these additions to the law I mentioned, Art. 4 and 7 primarily takes into account the flexibility of asset management, the reduction of the cost of the fund and the positive yield rates on securities of value. Given that the obligation is legal, the currency structure of the fund is 85% in foreign exchange assets is absolutely logical and it is absolutely necessary because our government, the Ministry of Finance, is proposing such an addition of the law at a time like this. The National Bank of Serbia, on its behalf and on behalf of the Agency, is investing mainly in foreign securities of value or depositing them as deposits with foreign banks. However, particularly in these conditions that I have mentioned in the international banking market and in the circumstances of significant changes, the foreign exchange funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund can be invested in foreign debt securities of value. Those securities of value are actually paid at the pre-defined interest rate at a certain point in time, at precisely defined maturity periods, so that there is essentially no risk for those records of values issued by the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank of Serbia. The Funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund shall be invested primarily in maintaining revenue, reducing risk and maintaining the liquidity of the Fund. Fiscal discipline, I would end with this, will certainly affect the improvement of our country's debt rating, which is getting better year by year, and the announced economic growth certainly affects low interest rates. We have a responsible state, responsible Ministry, the National Bank of Serbia that brings real and only possible measures to increasingly open the perspectives of increasing investment and employment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16329	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16330	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will talk about two laws, the first draft of the law on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank, KfW Frankfurt, in May, under the responsibility of the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija Belgrade, project for the modernisation of the "Nikola Tesla A" thermal power plant. In fact, the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed to repay the loan, which is currently 45m euros by the German Development Bank. Also, Elektroprivreda itself invests 10m euros. The total project is 55m euros. What's this about? It is, above all, about the reconstruction of a complete system for collecting, transporting and disposal of ash and slags. So we're dealing with environmentalism. The day will come very soon when we will have to open Chapter 27, and here we are quite thin, as far as our beautiful Serbia is concerned, because in 2012, when we came to power, we found 3,500 dumps. Serbian citizens are making about 2.5 tonnes of waste annually, which is unacceptable. This is one of the steps, the accelerated steps that we need to take quickly, we have not been able to get close to the standards of the European Union. Namely, what's going on? We've done 80% of the projects we've received, as far as wastewaters are concerned, water treatment, and we've earned good credit, we've also got credibility in foreign banks, which is why we're getting these loans. The government and the Ministry of Energy, Mining and the Ministry of Finance should be commended for the conditions we have received. In fact, we're not gonna pay this back for five years, so we're starting to pay back the debt. We return it on exceptional interest, interest is fixed and is 0.8%. This is all about a very good business environment and community service. The second law I will talk about is the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the Electric Network of Serbia, Belgrade, for the Regional Energy Efficiency Programme Project in the Transit System. What's this about? This is about a loan of 15m euros from the German Development Bank, also, the Elektro Network gives ninem euros and we receive a donation from the European Fund for the Western Balkans 6.5m euros. The total value of the project is 30m euros, and I am sure that by replacing the Elektroprivreda Serbia network, there will be no more power shortages, that, as far as environmental science is concerned, we will come to a very enviable level. Speaking of ecologicals, Chapter 27 is waiting very quickly for us and I hope we don't have any difficulty getting into Europe. We are working by all the standards of the European Union and I am sure that in the day of voting all my colleagues, and I, too, will support the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16331	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16332	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers, members of the ministry, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, in the course of the debate, we heard everything that was to be heard, all that was to be said about the draft laws that, at the proposal of the Serbian government, we adopt at this session. I express my satisfaction that your ministries, gentlemen ministers, and especially you, and these bill proposals have shown their domestic relationship, as well as the entire government, in leading the state, which the people obviously recognize. You've seen it in the election. In the first two draft laws, it is clear that there is another way to reduce the costs of the Deposit Insurance Agency, and therefore they are acceptable and, after your opening arguments, I do not think there is any need to further explain. The other two laws are about guarantees provided by the Republic of Serbia to the German Development Bank for loans to EPS and the EMS, which is worth 45m euros in Electricity of Serbia, which improves the protection of the environment in Serbia and loan packages of 15m euros, notingly, with a donation of 6.5m euros for the needs of the Elektro Network of Serbia, for the realisation of the "Transbalkan Corridor" project. These loans are very important for the development of Serbia's energy sector. The EPS credit, whose 12-year maturity, starting in five years, for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has provided guarantees, refers to the financing and modernisation of the ash transport system at the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant. The loan will be used to reconstruct the ash transport system at the largest EPS thermal power plant, and the result will be better air quality, as it will prevent the wind from blowing ash from TENT, and sometimes it will also protect against the pollution of groundwater, the Sava River and land. The loan and donations of the ESM-A will complete the second section of the first phase of the construction of the "Transbalkan Corridor" project, which has four sections in total. It is about a project worth about 30m euros and will, with the support of Germany, be favourably financed by a loan approved by Germany's KfW Development Bank. So it's a project that has a grant or a 6.5m-euro donation provided by the European Union. Without the funds mentioned, the EMS could not finance the "Transbalkan Corridor", which represents a project of huge national regional but also European importance. This "Transbalkan Corridor" on the route, in this case, between Kragujevac and Kraljevska, is a project of enormous importance, of state and regional importance, and the second section of the first phase involves raising the transmission network of central and western Serbia to 400 kilovolt voltage levels, we know that the transmission network of the voltage level is 220 kilovolts, in those parts of Serbia, at the end of its lifetime with an average age of about 50 years, so it is certainly necessary to modernise. From what I've said, it's obvious that I'll accept and suggest that we accept these laws and vote them out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16333	Olivera Ognjanović, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16334	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today we have a set of proposals for extremely important laws, and I will talk about the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Germany's KfW, Frankfurt, in May, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise of Elektroprivreda Serbia in favour of achieving a project to modernise the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant. The fact is that we are making great efforts to reach the level and prove that Serbia is a country that can follow European standards, a country where the government cares about the quality of life of its citizens. To mention the bill will greatly help modernise and standardise one of the most important thermal power plants in Serbia Tent A. This year we had an example of how a sharp winter can lead to a huge increase in the need for thermal energy. However, the increase in coal consumption in power plants has led to an increase in the amount of slag and ash, thus increasing attention is being paid to their reduction and disposal, as well as to the possibility of using the resulting waste. The depositing of any material, including ash and slags, takes place when further use of this material is impossible or when the possibility of its further application has not been seen in detail, as well as the desire to reduce the impact of this waste on the environment and human health. In contact with groundwater and the environment, micro-elements reach the natural water system. By entering the cycle of water movement, they affect both the plant and animal world and man. In particular, it is dangerous that the dump is located not far from the Sava River, and the possibility of reaching harmful micro-elements in the river is increased. Ash is free material that can be used to replace other materials, protecting the environment and reducing the exploitation of these materials. By removing, i.e. by applying modern technology that will be applied to the transport and storage of ash and slags from the dumps, it affects the conservation of the environment. Also, there is financial savings, because thermal power plants don't have to pay taxes on the name of a waste dump. So far, we have an example of the "Nikola Tesla B" Termopower Plant where an ash collection, transport and disposal system was installed in 2012. The application of this new technology system prevents the dispersion of ash with 400 hectares of dumps and ten times reduces the amount of water for transporting ash, thereby permanently halting the pollution of groundwater. The current use of ash and slag in Serbia is controversial and unplanned, mostly in cement production. So, two moments are the most important in this bill, which is the necessity of modernising the thermopower system to fight pollution. Modernising transport, ash and slag is a technological solution that increases air, water and land protection and achieves European environmental standards. In order to say famous world scientist, environmentalist, Gay McPherson – if you really think the problem of pollution is less important than the economy, try not to breathe while counting money. That is why I find it absolutely necessary to work further on modernization, and above all on protecting the environment and all of us from dangerous substances. I will fully support the bill that will allow for the modernisation of THE ‘Nikola Tesla A’. I don't think we should stop here, because I think further transition of our energy sector is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16335	Thank you. The word is by MP Marko Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16336	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the modernisation of the system for impeachment at TE "A" has more benefits. One of the benefits that is essential is environmental protection and environmental protection around the thermal power plant and the Obrenovac municipality, and the other is for reducing the cost of disposal of ash to TE “A”. This means reducing costs essentially for the EPS. The project is worth around 55m euros, 45m will withdraw from KFW Germany's bank, and the rest will be financed from its funds. The credit is very favourable 0.8% on an annual basis, unlike some of the loans that previous authorities took and owed to the state from five to eight percent on an annual basis. This one's great. Grace's loan period is five years. This means that the payment will start from 2022 and the tranche will not exceed 200,000 euros. As a matter of fact, whoever worked in the economy used to work and was seriously involved in finance knows that all major projects are always funded from very good credits. They're never serviced from cash, cash is always used for crafts in companies, and whoever knows that would never criticise this way of funding basic assets and investing in new systems. Basically, so we can see here what the EPS is like today and what the EPS was like, we're going to do an EPS parallel from 2000-2012 and the EPS from 2012-2017. Since 2000-2012, we have an EPS that controlled some other government, then, whose representatives are present here. We're having various affairs in that period. One of the affairs is an affair around machines where they worked for 25 hours. Also, 75% of the machines were then rented on Colubary Spears that worked for 25 hours. So they weren't owned by the EPS. Most of these machines were also owned by various politicians from the previous government. There were also large affairs surrounding the theft of fuel. Many directors and representatives of the previous government were involved in these affairs. Also, an affair over the expropriation of land directly involved by the DS, as the director was then from the DS ranks at the head of the kopov. A classic example, a Kenneth house estimated at two and a half million euros, in the third zone of expropriation envisioned only for 30 years, the first war was paid 1 million and 250,000 euros. Of course, everything was stopped by the arrival of the new director of Greece. The old director's been processed and he's been held in custody. The same director who was processed and ended up in custody was the DS, when the government's shadow rules planned to appoint him as the energy minister. So we can immediately see what kind of personnel would be run by that ministry, and as far as the ministry would come today, the state of Serbia. Also, the other side since 2012-2017, we can say that the renaissance of the EPS, the SNS is coming to power, there is a systematicisation of the EPS in general. The largest company, but now it's all the central system, it was Kopo's Colubarian, comes Milorad Grcic, he then stabilises coal production, solves the problem of expropriation, which is also inherited by DS directors. That problem was very big because one part of the Hot One, i.e. More specifically, there was no expropriation for the Hot Cemetery and no new field could be opened and it directly threatened the stability of the energy system. Mr. Grcic solved the problem in the Vreocs and the new field is open. Also, the very important thing in that period is that the "Cola Metal" released by the past government has been saved from the EPS system, and it is very important for the company as regards EPS, because "Colabar Metal" is the largest machine working centre in the Balkans and all the machines working on spears, i.e. More specifically, the rodents, which dig coal, “Colabara Metal” remounts and make parts for these same rodents. Three and a half thousand workers could have lost their jobs. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and the director of the Greek firm were rescued, it was inserted into the EPS system and later proved to be a very good move. Also, one of the major savings items was made when fuel theft was reduced in the Colubara. The 2014 flood, unfortunately, because of the preserved "Colabar Metal" had a less negative impact than it could have. The stored "Colabara Metal" was then remounted by rodents who were flooded. Since foreign experts have assessed the recovery of the flood spears, that it will last for one three years, essentially to remind all of you here, the Kopes have poured out the Kolubara River and 320 million cc's of water, in six months all the water has been pumped out. The machines have been repaired and the power system has remained stable and electricity production in the Republic of Serbia has not been disrupted. We must also point out, since 2000-2012, no prime minister has ever come to the nettles or visited any EPS production system. Alexander Vukic visited the nettle unions five times. Even one government session was held on spears. So we can immediately see the concerns of this government and the prime minister about the electricity system and the state at all. We can also say that from 2000-2014 a new copy of Radljevo was opened, we can again thank the prime minister's engagement, the appointment of then-President of the Municipality of Darko Glisic and Milorad Grcic. So, in the future, the new copy of Radljevo will ensure a stable supply of TE "A" and "B" coal and maintaining the stability of the electricity system. Basically, we can say, by May 17th this year, 10 million tons of coal have been dug up. We have over 600,000 tons of coal at the dumps of the power plant "A" and "B", with constant loading of the dumps. Also, we can say one thing, that last year the EPS had a projected loss, and essentially the year ended with 100 million wins. You have 500m euros in your EPS account, and previous authorities have been taking loans to pay people their salaries. We can also say that this winter the electrical stability of the system was maintained and there was less system failure in Serbia than in Germany. We can also say that we are no longer importing electricity, but we are exporting electricity and in electricity trade EPS has earned almost 70m euros in last and this year. Also, I must commend Minister Antić and the knowledge that Minister Antic is not supposed to work every week, when he is supposed to have a day off, visiting with the EPS plant director. Last week he paid a more accurate visit to a scrap and loading station in Tamnava, and then he was at plant A. Basically SNS policy headed by Aleksandra Vukic is a policy of gain. This policy, by applying to all sectors, to EPS sectors, to Telekom, to the construction sector, also to new buildings are being built, we get new jobs, new highways, hospitals are being renovated, kindergartens are being built, it's a state-run policy, and the people recognized that policy, and in the first round, they supported it by 56%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16337	Is the People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo here? No, I don't. Enis Imamovic? You don't want a word. Ivan Bauer, but just a moment to hear the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you get ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16338	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising Article 106. – the speaker can speak only of the agenda point, not of attacking Mr. Petar Skundric, Minister from 2008 to 2012, that he did nothing in the energy portfolio. So, here, since the Socialists are silent, I am to defend their minister whom the previous speaker attacked and did not stick to the topic of the agenda. It would be like if I were to ask Minister Vujovic now where 400,000 euros from... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16339	You're a disfellowshipped MP, because you abuse the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure. Since there's no one of yours in the O.R. anyway, I'm not gonna take two minutes away from you. (National MP Radoslav Milojic throws out of place. Don't yell, it's not nice. (Radoslav Milojic): It would be like... Yes, it would be like everyone standing up and yelling at the chairman. The vice president told me that the speaker didn't come out of the topic at all, and Petar Skundric, don't worry about him, he'll defend himself. She didn't ask the SPS for you to be their lawyer, they have their attorney in the front row. (Radoslav Milojic: What about the attack on DS? The word is Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16340	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support all four proposed laws we are discussing yesterday and today. In this part of the debate, I will refer to these two laws, which, I say, defends the Vujovic ministers. It is the additions of the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and the additions of the Deposit Insurance Act. As we agreed yesterday, Minister, it is a subject that is more complex than it looks at first glance, because only two members are changing in these two laws, or one position is added to these two members. It would be said that it's a cosmetic shift, under the circumstances, that someone doesn't take me wrong. However, as I said, the problem is far more complex and, in order to understand it, we have to go back a few years and then, historically, look at the whole situation and see what made it very important to make these two additions to the law at this point. The object of these two laws is to enable a greater diversification of the funds in the portfolio of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The Deposit Insurance Fund is not a legal person, it performs its function within the Deposit Insurance Agency, which performs business on its behalf and for its account, and one part of these transactions is carried out by the NBS in accordance with its guidelines. I say, some past events need to be reminded to fully understand why it is important to make these changes, or additions that we are talking about today. Just a few years ago, the Deposit Insurance Fund was completely emptied due to known developments in Agrobanka, Universal Bank and other banks that were brought to ruin. At that time, the state was forced to take credit from the World Bank to, I say, fill this fund, or to make savings safe, because the Deposit Insurance Fund is right and has this role to make savings safe, or to restore trust, which we have been working on for years, saving in our banking system, in which we seem to have done quite well. In addition to this loan taken from the World Bank, we have one loan, so to speak, in the reserve, as you said yesterday, from the IBRD that will be withdrawn in case there is any need for additional funds. That's the answer to the question that was asked yesterday, and that's what if we now have a part of the foreign currency assets that we have invested in some long-term securities of value, or foreign debt charters of the value of the Republic of Serbia? Well, even if there was an event, which they said would be almost impossible, if they had to withdraw funds from the Deposit Insurance Fund, it would say that some banks fail, then we can withdraw this loan back that we have and solve that problem in that way, because, of course, overnight, it's impossible to sell securities of value. So, as I said, the state took these loans, and then, of course, the Fund made inflows of funds on the basis of a regular deposit guarantee premium that banks, in accordance with the law and other acts, pay quarterlyly and according to the available reports of those commitments, regularly. In this way, we have increased this level of funding over the past few years and it has reached around 310m euros in total. So I'm also talking about funds denominated in foreign currency and denominated in domestic currency. Of these, about 85%, or about 260m euros, were allocated in foreign currency, and the rest of the 15% was denominated in domestic currency, which is about seven billion dinars. Therefore, it is clear from this that the key to the positive functioning of the Deposit Insurance Fund is, in fact, the placement of these funds that are denominated in foreign currency. This is why we are facing the problem in the last year and a little over a year, because somewhere since the first quarter of 2016, the interest rate on deposits in foreign banks, and I am talking about foreign banks qualified under very strict rules that the NBS has to manage foreign reserves, qualify to invest in them. It's mostly big banks, as you said yesterday, and big banks that have so-called banks. ‘Triple rating’, or ‘AA rating’. So, from the end of the first quarter, these banks have been accounting for a negative interest rate on deposits, and since April 2015 that interest rate has been 0%. So, in the last year and a few days, we're investing at a negative interest rate, or we're losing on the basis of these investments, or depositing these funds into foreign banks. For example, for the sake of illustration, in the first quarter of 2017 this rate was -0.7%. It's not exactly the negligible loss that we're making on this basis. At the same time, I am talking about foreign securities of value, which meet the criteria of the National Investment Bank, i.e. the investment of funds in them, also have negative contributions. So, unlike the interest rates of foreign banks on depositing funds and securities from foreign values in which we can invest funds, and of course we are talking about the most qualitative and the most relevant financial institutions in the world and financial instruments, our interest rates, or interest rates in Serbia, are positive. As an example, I will list only a few last auctions held in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to foreign debt securities. For example, on 20 March 2017, an auction was held of fifty three weeks of foreign currency records of the Republic of Serbia and an interest rate of 0.74% was reached. In February, there was an auction of two-year records at which the interest rate was 1.05%. Somewhere in the second half of April was a three-year record auction where the interest rate was 1.89%. It seems to me that on the five-year record, the last time was 2.85%, you'll correct me if I was wrong in this last decimal, and on the ten-year records 4%. So we have all the positive interest rates records. Instead of achieving losses based on depositing our funds to foreign banks or investing in foreign securities of value, we allow these two laws to be changed to make a profit on this basis. It's important to say, what the minister mentioned yesterday and I'd like to confirm, the law allows us to invest these assets in domestic securities of value, of course, denominated in foreign currency rather than commitment. So no one is obliged to invest these funds in domestic securities of value, but that possibility exists, of course, in line with the estimates carried out by the Deposit Insurance Agency, the National Bank of Serbia, the funds will be properly placed. I should not stress that the foreign exchange records issued by the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia are risk-free. We are mainly talking about charters of the value of the Republic of Serbia because the National Bank of Serbia in 2016 and 2017 did not broadcast foreign exchange records of value, so at this point there is the possibility of investing exclusively in securities from the value of the Republic of Serbia. In order to make it absolutely clear to the citizens what I'm talking about, I'm just going to give an example of how much loss has been achieved in 2016 based on this investment of funds in a foreign bank, or if something has been invested in securities of value. Thus, the expenditure incurred based on the investment of these funds abroad, i.e. on the basis of inoplasins, was 572,000 euros in 2016. So we're facing one here, that's already more colleagues using that word, the paradoxical situation. We're talking about the Deposit Insurance Fund. It's logical that this fund increases its resources. It, however, increases them thanks to the inflow from banks, but it reduces them based on negative interest rates and based on the interest rate we pay on these funds that we withdrew from the World Bank, and that's the paradox. It's not, of course, a financially unsustainable situation, but it is a logically unsustainable situation for us to lose our deposits at the Deposit Insurance Fund, that he's doing negative business, which happened in 2016. So unless we pass this law or vote it next week, in 2017 we will achieve a missed profit of 22,000 euros. This returns, essentially, in a certain way every citizen of the Republic through a budget from which these funds must be compensated in a certain way. This missed profit means what we would achieve by placing these funds into domestic charters of value minus loss with a negative sign, of course, which would be achieved by placing those assets into foreign securities of value, i.e. in foreign banks. In order to fully justify the agreed duration of this law, we need to know, and these are the evaluations of experts, that the interest rates in the EU, or in the euro area, to be fully accurate, will only be recovered somewhere in 2018, and that only in 2019 will it be possible to make positive contributions to the placement of funds beyond our borders. So what we've done, this change we've made, in which it's clearly said that these assets can be invested in domestic securities of value, as long as we meet the condition that there are negative interest rates abroad, is quite justified, because for at least the next two years we're going to make a profit, instead of having missed profits or losses, whatever you want. The Deposit Insurance Fund, of course, is not a profitable organisation, but that doesn't mean that it needs to deal with the loss or that it has missed profits, on the contrary, it needs to achieve a positive, say, business. Because with this positive business, we are able to preserve the substance of the fund and make savings safer. Notice, this is not just about saving citizens, which is of course very important, but about saving entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are the driver of every economy. So this is how we send a message on the stability of the financial system, on the security of savings and thus, of course, we promote that this savings is growing, which is very important for any investment cycle in the future. Of course, by changing these two laws, and the positive effects on the budget, it is not controversial, but it was not the primary intensity of changing these two laws, but rather, to care about savings, or savings. Finally, let me conclude, so I will continue in the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, that these two laws, if we don't change, I think that would be extremely irresponsible behavior on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16341	The word is Alexander Stevanović. The word has Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16342	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, I would like to commend those proposals that we have on the agenda today, to say that I will support all points of the agenda in the voting day. What I want to point out is that this government and the finance minister are doing absolutely good things for our country. That's what the citizens confirmed in the previous elections. What we are talking about today is this 15 million loan in order to achieve a project to modernise the energy network in Serbia. These are very important things for all of our citizens, for life's things, something that makes every man's everyday life in Serbia. Yesterday I had a chance to talk to 20 citizens who came to talk and they all followed the session we had yesterday in the Serbian Parliament. People are simply surprised that someone has the right to criticise the borrowing we approached yesterday in this debate, but we also heard from someone who is a bad friend. Right, but then when you take green interest, when the interest is eight and more percent, when you leave people out on the street without a job, then when the EPS, say, in 2010, raises more than 20% of the price of electricity and loses more than 20 billion dinars. Now, that's what's an example of how no public enterprise can be run in Serbia anymore. We had a situation, sometimes all public enterprises were absolute losers. Today, the EPS earns profits and profits. As some people see the future of public enterprises, we can also see how they led them. Where was Serbia until 2012 and where is it today 2017? These are very clear facts that speak of it. In Serbia, by 2012, the truth was being built, but only on the tycoon, politician and favorites of those who were with the regime at the time. There was no cranes, there was no work, there was no investors, there was nothing in this country, there was just chaos and robbery. It's best known in Smederjevska Palanca how it was, you know who has villas, you know who has expensive cars, you know who has watches of tens of thousands of euros, you know. But what is important, we will continue to work, to develop our energy system, to improve the energy network, to modernise, to make everyday life easier for citizens, to improve their living conditions, to employ people, to attract new investments. The growth by 2012, I return to that period again, was constant, but only in the foreign exchange accounts of those who then led Serbia. Where Serbia came into what they say is the golden age of democracy, I like to say it, during those rulers. We had 25% unemployment. These are the experts who were at the time leading Serbia, who are laughing at it, because it makes them happy when unemployment is high in Serbia, their partner staff were 100 per cent at the time. Corruption and crime erupted in Serbia. The tycoons led Serbia, and today the tycoons are responding to domestic justice. The EPS absolutely touched the bottom at the time of the previous regime's government. Serbia was one step towards bankruptcy. Never in its history has Serbia stood so badly economically. Today, unemployment has been reduced from 25% to 13% in Serbia. Today, we are no longer in debt with 8%, and this is what these latest loans we take to develop Serbia's Elektro Network and to "Nikola Tesla" of 0.8% interest. Today Serbia is absolutely building, working, moving forward, its citizens are working, tycoons are not working. That's what matters. Factorys are being opened, over 55 factories opened in the Republic of Serbia for four years. How long has it been open before? Someone's talking here, full of the mouths of Europe, so how many chapters have some opened and closed you up. Zero, absolute zeroes in the chapters, and minus in Serbia's citizens' accounts, minus in Serbia's till 2012. Today we are going forward, citizens support it, full support and Minister Vujovic and Minister Antić and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic in that job they work for Serbia [[Radoslav Milojic: Please, replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16343	You're in this discussion who? (Radoslav Milojic: So did you hear all this? An hour, a house? No, I don't. The word is Zoran Radojićic. (Radoslav Milojic: Then according to the Rules of Procedure.) ) Zoran Radojićic means he is not here. Is Vladimir Djuric there? Here you go. Please, no guesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16344	The MP group Enough was welcoming the EPS investment, we believe they are needed, we believe they are overly necessary. We saw it the other day in Colubara, on May 15th, there was a huge damage on the pager and we have photos and I hope no one gets hurt. So, five years ago, we knew that it was a Colubare mission to regularly supply coal thermoelectric power plants, that on our largest coal-free field and that we needed new spears. For this first thing, we need to secure the funds, become landowners, and solve the infrastructure, provide equipment for new spears, so that we have to remove part of the Ibar highway, save the flow of the Pestan River. That it is necessary to invest 140m to 150m euros annually in Kolubar and that the cycle of opening a new dig is about 20 years in the west. It's not the same as opening a traffic light, a bike store or a garden fence at the Home Army in Novi Sad. Today, five years later, it seems that we're not very far away from it, unlike Kolubara seems unable to invest from her own sources anymore. We're not open fields Hots, Big Blacks, and in fields B and D there's no gap removed. The Kolubara mission to produce 28 to 30 million tonnes of coal per year is now at risk. We understand the minister that fields E, G and Radiljevo are in preparation and that 250m euros in investments reportedly provided by the EPS from the current business are needed, but that is consistent with the prime minister's statement he made for May 1st that the government will invest that money. I mean, the government doesn't have that money, it's citizens' money and businesses that pay into the budget, so it should be careful and accurate and honest in the statements. We would not like another government, another prime minister and minister to announce again that there is only one river to be moved, a few villages, power lines, a part of the Ibar highway, as if it were bicycle bracelets. So the investments are necessary and we welcome them, but it is a controversial financing of loans with state guarantees. It's better than it's from the budget, but it's worse than it's from its own sources. We don't have an agreement. We don't know exactly what's planned in these projects. In accordance with Article 61 of The Law on Public Enterprises, a public undertaking in need of guarantees, is required to present to them a special programme with the intention and dynamics of using these funds. It would be nice to have that information publicly available, because it's a guarantee of public money and that's why it's a public interest to know. In this way, we remain to believe that the guarantee is given for the most modern technologies that will contribute to the conservation of the environment and that the project will be successfully realised. All in word, and in fact we learn from the media some other things, that we are late with new spears, that production in the EPS has been dropping since the beginning of the year due to a lack of coal, in January 277, in February 457, in March 827 million kilowatts of hours and frapantic 22.9% less electricity. That's what you were talking about yesterday. This can't be due to historically cold January, because the fall actually started in December. Also, we find that this has caused damage in terms of the benefits that can be measured to some 300m euros that the current has been produced and exported or 370m euros that the current has been made and sold to households with single-tariff numbers. We also find out from the media that we have about a quarter of an affair in the EPS. A tender about pumping water from Kolubara, adding decimals to the price of electricity, increased December bills that were after the irons, and God knows that because it was obvious that the reading day was missed, so I don't know how the final state of the EPS took the citizens more. Nevertheless, we need to believe the word without any insight into the concrete agreements that these guarantees will remain off-line and that the public money will not be returned. The EPS is a potentially big problem because last year it contributed to this budget with 87.4 billion dinars, so every twelveth dinar. Anything they don't produce will have to be imported and it'll put pressure on the dinar course. Why are we forcing the EPS to pay 50% of the profits to the budget, which in 2015 and 2016 was over 12 billion dinars if, as the prime minister and president said, the government will fund it. So he gives money to the budget, then takes back from the budget, with 250m euros in investment, the prime minister said the government would invest. Finally, let's see alternative sources of money for EPS. Debtants, only RTB Bor Group owes 67m euros for electricity on 10 March 2017. This is the data from the EPS site. The project we give a guarantee for, 45, RTB owes 67, comparisons for. This is the result of politics, i.e. the lack of political will, to bring order into the public sector. This is the result of the care of a local sheriff in RTB Bor who makes party posters beautiful on private property, so when the owner of this private property opposes, he says – sees how ugly you are, I will throw you on the phone, because he is allowed not to hesitate in front of television cameras either. He holds the Bor ruling majority and delivers it from election to election, and that is why it is tolerated for him to go bankrupt after the RTB Bor investment cycle, in an attempt to save himself from bankruptcy. I also have to ask, what's harder to charge for RTB Bora electricity or bring down illegal construction in New Market. In addition, Jelizara Smederevo, 38m euros in debt, the successful sale of debt-sold ironworks that remained on the back of Serbia's taxpayers. Railways, 21m euros, with 67 RTB Bora is a total of 126m euros, from the three EPS debtors on 10 March 2017. In addition to this, the EPS performance, we have here on the diagram shown, the growth of total revenues, contrary to the growth of long-term reserves and liabilities, EPS and ESM. So there is a trend for both companies to grow their commitments much faster than income. So you can see this diversion, so this is a growth in liabilities, and this is a growth in income that is much lighter. In essence, EPS is a problem that can cost us a lot if party staffing continues, if production is continued, by draining dried spears and raptures have already worn out equipment and insisting on profitability and budgeting to praise the reduced budget deficit rather than investing in the EPS and to open new nets. So it's an EPS policy issue. Otherwise, as far as investments themselves are concerned, they are, of course, necessary and not controversial. The conditions set out in the reasons for the proposed laws, interest rates and everything else, that is, of course, fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16345	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16346	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank, of course, the MPs: Bojanić, Manojlovich, Mrs Natasha St. Jovanovic, if I understand correctly, Ljiljani Malusic, Zvonimir Djokic, Marko Gavrilovic, Mr Bauer, Filipovic, supported these legal solutions and the fact that they supported the importance of these investments in the energy sector above all. I would also like to comment on some of my fellow Đurić's allegations that he has shown to a good degree the high degree of knowledge of the problems we face in Kolubara, but to some extent, before I comment on it, I would have to make my differences. So 22% reduction in March, not the whole quarter. In the entire quarter there was a 14% reduction compared to one of the largest productions in 2016. If we looked at it compared to some years earlier, it was even more productive in many years since 2001. I repeat, what I said yesterday from the beginning, in just over a year, because we have to have some time intervals, we can't draw conclusions from one month, one day or so. So, in just over the last year, the EPS has been on the electricity trade, so imports-exports have earned 30m euros. You're right that in the first three months, because we didn't have a planned production, we had some imports. We didn't hide that import, it's an import for 47m euros, but tie up MPs 47m euros when we import, it can't be worth 300m if we export it, so let's just take full care of the data. So this unproduced amount of energy we needed would cost about 40m euros, or worth 40m euros. It wouldn't be worth 300 even if they sold it to the citizens in one tariff number. It could be worth 300 if they sold to consumers in Denmark or Germany. But not in Serbia. That's one thing. Second thing, RTB, I want to comment on these few creditors. First of all, I want to point out that we have put serious order into charge. We've raised the charge by over 95%. At the moment I came for the minister, the charge was catastrophic, first of all, in the economy, first of all with the company in restructuring, and that was symbolic. Today, this bill is also very serious. At this point, we may have one, two problems, and none of the problems that you've listed are, above all, the problem with Resavica, which does not pay for electricity and which has an increase in its debt. If you watched closely, we publish every month on the EPS site and on the Serbian site the debt situation of 20 biggest debtors, and you will see that most of them have a decrease in their debt since the beginning of the year. Both RTB and other top debtors including the Serbian Railways. So that's our policy. So, pay up, that's historic debt. Pay the current obligation and reduce the old debt because about 20 of the largest majority just like this works. RTB Bor is in UPPR he has all the obligations for electricity and has current invoices and has a regular peace of mind. You can see from Table 2017 that RTB reduced debt from 31 December 2016. When it comes to "Hestil", it means the new owner of the ironworks, from the moment he took over all his duties regularly calms down. What's being held as a debt of Irony Smederevo is the historical debt that has remained uncovered. The new owner did not take over our old debt from 2003, for example, nor did it make sense. I told the railroads -- railroads, pay your current debts and cut debts, and we also don't have any problem. And get back to that essential question, Kolubara. First, absolutely 250m euros, or 31 billion euros, are investment and maintenance funds that go from the EPS account for these projects and jobs in Kolubara. Because the prime minister absolutely said it. He said we approved 250m euros to invest in Kolubara. From EPS funds, no one mentioned it would be from the Republic of Serbia's budget from taxpayers. So how are you people? Why would they do that when we have planned and planned funds, which we have ordered the EPS leadership to do a maximum effort in 2017 to spend these funds. And we're doing more things right now. We ended up on the Audit Committee project documentation for the transfer of the Ibar highway, at a length of 7.4 kilometers. We finished, we got on the Audit Committee all the documentation to move the River Peštan, and parallel to that movement of the Vreoci road – Kruševica. These three key infrastructure projects allow us to enter two of our three priorities. It's field E, field G and radio. With all these resources, with the purchase of additional equipment we, already in 2017, start with more serious activities and already mining activities in fields E and G, and already in 2017 we enter with the first system in Polje Radljevo, the construction of stations and everything else we need. We enter with the first detection system in 2018 and the acquisition of a serious system for production on Radljevo, which is capitalal for the future of Kolubara, because it needs tomorrow, that is, four years from now, the replacement spear, instead of the Dark West Field.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16347	Thank you. We don't have much of a basis for replication, but come on in. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16348	Thank you. The minister tells me... I thank you directly, I've been mentioned. Ibarska, Hots and so on, so why not now after five years. We knew that five years ago. Okay, out of the benefit of unmanaged electricity, it doesn't have to be 300 or 370m euros, let's say 47, as much as you say is compensated from imports. The project now to be credited weighs 45m euros, purely for comparison. One more remark, it's management business, not ministries. So, I respect your finding that the bill was fixed when you came as minister, so you said. I would prefer that public enterprises are arranged so that management is primarily in charge of payment, not executive power, otherwise we don't need management, then the government is the manager in all public enterprises, one and only. With regard to improving the billing of tables, the increase in debt in 2016, RTB Bor, in 2016 alone, had a 32m-euro increase, so here are three items, this is the EPS table, but okay, if you say that the charge is fixed we can also check it on the EPS website. Once again, so the 38m-euro debt of Jelizara Smederevo, despite the most successful sale of Jelizara Smederevo in the history of the Serbian economy, remained 38m euros in debt to Jelizara, on the back of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16349	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milomir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16350	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, here today and yesterday in front of us a set of laws and decisions, of course all important for the daily life of Serbian citizens, I will look at this exhibition, first of all on two, and it concerns credit lines for enterprises in the field of energy and guarantees proposed by this law to be given by the Republic of Serbia to the German Development Bank. Namely, when it comes to this first one, the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to the German Development Bank for the responsibility of the Power Network of Serbia, and above all regarding the energy efficiency programme. I think Minister Antic presented in the opening part yesterday a broader vision of the programme and it is very clear that it is a programme connecting Eastern European markets with the Western and this programme itself makes Serbia part of the joint programme somewhere. To be in the company of a wider community, I think it's both important for the state and society, in general, and so on. However, what I have noticed is simply this example of the symbolism of what we have in political terms these days. Namely, as we are now becoming a link between the East and the West when it comes to energy, we are witnessing the participation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the prime minister, at a forum in China. A great honor and great respect from the Eastern partners for representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, while co-operation with, let me say, the representatives of the so-called so-called. The Western world. I think the comparison with this is completely adequate and, in fact, it is an image and opportunity of what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing today in a political sense. A small country, obviously, but as in this programme, opens up the possibility of co-operation with all partners both in the east and west. It thus positions itself as a potential leader in the region, in one case leaders in the realisation of infrastructure projects, peace promotion leaders and political stability in the region, and in another as leaders in the field of electricity. This must certainly have an impact on the overall social economic environment. Looking strictly from this financial aspect, I think it's clear that in a 0.8% interest contract is something that is favourable, given the overall situation in the financial markets. What is important, for the sake of Serbia's citizens who are looking at this, is that some MPs tried yesterday to present the thesis and determine the the thesis under which the Government of the Republic of Serbia owes its citizens with this loan, on the contrary, I must say that it is not, purely for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. In this contract, there is a Article 4 which clearly defines that if the "Electro Network of Serbia" does not regularly settle its obligations, the guarantee is guaranteed. The Republic of Serbia, in this case, can automatically initiate payment from the "Electro Network of Serbia" account. In technical terms, it is clear that the realization of this programme involves someone lower to a higher voltage level, which certainly contributes to some serious energy progress. As for the second law, which I will also, in short, address the guarantees of the Republic of Serbia today, and also for the benefit of the German Development Bank. It is about modernising the system for impregnating TE “Nikola Tesla”. I think, like this one energy step, this is about one serious ecological step. The best things to say about it are the inhabitants of Obrenovac and in any case something to praise, when it comes to "Electroprivreda", but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Just to be clear, it's one serious job ahead of us all. It is the storage, i.e. the collection and storage of ash in silos, after which, of its adequate treatment and disposal to the intended landfills. And in this contract, there is a Article 4 that clearly defines that citizens of Serbia cannot bear in any way the financial risk of not returning this loan, so that it also wastes the tendency for Serbian citizens to become more in charge in this way. However, we heard yesterday, also, from some MPs, who I guess, trying to get into this parliament, were ready to change both religion and nation and party and God knows what is not, that it is a light preparation for the privatisation of the EPS. In fact, it's just for the citizens of Serbia, you know, it's about modernization and domestic governance in the EPS. However, respected ministers and respected government representatives, whatever you do, if you do domestically and modernize the system, then you prepare it for sale, and if you do nothing, then you are unemployed. I think the people are the best judges. The people understood that, and occasionally in the election, the team and such political representatives sent a clear message. The message in April was very clear and convincing. I also think the message in this House when it comes to these bill proposals will be clear, and with that, here is my smallness as a MP, in the end, to add that in the day of the vote, I will support the proposed legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16351	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16352	Thank you. I wanted to say a few words about the loan for which the EPS will receive guarantees from the Republic of Serbia, or from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is paid by taxpayers, or all citizens of this country. So it's a loan guarantee, not a loan itself. To explain to those who may be less guided, the state does not lend credit, some other institution gives credit. It's about the German bank. The state guarantees that unless the EPS repays the loan, it will be compensated from the Republic of Serbia's budget for taxpayers' money. This is a direct question for the finance minister because he's the one who cares about taxpayers' money. I have here some data based on the Ministry of Finance's data published in a study of the parliamentary budget office, which shows us from 2012 to 2016 that the activated guarantees are moving. So these are the guarantees that we give mainly to public enterprises for some of our own needs. For example, in 2012 activated guarantees of 3.7 billion dinars, and then growing, growing, growing, and in 2016 39.1 billion dinars. So the trend is to make the guarantees that are given more and more activate. It is a trend and it should be for you, Mr. Minister, to worry a little more than any citizen of this country who participates in funding, or in giving these guarantees, because you are the first to be legally responsible for how this money is spent and who are actually given these guarantees. I'm going to remind you of a few details that represent facts, which is that about a year and a half or two days ago the government announced that there will be no more guarantees to public enterprises, that with this practice it will be interrupted, because it was seen that the trend is such that when you give someone a guarantee, it's as if you threw money in a well without a bottom. It's part of something that you, Mr. Minister, certainly know, because you're an economist, it's called moral gambling, when someone knows that any wrong business decision he makes, let's say, in taking a loan, and then misinvesting it and making the wrong decision in any way and failing to repay that loan, if he knows that there's someone who's going to cover that loss, he won't even bother to make a big effort to get that gutter well-founded and to make a good living. So today we give a guarantee to a state-owned company that is very important, that should exist and that should exist in public hands, that is, in state-owned hands, which are making bigger and bigger losses year by year, that is, making bigger and bigger debts, while, on the other hand, business revenues, from which these debts could be financed, remain less, more and more the same. I have a chart here. A little while ago, Djuric showed this and the Energy Minister would also ask if he could respond, since he had not responded, I don't know if the camera can catch it, but, as you can see, here these real lines are the revenues of the EPS from 2012 to 2015, and these are the obligations. Obligations grow, income rises, and incomes remain the same. Now the obligations are far above income. I don't want to go into numbers, not to harass the viewers here, but we're giving money to the company, and we don't know why in the last three or four years, I don't have any data for 2016, this company is making far more losses than the income it's capable of doing. Could one, for example, comment on that? The second fact, since 2013, the current elected president, still active prime minister, and then the first Deputy Prime Minister, mentions once a year that he is very angry with the directors of public enterprises because he is making losses and that he will replace them all from that position. He even broke the doorknob in his office once because he was so angry and constantly made such promises at least once a year. The media's passing it on, everyone's expecting it, but there's no such shifts. They remain directors of public enterprises in those places they have been, although they are constantly making losses. He replaced, however, one last year, the director of "Electroprived Serbia", because he said he did not exactly adhere to the government's austerity measures imposed by the government. Do you know exactly what the reason was? Well, he bought a man past plan two very expensive cars, really. And that's some kind of financial waste that everybody needs to be worried about. However, looking at things, looking at the debt the EPS has been making over the past few years, which cannot return, that is, to the state's money through the guarantees we give, it seems to me that it was the replacement of the director because he unauthorizedly bought a box of chewing gum, although, for example, every month, that is, every day goes to the casino and spends a lot of money there. That's why he wasn't removed. That's why he bought two cars. The current director, who has relatively unknown and in information unverified biography, has been there for a little more than a year and was angry with him for making the debt, but has not changed it to this day. What do you think it's about? Not that he hasn't replaced him, but now he's sending you, Mr. Minister, and the other Mr. Minister, to convince us here that we should lend credit to the same company run by the current executive, who made this huge debt that the EPS now has. In 2016, for example, due to unpaid obligations to EPS and "Srbigas", various local self-government, state-owned enterprises, other companies that have mixed ownership, accumulated debt in "Srbigas" and EPS around 160m euros. We don't know anything how it's possible. You're not telling us anything about how it's possible. We would like, of course, to support the modernisation of all public enterprises, it is not at all controversial, but we would ask that if you can now, and if not now, then some other time, when you come to ask for approval for this big money, for such a large guarantee, explain to the MPs what the situation in the companies that we have to guarantee these debts is. Why doesn't the company only have enough resources to finance this investment? Well, there's not enough funding because, say, RTB Bor made a 30m-euro debt, so then "Politika", the PKK, "Resavica", "Jumko", "Industry of Rakovica", which is why these companies tolerate not paying for electricity? If all these companies had paid for electricity in time, the EPS itself would have had enough resources to guarantee this debt. You don't tell us anything about it, and that's the data we're interested in. We are not experts at this, except maybe some individuals here, but we are not experts in knowing all these techniques, details and exactly what this money will go to in terms of modernising the EPS. That's what people who work there, not even experts, and that's not the discussion that needs to go to most of this debate. But as the taxpayers' money is spent, we need to talk about it, because we are representatives of these taxpayers in this assembly. I hope to get some answers, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16353	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16354	Thank you. I'll let my colleague Antic answer to the part, that is, to repeat the part where he explained why this particular project is a very good project and a necessary project. This seduction is a project that is first approaching the respect of widely adopted standards in the protection of the natural environment and respect for the ecological standards that Europe expects and that is in our interest rather than imposed on the sides. Secondly, the majority of both electricity and land and long-term projects finance from long-term sources, quality subsidized sources. This is the source. KFW is the Development Bank which lends loans at the subsidized rates. If you were to calculate the so-called grant element, the gift element, by returning the commercial interest rate from this loan to the current value, it seems to me, about 50% – 60%. My guess is that the professionals who proposed this project on our part and in KFW who approved this did their job right. Assuming that, I think this is a good decision. It is vital that we always keep in mind what situation we are in and what opportunities we have. We only have two options here, one is not to accept this funding of KFW or accept it. There's always that, KFW, that's all it can be, there's no third option. As far as these examples are concerned, it may have something to do with your thinking, but all those things that happened, none of them happened to the EPS and none of them happened to KFW. Therefore, to draw a conclusion from there, we are about you quoting and reacting by prohibiting in the 2015 budget the granting of guarantees for current funding, for working capital, and by doing so, we cut just that. We said we'd only provide guarantees for well-founded development projects. If you find that we've broken that rule, I'm willing to do a review and make it all right. We knew that the main source of this was unpaid current accounts. These were liquid craftsmen, above all, "Srbigas" to continue gas supply, to pay for their current obligations towards the supplier from abroad and to ensure continued supply of public facilities, schools, kindergartens and enterprises that we then considered politically necessary to have a smooth extension of supply. We faced that problem. We have introduced very, very strict measures that we are now not allowing these obligations to grow beyond that, so the state has not given guarantees for a long time, and now we are doing monitoring the state of the obligations of these companies and we are not allowing these obligations to grow, because we know that there is a danger that they will go directly or indirectly to the budget. That's where we totally agree, but that's what we did. The Elektroprivreda of Serbia may have a thousand problems. They made a restructuring plan, they made a plan to improve management, they made a technical improvement plan to reduce the losses that went on 16, 17%. They made a plan to raise the bill. The graphics you're showing may include some capital projects that are being realized, but you have to watch it affect the cash flow of the EPS. I think EPS has a cash flow. I'm sure the risk of giving this guarantee is, in fact, very low. "Electro-priority of Serbia" does not make such mistakes. The Elektroprivreda of Serbia pays for everything. "Electro-priority of Serbia" can buy expensive cars sometimes, but it does not make mistakes to refinance commitments. They're people, socialism is a term of positive zero. Well, they're masters to get to a positive zero, but never to cross that line. It's a virtue or a flaw in the system of that magnitude. I think the real risk to the budget here is very low. I think this is a good project, and Minister Antic can repeat why this concrete project is a good project. As far as these other things are concerned, one thing is, there is no inconsistency between someone showing you dissatisfaction with the current management, which is otherwise confirmed by the restructuring plans and the difficulties to realize it. You know very well that we have had the situation that, from the adoption of the restructuring plan to the beginning, it has been six months and that the union has made a huge effort to shift the debate on restructuring of the EPS to the debate on the conditions of early retirement, which is fine, it is their interest, but it is the strategic interest of the EPS, which provides services to the whole of the Republic of Serbia and generates electricity, but it still extends interest, not just a union issue. These are questions, no doubt important, but after six months, the only topic on the table was how to sign a collective agreement and how to provide what they think they need. Turns out what they expect is four, five times more than what other public enterprises were looking for, like. railways, etc. So we've created a problem that is a serious problem, but it's a problem that needs to be solved. As far as other companies are concerned, yes, they break in one place in the budget, but we can't solve the issue of the cumulative that's been going on for 20 or 30 years, not in a year, not in two, not in three. The moment you start solving these things, it takes some time for it to come to its place.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16355	Thank you, Minister. Minister Antic to supplement briefly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16356	I find this thesis of my fellow Vujovic about a socialist positive zero. I'll remember that. I have to say that this positive zero, when it comes to EPS, in 2017 is going to bring income from dividends to around 13 billion. That's right. I agree with my colleague Vujovic. Since you came to the Secretary of Finance for the Minister of Energy, it's better than before, which isn't exactly a joke, although it's not nice for me to say it, but we're a little bit of a joke. I have to say, there are good discussions during the session. It's not my place to judge, but we've exchanged a lot of things today as thoughts and ideas. Somewhere we didn't agree, about some numbers we didn't agree on. We'll agree, since around numbers there's no way to observe them in a different way. The numbers are numbers. They can only be who they are. That's why, first of all, I volunteered to comment on several elements. Yes, the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, has been paying great attention to public enterprises, and we've all been saying for years that public enterprises have to be introduced into some order. I have to say, there are results here. As far as energy sector companies are concerned, I did not draw their ID card, but in the 15th and 16th year EPS, ESMs, Transnafta, and Srbiagas are positive. Now you can attribute it to me, I don't know what it is, but it's positive for these companies both at the age of 15 and at the age of 16. Please, Your Honor, remove these companies from your list of losers. I repeat, all four companies, Transnafta, Elektro Network and Elektroprivreda Serbia, will invest part of their profits in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that will absolutely be so, and "Srbigas" which from one, I say, pre-catalysmic situation has come into a state that it is positive by business, will gain part of its profits, used to repay old debts and liabilities. I have to say something, here's my colleague Vujovic, he can confirm it, from a situation where the Republic of Serbia's budget, so all citizens of Serbia have returned all old commitments on the loans of "Srbigas", in the last two years "Srbigas" has participated in the return of these credit lines. It is not as much as Vujovic expects, but it is close to that, or two-thirds of these obligations are self-sacrificing. I have to say that what the prime minister rightly pointed out to public enterprises and that he forced both the government and the general public to put this issue in some focus, that gave results. I don't know about all sectors now, but I repeat, in my sector all energy sector companies were positive both in 2015 and 2016 and I am pleased to invite you to look at these data.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16357	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a National MP Dusan Pavlovic, a replica, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16358	Mr. Antic, I really don't know where you get the data from, but these are the data from the EPS financial reports. I haven't seen the 2016 data since I couldn't get that report. This is the 2015 data. Twenty-fifty billion dinars, it comes to him somewhere nearly a billion euros in the debt the company has. You know, it might have been a success in a year, if you're abstracting that debt, but a billion euros, you know, it's still a little bit of an increase in debt. So you're giving an additional 45m guarantee to a debt-based company that is already billions of euros in debt. Let me read to you a brief comment of this fact, a member of the Fiscal Council, Vladimir Vukkovic, who says – for several years we have indicated that the state has been giving huge money for the bad business of public enterprises. When underlining a draft account shows that there probably shouldn't be a reduction in wages and pensions that we've controlled the work of public enterprises, the EPS involved in this. So it's nice that the Prime Minister and you keep talking and pointing out that the business of public enterprises is bad, but you just can't do anything to make it better. You know, you're setting up a man who doesn't have any qualifications to be the director of any public enterprise, we don't even know his biography, you keep him in V.D. the state, and not only him, but another 30 directors, or performer, because it's easy for you to blackmail them like that. They have to agree to that, because it's very easy for you to change them whenever you want, because they're in V.D. condition. They have to agree to do anything you tell them, and now we need to trust you, not you personally, but whoever makes such decisions, on the word that the money now going to the EPS will be responsibly spent. You expect too much, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16359	I thank Mr. Pavlovic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16360	I'm afraid we're talking about different things here and there's no adequate understanding of what it means when we say that one company in one calendar year is doing business positively or negatively. It's simply a series of rules that define it and that are ultimately reflected in the final account for that year. That absolutely, Your Honor, has nothing to do with the state of their obligations. So the status of obligations is something that is part of investment policy and various other segments. If we take into account that the EPS has entered, under the circumstances, the obligation of investment approved by this Parliament, related to the construction of the 608m-dollar "Kostalac B3" thermal power plant, then I think I've given you an answer to your questions and charts, which, unfortunately, I'm not from here, because of the light shift, I could see well. I repeat, all energy companies are operating positively, earning operational income, or profit. The fact that they have investment obligations and what we're writing to them on certain obligations is a completely different matter and has nothing to do with this claim that you and I are currently analysing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16361	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16362	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Milicevic, the highly respected Minister Vujovic with his associates and multi-respected Minister Antić, I will only say a few sentences on two draft laws. One, on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Germany's Frankfurt Development Bank in May following the borrowing of the "Electroprivrede Serbia" stock company of 15m euros, I stress, for the regional energy efficiency programme in the transmission system and, secondly, the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank Frankfurt on May of 45m euros under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia". Dear Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, these laws of energy are an extremely important job for the Republic of Serbia, because the strategy for the development of modern states or the geopolitical strategic assessment defines three key resources today in the world: food, water and energy. Dear citizens of Serbia and the MPs, enough energy is the primary resource over these three, and it also provides, in a way, a sufficient amount of two other sources of water and food. If this is in mind, the importance of energy is clear in preserving long-term national security, which was referred to here yesterday by Minister Antic, our country. That is why we can freely pull the parallel between our country's national and energy security, because without energy security, there is not a single word about Serbia's national security. I think we all agree on that and we should keep that in mind. It seems to me that some MPs, especially from the opposition benches, didn't have this in mind yesterday. Dear People's MPs, my countryman, our Serbian and world-class Nikola Tesla, the creator of modern electricity, once declared: “The development and wealth of one city, the success of one nation, the progress of the entire human race, are strictly defined by energy available for use. ” Dear ladies and gentlemen, and our Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic has paid great attention to energy. I specifically warn those MPs who haven't read the exposés or the first one or the second one. I especially warn the university professor who spoke here today, who didn't have this in mind. In the exposé, more gentlemen in 2014, on page 24, Mr. University Professor should know and not know, Mr. Prime Minister said about this: "The task of this energy resistor is to ensure Serbia's energy stability and security, i.e. sufficient amounts of energy at sustainable prices." Dear ladies and gentlemen, that is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has developed a strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia by 2025, and I must, to the joy of the citizens of Serbia and most of the MPs, to realize that most of this has been achieved. How important the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President attaches this very important resource to this very important resource, I particularly warn the university professor because he had to read this because he received this, and in the election of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, on 9 August 2016, when he said in this high home: "This is also the response to those MPs from the opposition who asked questions yesterday or today, and here is the answer: As regards the restructuring of the public company EPS, a programme for the reorganisation and financial consolidation plan was adopted, a new organisation structure was established, thus making seven companies for the production of electricity to join the EPS, and five final preparatory companies for the distribution of electricity brought together into the distribution system operator "EPS Distribution Belgrade". “ – Exposes of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, of 9 August 2016, page 57. This is the answer to Mr. University Professor and to all those who asked this question yesterday and today, and they got this exposé and I hope everyone has it in their bag today. Let me also let the Members of the People's Parliament know that you do not have so much selfishness in you, the joy that the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is quoted in an international prestigious magazine from Rome, which is on the "Schigo" list of prestigious international magazines. I hope you're all looking forward to it, too, because this is about our Prime Minister and our Government of the Republic of Serbia. I must tell you, fortunately for our citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and for most of the MPs, this is the first time in Serbia's modern history that an exhibition of one Prime Minister is quoted in such a prestigious international magazine. These two laws, Mr. Chairman, refer to, making a joke out of this, you will get 0.1 next time in the election, providing a guarantee to the German development bank for two loans given to EPS and ESM, i.e. "Electroprivred Serbia" and "Electro Networks of Serbia", according to favourable conditions. I will not speak of it specifically, because it is more professional and better than I, Mr. Antic said yesterday, as Mr. Vujovic said. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, you who had just been mocking the rules and who asked the ministers, what I'm about to say is in yours, should be the answer in your bags, if you followed the documents and laws of this high house, which this Parliament brings, then you could notice that the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia in the year 2017, which this Parliament adopted, in article 3, provided for the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the German Development Bank, Frankfurt, in May, up to 45m euros for the financing and reconstruction of the system for the transport of ash and slags of Tent A, as regards the project of modernisation of the system for secession and the Termopower plant "Nikola Tesla". Here, gentlemen of the answer, and where is your Budget Law, and you ask the Ministers here today these questions, what neither our students nor our elementary school students would ask, because this is what we got. Let's move on. Yesterday some MPs, I must say, from opposition benches, former regime parties, criticised the EPS. They, ladies and gentlemen, who should have completed the EPS transition process a long time ago, and they didn't. They didn't want to or didn't know or stole money through it. It's going to be one, the other and the third. Look at the show on B 92 that talks about it every seven days. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know is very important, and this is the transition process carried out by this Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our President, let me say that this transition is conditioned by the fact that no energy project has been built in the Republic of Serbia in the last 22 years, it is gentlemen for you from the former regime. Mr. Vlakocevic, who spoke yesterday, and one president of a minor political group that sometimes appears in this high house, appeared yesterday to criticise the government of the Republic of Serbia and the minister, and today it has no business, he explains that Republika Srpska was formed on genocide in Srebrenica, as he says, "at the greatest genocide since World War II", which is why they should know, and they do not know, or pretend not to know, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been doing several more capital things for several years now when it comes to TENT and Kostolac. More professionally and better than me, Mr. Honorable Minister Antic explained yesterday, but some of them don't want to hear it, or they're sorry to do it, especially the one who threw it, who destroyed Smederevska Palanka and turned black for the next 50 years. First of all, these are electrofilters to remove dusty pollution. An investment of 200m euros, and all large capital facilities have these electrofilters. That's what Mr. University Professor should know, and he doesn't know or pretend he doesn't. He contests the Director General, and Mr. University Professor has not graduated from high school, has not graduated from economics, has not mastered from the economy, has not doctored from the economy, has no work from the economy M52, 51. Believe it or not, Mr. Minister, and he teaches directly from an economic group of cases. Oh, expertise, don't be surprised at the intricacies he's shown here today. Serbia's electricity has problems, as you said Mr. Minister, have been in the past, will be in the future. But it is true, Mr. Minister, yesterday you said that the Republic of Serbia is the fourth country in Europe by production of coal with 37 million tonnes per year. I remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, imagine 37 million of them a year and it is produced, transported and produced by electricity. And you have the courage, gentlemen of the Parliament, to criticize those people in that company yesterday. Well, you're surprised. You'll be surprised when there's a choice. In 2016, it was one of the two years with the largest electricity production in Serbia's history. I know some people have a little bit of this steam in their ears, but you'll never deny it, check it out. Now, that's what this government did, that's what this minister did to Serbia's citizens. We in the first three months, as Mr. Minister said, have a small drop but the critics today, Mr. Minister, and yesterday as if they didn't know it was more than in 2001. You were criticised yesterday, both you and the Prime Minister, just the man who was engaged in the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague that year, rather than the EPS. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why these 13%? Because January was the coldest January and last, check it out, 53 years. I see you're smiling, you're as glad as you are. Don't be like that. The Danube was completely frozen, we had slides and more mass of other things. The citizens remember that well, they warn me this morning when I go to the congregation. Our parliamentary group president doesn't remember, he has more important things to do, he's busy recognising KIM, which is why Albin Kurti told him about him, I quote -- I would like him to be Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, because he and his colleague from the same peacekeeping group only recognise KIM. He said on 5 April 2016 at 10 o'clock and 16 minutes at "Ju info". "Or he forgot because he was dealing with the secession of Vojvodina," he said, quoting - the republican government was still treating... The People's MPs of the DS are getting it. I've got my time. ‘... Vojvodina in a corrupt way, which is why Vojvodina should be given full sovereignty and recognised as an independent state," the quote, on 26 October 2012, in a prominent Belgrade list, was completed, not to speak further. There's still some yesterday who were talking here by heart. Don't mind them, because one of them made it up, because the language professor, the eighth fall, is goofy. Finally, honourable MPs, as a man of the profession, can tell you that in Serbia, time will count on the arrival of Vukic to power, and that was the time of the party of the former regime when they destroyed everything, our past, our present, the future of our children. If they had stayed for another year, they would have destroyed both our roots and the time after Alexander Vukic and the SNS arrived in power, when the turn, or the modernisation of Serbia, of course, began with coalition partners. In the end, yesterday you unwarrantedly called two men here the extremely responsible Mr. Zoran Babic and Mr. Minister Stefanovic. Please, you who are new to speaking of them in this high house with due attention, because these are extremely valuable people, you know who are MPs, extremely loyal to national and state interests and at their jobs in this high house have shown how it works. I invite you gentlemen from the opposition benches to vote in favour of these laws too, because at least in this way, even a little, you will contribute to the organisation of Serbia for which it advocates and not only advocates, but also is carried out by our President Aleksandar Vukic, the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia and most respected MPs in this high house and most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much, gentlemen of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16363	The word has a proposing representative, Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16364	Allow me a brief addition to the previous discussion. I have to express my surprise that we are succeeding in the discussion that some of the places that we agree on are defined as a place of separation. There is absolutely no dilemma here that we all agree that EPS can be a better firm, a more efficient firm, that there are fewer technical and technological losses, that it has a better charge and that it has better management. There is absolutely no dilemma, and there is absolutely no dilemma about it, because we started talking about it in December 2014, that since then, preparations, analyses have started, that several years of restructuring programmes have been brought in in June, which talk about both the management restructuring and the technological reduction of losses and the improvement of business and investment, and in all other things that can be analysed and put on paper. Then we move on to phase two, and that's the application of all that. You know very well that in Serbia many things are difficult to realize. They're realizing themselves hard because many people aren't ready to accept change. In spite of all this, the EPS in the first phase, on this basis, has received 200 million very favourable IBRD funds to which it has refinanced its expensive commitments from the past, did the first management restructuring, shifted from 13.14 units to a more efficient organisation. Did that change everything? Of course not, but at least they've moved from a completely fragmented organization to an organization that provides the possibility of these things being looked at and brought into order. As for the appointment of the manager, finding the best managers, the contest is called. The contest expired on April 24th. It hasn't been a month since the finale of the competition. In Serbia, it is not easy to find managers for large complex systems, especially systems that have such a special position and in the use of natural resources and in ensuring stability in energy, i.e. in the field of production and distribution of electricity, and to meet all social and other expectations at the same time. You know that very well. Here we are talking about a project that raises, which is the interest of all of us, the ecological quality of the production of coal electricity is rising. This is what we meet, Europe supports us in this, and it gives us subsidized resources, and that's all we're talking about. This is where nobody said they were giving up any of the other elements of this program. No one here said it was easy to solve these problems. I understand that here it is very easy to move from professional debate to political field, but please do not deny a project that is in itself good, because you need to make a political point, especially when you essentially agree. What you're quoting is actually the same thing, the concern about problems, the difficulty in realisation. Look at our reports, we've been saying for a year that we've been having difficulties in realising structural reforms, so that's it. That's it, you understand, that's that people don't want to drop their privileged position, they don't want managers to be managers anymore and they don't want to have more Mercedes, auditions and stuff. But it doesn't go that easy, you understand. You know very well that our laws are such as to protect people, that the burden of evidence is on the side of those who want to advance things, not on the side of those who defend the existing position. You know that very well, and it's actually something where the Assembly and we could work together to change that. We have no way to distinguish what is a rational attempt to improve the organization from so-called. The will of an employer, a state or no idea who else. That's the legacy of our past. So even though this sounds like, let's say even the debate, I see that we actually agree much more here and that we both think that the EPS has room to improve, that there's room to further reduce technological losses and technical losses, that there's room to increase the charge and there's already a high rate of charge. What we're recording right now is that we're trying to let everyone know that we can't waste electricity without paying, trying to introduce modern counters, etc. It's an attempt to remotely detect the condition of the counter and prevent the theft of electricity, to say folkly. That's the point. The EPS cannot improve its business if we do not have all the elements that enable its business. Finally, what you say as a paradox, there is no paradox. So what we measure as a measure, as the main indicator of efficiency, is what's called EBITDA. Now everybody's talking EBITDA, and I'll say it briefly. EBITDA is income minus operating costs, but before interest, before so-called our depreciation, before taxes and before paying off the principal loan. It's an indicator of efficiency. All of this is an indicator of the quality of funding, the long-term nature of the source of funding and everything else. With this loan, we allow the EPS to continue to produce with less negative environmental consequences and with better performance, since interest on this loan and payments, means the two elements that are being taken away will be better than they were before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16365	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16366	Just as a brief addition to what my colleague Vujovic was talking about, and what we had discussed in previous discussions. So in 2014, in view of Serbia's Elektroprivreda as a place that may be a potential problem, on the one hand, and on the other hand, where it represents a great opportunity, we have defined our goals and related to reorganisation, but also financial consolidation. As the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in collaboration with the World Bank and their expert team, we have defined this programme of financial consolidation that has several different objectives, and all together in synergy should lead to our most significant energy company being one of the extremely successful in Southeast Europe. The goals are different from the organisational ones, through the optimization of the number of employees, optimization of the capacity in which we produce electricity, through those that are very measurable, and are related to losses and charges, which is what my colleague Vujovic was talking about. Now I want to say what the results are. The losses, which in 2014 were almost 15% already in 2015, we reduced to 14.02%, and in 2016 we ended with 12.94% of the APO program and we are somewhere in line with the plan. In the last 2019 year of this programme, they should be reduced to 10.8. It's a series of measures, a measured position, plus those technical losses that are primarily due to outdated distribution measures, first of all on that low voltage. When it comes to payment, we raised it from 93%, as it was in 2014, in 2015 to 95%, in 2016 we ended up with 95.2%, and our goal is to finish with 96.8%, which would really be in the best electricity category in the most developed countries. All these results, all these indicators say we're on the right track. Of course, every time there's a series of challenges and a series of amplitudes, but we're going in the right direction anyway. What's crucial to me is that we're definitely making a profit. My colleague Vujovic, here, while we were now discussing, I checked, the EBITDA in 2015 was 46 billion and 555 million or 375m euros, and in 2016 it grew and was 47,158,370,000 or 380m euros. So, there is no dilemma and there is no way to question those assessments that we just made, that the EPS ended positively in 2015 and 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16367	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16368	Honorable ministers, MPs, citizens of Serbia, the Serbian Movement Group Dveri absolutely supports the modernisation of a large system such as the EPS. However, we do not essentially agree on the way EPS funding will be implemented, because we believe that this will not bring about any improvement in the development of this company in the long term. By listening to Minister Vujovic, I believed that this loan given to us by the German Development Bank was granted to the citizens of Serbia or the EPS, and knowing the decades-old generosity of the German people towards the Serbian people both in political and economic terms, I doubt it would be so. Serbian citizens must know that during the past period when tenders were being called for similar competitions, our companies were unable to compete because they were unable to meet the conditions laid down by those financial institutions that provided loans. I'll give you an example of the 2015 tender, when it was a tender for the renewal of numbers. The French firm Athos and Ericsson participated, and our famous basketball player Dejan Boiroga, who of course couldn't win the tender, could only be a subcontractor. Although she was doing the most complicated work, Kajmak was taken by the French firm Athos. So, we suspect that most of the main businesses in this project will also be working by foreign companies, which absolutely disagrees with the policy of the Serbian Dvori Movement. We advocate that these big jobs are done by Serbian companies. One of the reasons we still have to think about is why the German Development Bank gives us credit, why our country, here the SNS has been in power for four or five years, has not formed a domestic development investment bank and that we finance from our resources such large projects, to develop our entrepreneurs, to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, and not to keep taking loans, which you assure us, that this is the same policy that has been going on since 2000 to today. As for the other problem, a lot of MPs today spoke here about the domestic relationship in the EPS business, but I don't know how they came to that conclusion. According to the exact data published and which you received criticism from your IMF friends, public and state-owned companies owe for electricity, and it is 20 companies, which have already been mentioned here, with a date of 10 January 2017 22 billion dinars, which is seven billion dinars more compared to 2016. These are public data, and households in Serbia owe 17 billion dinars. So, five billion dinars owe less to 150,000 households, who have made a debt reprogramme with the EPS and who have a good will to pay back those debts, but they can't pay back and get their pensions, there's an execution, so it's currently planned to get into 100,000 households, get their things, get their pensions, because that's the policy that's come to Serbia and that you're doing today. So, little ordinary people are going to pay the burden of debts made by big companies and big companies that we all know are managers from the ruling parties. So I suggest that you sue and tax the people who run these companies, take their apartments, and leave the people who have a good will alone. That is why we believe that this way of financing the recovery of the EPS is not useful. Until the funding of such large state-owned enterprises is financed from domestic funds, the Kumak will always take over foreign companies. Since many ministers are going to China, I hope someone has had the opportunity to ask the Chinese leadership how the organisation and management of public state-owned enterprises works. Surely there is a way for public and state-owned enterprises to do what is right and not make such huge losses, of course, especially when it comes to elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16369	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16370	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the fact that it was mostly a constructive debate during yesterday and today for these important points of the agenda, there was some anxiety among some MPs, among some MPs, and if, Mr. Chairman, you were wondering where that anxiety came from, and for the same reason that their boss, their chief supervisor, Kyle Scott, who shows unprecedented anxiety these days and attacks some daily papers, allows himself, quite inappropriately, to call some papers a scum, and he's the boss of all of them. He's also the boss of these extreme lefties, who used to be extreme right-handed, and he's also the boss of this beer duke...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16371	Please stick to the subject after all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16372	Okay, I just made an introduction, kid. The boss is also with these guitarists there. Now, that's why they showed some nervousness, even though, again, the debate so far has been very constructive, as it should be. When it comes to bill proposals, therefore the Bill on Deposit Insurance, what I would really like to point out and underline, although Minister Vujovic, as well as Minister Antić, explained, or gave all those reasons why we should adopt these proposals, what citizens need to repeat, is that adoption of these supplements actually achieves this higher amount of flexibility in terms of the management of deposit insurance funds, depending on the current market conditions. Also, what is most important is that these changes also reduce the cost of funds caused by negative interest rates and, of course, have this positive impact, which is a positive effect on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This is what we call a continuation of financial consolidation, in the fullest sense of the word, as well as a continuation of order in the system of public finances. No matter how hard some try to show that they are not, Serbia is today a regulated country in all segments, especially in the segment of public finances, and it is the merit of these ministers, this government and specifically Mr Dusan Vujovic. When it comes to the borrowing of "Electroprivrede Serbia" and "Electro Networks of Serbia", i.e. by giving guarantees from the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the borrowing of these two enterprises, it is something we have already heard that those things that represent arguments that go in favour of why we keep this borrowing, and that part of the false argument that we really shouldn't be in debt. Now, most importantly, I would like to point out that the value of the programme is 30m euros. Of that, 15 million loan plus 6.5 million foreign donations, plus the "Electro Network of Serbia", under the most favourable conditions, with an interest rate of 0.8%. Now I come into a situation to repeat everything we've heard several times, but as proof of the difference between this government and the way this government exercises power and its position towards borrowing and what others used to do, when they're incomparably unfavourable, when they're in debt under literally green conditions, with six, seven and eight percent interest rates. That's the difference. I understand why they're attacking today, but what I can't understand and I can't find excuses is that they're willing to attack a country that records some results, which goes forward, instead of supporting those efforts. If I were them, I'd admit the results, I'd say, yes, we're recording some benefits here and I'd support that. And they are ready, for the sake of trying to profit politically, to stop the country from developing in every way possible. So that I don't get into a situation to repeat everything that has been repeated several times by our colleagues today, I'm going to call on us to support all the proposals in today's agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16373	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16374	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I'm advertising Article 106 that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Mr. Markovic talked about everything, except the agenda. Then why didn't he talk about corruption affairs, then why didn't he talk about the villa they bought at the Ministry of Finance...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16375	Mr. Milojicic, what you want to do is conduct a dialogue by calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will not allow you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16376	Mr. Alexander Markovic wasn't talking about the agenda. Why did you take my word and he didn't talk about the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16377	I just told you, and I don't think I hurt that member. You, if you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day, it can be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16378	- Of course I do, yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16379	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, here's another rude gesture for which we should advertise another violation of the Rules of Procedure because in this way, some of them look nice on the back, distracted by speakers, and that's not the first time. So this is the advertising first, and after this advertising I will advertise once again the Rules of Procedure for the conduct of these fine, educated, educated, as Sasa Jankovic called them all. Article 103, Section 8, I'm asking you to turn down the time, two minutes, for abuse of the advertising of the Rules of Procedure of this former colleague, for the simple reason that he used it as some kind of replica, showing some kind of building. If he wants to show us a building, he'll show us the building with the pasture of his President Sutanovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16381	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I think that you were witnesses and that you were able to see the situation of the past in the right way when I realized that the short-time speaker wanted to debate through the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, that is, dialogue with colleagues from another parliamentary group, I suggested and interrupted it. I think I've responded in good time. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Marian Risticevic: No. I thank you. The word is a folk letter from colleague Marija Janjušević. Your fellow Members, the time of your parliamentary group is four minutes and five seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16382	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with colleagues, respected fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia and all Serbs in the debate, and it is very important for you to hear how household business and staffing are being talked about here. I think the contract with KfW bank is really great and homey, but for Germany. We have repeated here several times, therefore, Germany's Development Bank, Frankfurt in Maine, and not Serbia and Belgrade's Development Bank on the Sava. The question arises – why did the host regime not even initiate the formation of the domestic development bank it advocates? Speaking of housewives, yesterday we heard the Minister of Energy repeat more than once that nothing in this country has been built in energy for 25 years. As if the same minister had been on Mars all these years, not in a party that has been participating in power for almost all 25 years, with an exception of maybe two years. When it comes to personnel, I ask you – whose position is Mladjan Dinkic and what effect has he and his work left on our country? Now let's stick to some concrete facts when it comes to household business. The question arises: who will be the contractors, from whom will we take the system for managing the SCAD transmission systems, will the Institute “Michailo Pupin” be hired, or is this place kept for “Simens” or any other company? Will KfW, when giving money, allow us to hire our experts at the “Michailo Pupin” Institute? Will KfW, when giving money, allow us to hire our experts that we have at the Michael Pupin Institute? Here I must refer to a very offensive statement by the finance minister, when he said it was difficult to find managers in Serbia. It's hard to find obedient managers you'll keep in V.D. The condition, it's hard. But we experts have and we allow, because of the regime's relationship with them, they go abroad. Let's go back to "Simens", to "Skadu", to the management system. I will agree with Mr. Atlagic that this is a matter of our national security. That's really true. This was seen in the case in Iran, which did not have its Skada system, but was implemented by Simensov, so when they had this problem with the staxmet virus, the whole of Iran was in a security problem, even wider, the whole region. They were then forced to develop their own system, and we already have it. We have our own experts. So we'll see very soon that home business you're talking about. Speaking of frames, staff of this regime, Dacic, "julin", Dinkic, thank you for reminding me. In the end, we're not frustrated with any percentages about the choices you're afraid of. We don't get any pressures that we have so many votes to secure for our party. If the citizens don't want the Dvori to represent them here in parliament, it won't happen and it'll be their choice, but it's no ruin for us from the Dvori, because we live on from our work and we'll live on. If the gentlemen were to wave the team...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16383	Thank you, colleague Janjušević. Time's up, 4:05.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16384	That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16385	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16386	Thank you very much. In several previous discussions, ideas and questions came up that I don't think would be bad to answer. One question was how many consulting services and similar services were represented in these projects. I can tell you that, according to my data, they're in a project of seduction, i.e. on the 45m-euro project, that 2.5m euros are provided for consulting services, in the ESM network promotion project, that 1 million is foreseen for consulting services, financed from a grant that goes parallel to this loan, therefore, it will absolutely not be loan funds. Secondly very, it seems to me, a significant question that I have raised in many places so far including the sessions that we have held within the so-called so-called session. Berlin's initiatives, it was a question of equal access to Serbian firms through funds provided through credit financing. One thing is to want good principles, another thing is to realize it in practice. In the first years following the sanctions, the Serbian firm was in a subordinate position because they could not meet the famous pre-qualification elements for these tenders. So they couldn't show up for three years of business reports, which passed an international audit. This protects international organisations and the main competitors from competition. So they say -- if you don't have three years' bills, or reports of your business, which have passed the revision of the world's famous houses, you simply can't pass that first test. Some of our companies are now in a situation where they can get past it. The second element was the quality and ability to provide funding, i.e. banking guarantees and all the other conditions, and we're slowly going out here and on the green branch, and that's where we're trying to get into a better situation. The right solutions will only occur when we finish negotiations on the Fifth Head of Eurointegration, which concerns precisely public procurement and when we are recognised by the domestic rules of public procurement in internationally funded projects. It's not easy to come by, but all the countries have been going through it. There are analyses that show that a large part of the funds that are given out of subsidized aid, this was done for AID, so for that World Bank branch that deals with funding the world's most underdeveloped countries, that a large part of the recycling and return to the most developed countries, as they succeed in obtaining these tenders. So it's an entire profession that deals with it. We can complain, but I think it's much better to arrange for us to conclude Fifth Head as soon as possible and to be in a situation that we can compete equally. Not only that, but we also have to return our projecting and our company's ability to be competitors. It's something we had, so we're not going to be much better, but at least return what we had 20 or 25 years ago. That's the first question. The second question, too, where we fully agree, but it's easier said than done, it's the development bank issue. You know that we, unfortunately, are on the worst side of the problem, that all the attempts we've given to date, I'm not going to evaluate globally, but we've given enough bad results that no one dares to go into it until we've prepared the ground. So the Development Bank is a good idea, but the risks are huge. The development bank makes sense if it can attract all these bilateral resources to that Development Bank. In other words, good development banks in countries that do so well attract the security of all donors who have no intention of dealing with micro-management of these grenades. It attracts other countries' resources, attracts market funds, and so on, and manages to focus these funds strategically on real projects. They must have particularly initial decades of work, more than strict rules of business. Just to remind you, the Eurasian Bank, where the main shareholders are the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan, has stricter rules than they have international financial organisation standards. Remember, they had to de facto channel a second tranche of credit to support the budget because we didn't have a program with the Fund at the time. So they often have to be more Catholics than the Pope, as the people say and respect those rules more than others. So I agree that we need to develop a Development Bank but there are a lot of technical and financial issues that we need to solve in the right way so that the situation doesn't happen if we have funds that won't be focused on the right priorities, which won't give the effects we expect. In principle, it's possible, the realization is very difficult. I've spent my entire working century working in such an organization, it's not easy there, it'd be three times harder to do it here because expectations are higher, opportunities less, risks and pressures huge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16387	I thank the Ministers You do not have the right of colleague Janjušević, you have not mentioned at any time in the presentation of the minister, I have followed very closely, nor in a negative context what you were talking about. [[Maria Janjušević: Please, can I have a replica.]] The word has a People's Messenger, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I would first and foremost like to express my support for the bill's proposals. So the Deposit Insurance Act and the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, because I really think that more than makes sense, is perfectly correct to protect the money of the citizens of this country and through the proposed solution in these two legislative proposals. Secondly, when it comes to money that needs to be used to modernise a system in TE Nikola Tesla, and money that needs to be used to improve the capacity of the EMS transmission system. So both are without a doubt benefit to this country, useful to its citizens, and during various debates, theories and other hints, sometimes we haven't heard a single reason today, and why any of these two programs would be bad, wrong, harmful, anything like that. We've heard something else, but there's no point in investing, for example, on these two topics, we're not. Could we have heard at all that the financial conditions proposed were not good? There was one attempt, it wasn't quite the neatest, I have to admit, but let's look at it very concretely and realisticly, if these conditions are, and they're very detailed in the material that every MP has received, very precisely, whether they're unfavorable. Is it, say, 0.8% interest a year unfavourable? It is very good that, in particular, Minister Vujovic is there, I have repeatedly welcomed the fact that every time there are and when certain questions are asked, it is a great pleasure to listen to the explanations and how what happened in this country and how it is today and how certain numbers are presented, which is why and why. It's a shame, and I have to do it again today, which many, unfortunately, miss out on the opportunity of the minister saying something and learning to understand something better. If there is nothing else to repeat tomorrow the same mistake, and to talk over and over again the phrases, to which it is easy to answer and it is really painful and sad to see the MP who is ashamed of being the same and always going one way and the same way when he gets a counter argument from the minister. All right. Everyone takes care of themselves and in that sense, so these are the conditions that are good and these are the conditions that we always make, we can't compare the parallel to ten times the amount of interest we've had on the annual level. Here, as far as I'm concerned, he's a couple of years old. Whenever we reach the budget, we must be reminded of some items relating to borrowing terms by 8%. Here, compare these 0.8% to 8% and say it's not good. No one can do that. A few comments just about something that could have been heard in terms of certain notes today, and I don't mean those attempts to throw away the art section of the yellow company, I saw that a man brought in a drawing today, probably to praise us for how nice he drew something. Too bad it looks like a gray stain, so I couldn't admire how much, I'm sure it deserves it. I hope we let the company use crayons in the future when it draws. As for the, let's say, note that some history of relations between the German and Serbian people is not good, so we should doubt these agreements. So, please let's be serious for the rest of the day, let's do this job so it's certainly in the interest of society. Not to wonder whether it is important or not, not just to cultivate good relationships, but to develop business co-operation. Let's remind ourselves, if we don't know what level it is at, how important the business activity of the company coming from that country, how important and important political support it is to us, how important it is to us, how important it is to us, these very useful agreements, we can get tomorrow and use them once again for something that directly serves this country and its citizens, our public enterprises, and important sectors in any way, so that's absolutely not the way. The other thing, as far as the ironworks are concerned, I understand that there's been a bit of a broader debate today, but it's still not good that it goes too far, but the Ironstone is an interesting question here today for at least two reasons. The first reason, and my greeting and my admiration for the art section of the yellow company, the first reason because Jellyzara is indeed a good example, a very effective example. How can a big and big problem be solved? When does this problem deal with someone who really cares and someone who really knows how to solve it? I'm thinking about Alexander Vukic and the government he's leading. The ironworks did continue to work, even though those who talked about it here today had phenomenal solutions in mind that it was liquidated, to close. They didn't even hide that they meant it, and they literally said it. Declarations from 2013 and 2015 may be found. We've got a problem with Jellyzar. What are we going to do with her? No lock on the door, so everyone worry about their own concerns, as they know and can. Well, not ladies and gentlemen, no, friends and comrades, however you go, there's a solution, so not only does the system continue to work and not only does the 5,000 families have the source of income again, but that the system continues to work by having a greater result than it did before there was a successful partnership relationship with our friends in the Republic of China, so it records better results and it could be read in the media, if only someone bothers to look at it. Well, because it has better results, it employs more people than it has found, so because it has better results, it also raises the reception of those people who are engaged, so because it has better results of announcements and the reception of new people in order of hundreds, so we're talking about hundreds. Now, compare what happened, it's really more than a successful solution to what great political geniuses and economic experts, various and diverse experts of general practice on the other hand suggested, lock on the door, everyone on the street and where they loved mine. Now, let's say that's a good example of the difference between those who care and who want to find a solution, and who have ways to find those solutions, who know that and those who would just talk and act on the system, my concern is to move on to another. What else is interesting about this question? Well, because it's actual. Here we have these days had more, very, very important news, precisely because of a delegation led personally by Aleksandar Vukic, 20 and ministers and mayors, delegations at the highest possible level to visit the People's Republic of China. He deals with equally important issues, for example. The possibility of solving the fate of RTB Bor, which we also mentioned today, is, for example, looking for solutions when you really want to find them and, say, opening the door for that solution to really be. I'm not going to ask, we already know what the solution is on the other side. That lock on the door again and again everyone knows and can. Just so no one out there cares about anything, that they don't bother when they draw, without the crayons for now. We have listened, say, to the very good chances and significant political support from the very top, the highest authority in the People's Republic of China to establish a direct airline. (Radoslav Milojic: Is that a theme? What would that mean for this country? To improve tourism and infrastructure, and the topic is just as much as that of "The Iron" for anyone who asks. What's up, buddy? University professor, right? So, it's just so much of a subject. How much would it mean for this country to further improve infrastructure? We also signed the memorandum, and the contract is signed for travel infrastructure all the way to the border with Montenegro. Not to talk about everything that contracts already exist. Specific conditions have been put on paper that will allow the fast track to Belgrade to be made to Budapest. All of this is just as important as this “Iron, ” because it is vital for the citizens of this country. So when something like that is mentioned, which I thank, it's my turn that whatever is still heard on that subject, think about it, maybe learn something. That's never bad. That's always useful. When public companies are mentioned and someone in one sentence says there's no proper management, and there's, there's one, there's three, as far as I know what he's talking about, let's keep it a question for the others. Since the doorknobs were mentioned, there is one question on my part at the end. So what is the catch? Why do some people here keep refusing to deal with things in a serious, correct way, to draw certain conclusions and praises, what's really good, even though it didn't go much better for the election itself, but worse than how it went, hard? So, what's the catch? The catch is that some things here, ladies and gentlemen, are forgotten to somehow be thrown out of the first plan. For example, the fact is that here on this country's budget, the level of money that we have dealings with people who are able to sign contracts with themselves to make that money from the state unfairly available, that with their phantom society the phantom movement is signing some contract. Imagine, giving yourself heaters, imagine that nonsensus, and then taking care of the budget, taking care of professional management, taking care of biography, qualifications and transparency? Otherwise, by the way, they had a chance to show both biography and qualifications and transparency and do you know what it was like when they had the chance? Well, one big nothing. So what they were talking about didn't show, and they had right here, in the capital, more than two years of opportunity to show it in practice. Nothing, letter to letter. So, one simple story, completely empty. What else do you want, like, forget it or get kicked out of the first plan? Well, here are those who mention from time to time Young Dinkic, somehow they'd like to forget that with his surroundings, they'd be walking with them in those failed protests. I don't know if there's still these protests? There's something I don't see these days. They wish we didn't have it in mind somehow. When I mentioned percentages, let's not remember what the result of these and such stories is, the theory and the lack of proper knowledge. The result is measured by very percentages, by some percentages in some elections. Now I'm going to end this with a quote, because I saw that fellow Atlagic is doing it very effectively. They put an official view, as an official conclusion, of these great political geniuses from the Internet movement the following thought into one of their material just a few years ago: "There was an impression," so they have some impression, "that citizens are stupid and that only demagogy can be sold". Well done. As could be concluded, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia have been understated. That they experience them like this, so they act the way they behave, so that's what the citizens see. That's what citizens recognize, so the citizens properly and repay themselves, thanking those just mentioned percentages -- one per cent vote in the elections, two per cent vote in the elections. There's four there. He was one and a five-percent champion. It's the ceiling of the political reach of those who deal with politics as seriously as they do. As far as we're concerned, which we understand a little bit better, and we appreciate it a little bit more, once again, this kind of bill will get support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16389	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a 60-minute break. We'll be back in 15 hours and 8 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16390	We're going back to work. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, if there is any need for this, because of the need for the Assembly to conclude today's discussion and to enter acts from the agenda of this session. In accordance with Article 96 of The Rules of Procedure were contacted by the National Envoy Marko Djurisic. I'll read it to you right away - three minutes and 21 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16391	Thank you. Here's a few sentences to say about these laws and two guarantees we have to give. We're like the Assembly to take over the guarantee. We have also heard here that these are favourable loans and interest on them is 0.8%, but our intervention, Minister, you said that in the debate, you have no objection to the National Assembly, or MPs, being delivered an agreement. Our amendment is that, as part of this Guarantee Act, agreements are signed with the bank, but I think it would be fair to the MPs, because not everyone may be able to make bills down there, as we have passed the law that when a citizen goes to the bank, the bank has to explain the effective interest rate to him and make it clear, that here we clearly state the interest rate, because it's not only 0.8%. We also have front-end feed 0.85. We also have this interest 0.25% for not withdrawing funds. If we were to figure all that out, that interest would be where and where the larger 0.8% would be, like when you go to the bank now to get a loan. You have one interest rate, at the expense of these, so the costs they and ultimately the bank must calculate everything to you at an effective interest rate. I think that's the same information we should get here, and then we'd see the difference in the story and the debate that minus 0.7% of the interest today when you're in debt or when you're holding funds deposited somewhere abroad that's why we're changing the law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and the interest that we're borrowing from. That's about 2.5%, that difference. It's normally probably here to deposit funds, but when you're taking loans, that kind of difference has to come out and somebody's got to make money. That's exactly what we need to talk about. The story of how important this EPS loan is for the health of the people of Obrenovac, I have nothing to add, but there is another loan, agreed in 2011, signed in 2013, $260m for absentia. What happened to the Japanese bank? What happened to that loan? Whether he's going into realisation or we're paying for the pens because he's not retired. What about the health of the citizens of Obrenovac for all this? When we talk about EMS, there are various examples of bad business in the previous period. I'll only name one here. It has never been explained to Serbian citizens why EMS bought 10% of the shares of the electricity transmission system, a.d. Montenegro, why the 10% share was paid 9% more expensive than the stock prices were the day before trading on the stock market. What about the fact that the stock is paid 95 cents, and today here, when you see it, that stock is worth 65 cents. So fivem euros were lost in this never-explained job, that the ESM buys 10% of shares in Montenegro's transmission network.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16392	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again here they've mixed our grandmothers and frogs within these six points of the agenda. We have things that just can't be discussed at the same time. I would stick to what is most important, pleased that Minister Vujovic is here, so I expect him to give an explanation. Minister, first of all, I remind you of your obligation and the obligation of the Serbian Government to submit by the end of June the final budget bill for last year. I warned you when your government was formed that it would no longer be able to go without the final budget account, even if at every session of the National Assembly, it made a scene for me if you did not respect that prescribed deadline. The final budget account must be submitted and discussed in the National Assembly. Don't think you can get away with it as easily as you did in the past, just like the dominoes were getting away with after the advances. It's been going on since 2003-2004, I guess. A year. We've got a few laws here for a little bit of weird. This law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and following a law that allows us to place deposits from insurance in Serbia itself through the purchase of domestic bonds is something rather strange because our situation in the banking system is very bad. We in this way, allowing the government to spend funds from deposits, or from the Deposit Insurance Agency, it's a fund, a kind of fund, a state by changing that money for all bonds, actually starting to spend money. That money is basically living money, and what the state gives in return, it's bonds, it's securities of value, and they can at one point be ordinary paper, not paper of value. It could be an old paper that sells in the old paper. We have a pretty disturbing situation in the banks. It is known that several banks in Serbia, 21, are in bankruptcy or ahead of bankruptcy. So it takes money to secure the deposit. That money has not yet been used, and when the time comes to use, the question is whether it will be enough. The republican budget for 2017 envisions expenditure on interest only a billion and 200m euros for earlier loans. The owners of 89% of the capital in our banks are foreign persons, capitalists, legal or natural persons, and banks are no longer able to place that money to economic operators or citizens. There's been a saturation. Economic operators and citizens are no longer in a position to handle credit obligations, and they cease to be in debt on that basis. On the other hand, the rights of hacks to citizens have begun to rob them of their houses, apartments and remaining assets in order to collect claims from banks, not only to citizens who were credited, but also to citizens who were juryd. And now in our legal system, we don't have social clauses to prevent the execution of what's called security of the necessary housing, the necessary housing, but families with children are directly thrown out of the street, instead of saying -- here's 20 squares per family member, or I don't know what number, so you can stay in it, because it can't come under forced charge, everything can come under forced charge, even a human soul. We've seen in these elections how human souls are bought. When our country, or government, places these records of value or cash registers, etc., it usually gives between 5% and 6% of interest per year. And in the EU, you say here that it's a negative interest rate, and I'd rather call it a lack of interest rate, because other than Switzerland, I don't think there are any countries where you have to pay the interest on the savings stake you trust. In Switzerland, there are only banks like that. You're an expert, maybe you know better where there are more. When you look at this value charter problem, we have data that on today, the state owes 629 billion dinars. And, you ministers, and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic often boasted that you had a surplus in your budget. I don't see that surplus. You can't have any surplus if you have 629 billion dinars today based on securities of value, which you yourself broadcast to block budget needs. Secondly, we have reliable data that a large number of budget users do not receive funds from the budget either at all or receive them irregularly or receive them insufficiently. In such conditions there is no surplus budget, there is no. There is a budget deficit that you are successfully covering up, while those who need to use the budget are moaning, from the beginning quietly, and then getting stronger and stronger. You see, our domestic banks, I have to look at these numerical amounts, because I haven't been able to remember them all, they currently have 4.5 billion euros in money ready to place and they have no one to place except the state, and when they're out there, they're terribly expensive countries buying it, credit. They could go by 1% or 2%, not 5% or 6%. Why is that? Where's the answer? I can't find an answer anywhere, there's no expert literature, there's no official reports from our institutions of the financial system or scientific and university institutions. Why didn't this interest rate fall to the example of European countries? If the banks are already in crisis and they're cramped, they have to place money on someone, and they don't place it on anyone, because they keep the interest rate at 5% or 6% because they're sure they'll place it on the state. Imagine if the state had not joined a total of four billion euros in cash registers so far, in what situation would these banks be then. That you let them go nicely, that instead of these cashier records to domestic banks and some citizenship, but little, you took loans at market price in Europe, 1% or 2%, for example, you can take 2% when you want Chinese credit, and they welcome you more kindly and ask if you need more etc. And the others who have a lot of money in the world are very happy with 2% interest on the credit rating, and we have 5%. 6%. It's unbearable. If I am following the next parliamentary elections as prime minister for the new government, I will be able to clear this up, but I don't expect you to... (Marian Risticevic: You're a prime minister? What's the matter, Marian? And who else would be capable? (Marian Risticevic: By beauty you. This is a very serious matter and these questions can only be addressed by people who understand it. You see, another strange detail here, the total capital of banks in Serbia is five billion and 200 million euros. But according to the NBS methodology, they have the alleged credit potential of 21 billion euros, since in addition to their 5.2 billion euros, they also have 8.5 billion euros in foreign exchange savings, five to six billion euros in cash from business entities and entrepreneurs, and therefore the portfolio is being formed for placement. Four and a half billion have no one to give. And with domestic savings, interest on savings is very low, negligible. The state would do much better if it had one single bank of its own, in which it would only be in debt based on savings roles and deposits of business entities, so that it would be in debt with 1%, 2%, and not to foreign banks to pay 5% to 6%. You see, those who have money in banks don't participate in the management of that money, so when the banks crack, and we're getting closer to that moment, they're left without that money. Only individuals can count on the state to compensate them for up to 50,000 euros in savings, while others are left to their happiness or misfortune. What we've set up here for the Deposit Insurance Agency won't be enough, there'll be a drop of water in the sea, and you're getting ready to spend it too, then there'll be nothing. You question all economic entities that are directed at banks to implement the usual payment technique, because with us the system avoids paying in cash, it's actually very difficult to pay something in cash within the system, except for the diaries, travel expenses, I don't know that anything else is paid in cash, everything else goes through bank accounts. Subjects must have bank accounts, they must have money in banks, they cannot manage that money, and then their fate is uncertain if these banks fail. So we need to change these laws and we need to look for a solution in which citizens and economic operators will be safer and banks more exposed to market conditions. Banks are also scattered at the heights of wages and by building luxury facilities. A huge part of the profit is being made abroad, not remaining in Serbia and Serbia are hands tied on their own capital, it cannot solve its needs, but must through foreign intermediaries. For the bank's business, its shareholders should respond, those economic operators that use the bank's loans, which enable the bank to manage those banks, rather than be fully disbursed. You see, the question is raised here -- how could the National Bank of Serbia approve the European Development Bank that in Serbia, although this European Development Bank is not the right word for word, can trade in dinar securities? How? That explanation should be given to the public. The deposit agency we're discussing here today runs 21 banks in bankruptcy. There are seven insurance houses in a similar situation. The agency can't handle it alone and it's too small a sum of money that I have. Don't take her that little amount of money. You're looking for money where it's cheapest. If you have from the last period loans with enormously high interest rates, four, five, six, seven, I hear there was eight percent interest, take 1-2% interest loans and return these old ones right away, and let's breathe easier. In these five years, you've put Serbia in charge of some 10 billion new ones. You inherited from Dosmanium 15, you added 10 to it, and now you've returned something, so you reduced it below 10. You see one more thing, just the bankruptcy of six of our banks, that's "Agrobank", "New Agrobank", "Vojvodine Development Bank", "Privredna" and "Universal Bank", as well as the silent bankruptcy of the "Serbian Bank" under the grain cost us one billion and 200m euros. It's irrevocably lost money. These amendments to the Deposit Agency Act allow the state of Serbia to continue to be in debt on foreign exchange, and guarantees it gives can't really mean anything in a system in which a bank's problem should be solved in bankruptcy. Who will guarantee us that the course of the dinar will continue at this level, when it comes to HOV and what will be the interest rate in the future? We have a problem with the National Bank of Serbia, an increasingly serious problem, and it is high time, I think, now the governor stands out, to open the issue. The so far governor maintained the old state of affairs, acted as governor of the World Bank and the IMF, but Jorvanka Tabakovic, for example, was personally responsible for the bankruptcy of the "Daners Club". She had some personal performance with what was called this director, Obrad Sikimic, one of the directors of the "Diners Club", controlled him for a year and a half. When the club came into difficulty in Serbia, it received another threem euros from the US headquarters. Since this has been squandered, management and ownership have been transferred to the Erste Bank, by fraud. I'm not sorry there's been a fraud. It is not transferred to the ‘Este bank’ operating in Serbia, but to the ‘Este bank’ operating in Croatia. Let some Croats cry now. That's why I'm not sorry. However, as far as Serbian businesses are concerned, they are in trouble again, because much of the money has been lost...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16394	Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16395	Just one more minute, and Micic will lend it to me from his own.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16396	Who?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16397	He's got to talk eventually.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16398	No, there isn't. Thank you very much. If the ministers respond, challenge the replica, you still have time. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16399	President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, it is nice to see you step towards at least one of the heads of parliament clubs where you offer a replica in advance. Last time I couldn't reach her, although I was mentioned by name, even though it was a chance to give it to me, but I understand your sympathies and I don't have any further objections. I think it's important to talk about this subject from multiple angles. When we talk about the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, at least this passive borrowing, the issue of guarantees for loans that will be signed under the signed agreements on the loan of "Electro Network of Serbia" and the EPS with KfW, we are opening more important issues, and above all the issue of our public debt. I think that today we have started the right way of dialogue that we haven't had all these years, how long this Parliament's call is going on. I think it is important that we just open these issues in an open way and get to know Serbia's public on the state of our country. Through the EPS state, through the state of "Electro Networks of Serbia", through the state of public debt through the state of the National Bank foreign reserve, through the state of the Deposit Insurance Agency, we are talking about the future of the Republic of Serbia. I think, therefore, it is necessary to open a debate the moment that we opened this debate in the right way with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy, you, President, tried to stop it and stop it where it didn't make sense. So this is about a 60m-euro debt, a 15m-euro guarantee of "Electro Networks of Serbia" and a 45m-euro guarantee of "Electro-priority of Serbia". From an angle and a view of 25 billion euros in public debt to Serbia, it seems to be a negligible figure, but I don't think we have the right to look at one dollar, one euro or 100 thousand euros in such a way, because here in the Assembly we have to insist exactly on the measurement of the effects of each law, and unfortunately we haven't had it in the past years, even though I have this experience in these four years, as far as I'm in these benches. We mentioned, a year and a half ago, we adopted the Law on the Restructure of loans to the EPS, on the corporateisation of 200m euros, and when we ask the question and the Minister of Energy, less the finance minister, who in some way supported us in the drive to establish standards that we have with foreign creditors and institutions that insist on, precisely, fully informing about the funding model, on the analysis of the effects on spent funds, then we ask you to do that too. I think that, as MPs, we should find strength and demand from the restoring ministry and public enterprises, which are borrowers, reports on the effects of the appropriations. Here's a concrete proposal, if it's already a topic and an EPS, there will be other public enterprises, give us a report on the effects of this 200m-euro loan a year and a half ago, the restructuring effects and the funds spent, and that's why we opened the topic. Did these effects, this year and a half, give or contribute or prevent, perhaps even greater losses than those that are now manifested in public in the first quarter of this year, a 14.5% drop in production, to be exact, in the EPS. What does that mean? This means that it affected some 0.8% of the total GDP in the Republic of Serbia, and that opens our question, Mr. Vujovic, when we insisted on presenting the government's plan on the way the legal limit of 45% of public debt participation in GDP will be achieved, where you will look for arguments on how we will reduce that debt and how we will get to that level of debt, if we have such a fall in the EPS, which affects that we have a total of 1% of GDP in Serbia compared to the 2017 budget plan and projection, which is made to 33.5%. We're worried about that. It is not a matter of criticism, only the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Finance, and especially the Prime Minister, I think we have the right to be all citizens of Serbia and how concerned we are about it. Then, when, Mr. Antić, you responded that we were talking about concrete data and when you asked yourself – where did the data on electricity production and the growth of electricity production in the region, when I proved to you that there could be no explanation for MPs or citizens of Serbia, that this decline in production in the EPS of 14.5%, in the first quarter, was due to bad weather. That the result of bad weather is equally bad in Bosnia, equally bad in Croatia, Central European countries. Now I'm going to give you concretely, since you've set up that dilemma, and that data, what a growth in production is. In January, it was cold and across Central and Eastern Europe, but in the Czech Republic, electricity production increased by 6.3%, in Poland 3.6%, in Croatia 3.3%, close enough not to have some, we will agree, major climatic differences between Croatia and Serbia, in Bosnia and Herzegovina 1.4%, in Serbia minus 14.5%. So the reasons don't lie in time, and that's why we don't have to ask for that kind of justification, because I think, as responsible people, we need to talk about what reality is to come up with real solutions to this big problem. This problem should not be underestimated, far from it. To all of us, I will go from myself, as one of the 250 MPs in this Assembly, and in particular to all ministers and the Prime Minister, the executive government, was not donated to the property of the Republic of Serbia, but was given to the management of the property of the EPS, the property of all other public enterprises, but so that your task and the task of each of us, in your mandate, was preserved and increased and technologically improved. It's a simple task. The reaction to being in such a large, significant system, which with two billion participating in GDP, projected at 35-36 billion, with a significant percentage, which is large enough with one huge inert, because it's hard and uplifting, but it's hard to stop it when it starts with a fall, to talk about that it's just the result of bad weather and what we're doing here now, is insufficiently responsible. That's why I'm asking you to discuss each of these data in a responsible manner. I think that's where we closed down that opportunity we had at the beginning, in the replica I wouldn't tell you anything, but I'd say exactly this data that you said you didn't have and you didn't follow, which is the level of production in the countries of the region and the possibility that they would have an increase in production precisely in this period when we were making that fall. We can assume that this is due to a lack of organisation, because when we have difficult conditions in January, all those who plan to stock up on real coal, make water supplies in the accumulations, to increase production and to cover increased consumption exactly that way. So that's one of the questions that will later affect import-export balances, because because of this less production, we had to import electricity, which greatly destabilises the country's economic system. That is why it is important to talk about every law, every euro, 15 million, 60m euros, and those effects. The next important thing is to certainly abandon the text of the Loan Agreement, so the right for all of us to have complete information on the basis of which we would decide to confirm this law and vote for it. They repeat these questions that I said at the beginning of this debate, and I think it was time that we might get answers to these questions, so I will remind the finance minister, because he said he agrees that the Assembly should also receive this information that is missing in the light of these draft laws. Let me remind you, 15m euros in guarantees for the "Electro Network of Serbia", 45m euros for the EPS, with conditions defined, in which interest is 0.80%. We agree that this is a favourable interest, and we agree that the reasons for raising and confirming these guarantees and raising these loans are justified, the ecological reasons for singing, energy efficiency, meaning increasing efficiency in the distribution of electricity through the "Electro Network of Serbia", but on the other hand I am looking for answers to these questions. So 0.80% interest, and a fee that is one-time paid 0.75%. The total amount of commission is about 450,000 euros, to these 60 million total guarantees. So the question is, who is this commission going to, and what are these jobs to be done to pay for this fee of 450,000 euros? What's more important is, of course, how much of the total guarantee are paid for the works and how many consulting services? We really don't have that contract that they signed as KfW and EPS and EMS, and we don't have the structure, we only have absolute amounts for project realization, and then in one piece of that money realisation and consulting services. I have no doubt that the highest percentage of these must be spent money in the realization of the project, but it is quite clear, legitimate and open question, I hope that we will all agree in the hall, that it is necessary to give this information, how many of these couples go for consulting services and who does those consulting services, and how does anyone choose a consultant in this business, what are the criteria? These must be important issues for all of us, especially for the public of Serbia, and for the parliament itself. Because the willingness to talk in this way, that openness, is a prerequisite for greater trust and our sufficient strength to talk about essential things, not for persecuting ourselves about whether someone gets the right to a two-minute replica, to ask an additional question or to give an additional argument, or not. Then we won't get to the point. And I believe the point is that first of all, you, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Government have at this point been given the greatest responsibility to preserve the value of the property of the Republic of Serbia, to answer all the questions, what are the effects of this responsibility for these five years. If we refer exclusively to public data from the Public Debt Agency, which on its website, you can see it, it says: “31. In December 2016, we had a debt of 25 billion and 189m euros," the debt was 24 billion and 900 on March 31st, meaning almost 25 billion euros, then the question arises, if that amount was 15 billion in May 2012, today 25, we leave 10 billion euros in public debt to future generations from 2012-2017. I know that Mr. Minister replied that in 2015 the public debt amounted to 22 billion, climbed to 25, we are now in a trend of decline, we look forward to it, but it is important to talk about the causes and effects of this borrowing, as well as the responsibilities of those in charge and in an insufficiently efficient way obviously realised these funds. There was an excuse somewhere, there was no excuse, but to get out of that spiral, just out of that responsibility for all of us to be effectively used for the future of the Republic of Serbia and all the next generations to come. The question is being asked today, and you can justifiably ask the question, well, you're mostly criticizing, what would you do at this point, and what is it that you think should be done in public systems and perhaps in the Assembly, in order to be more efficient and successful? I think it is extremely important to pass, first of all, the law on the exercise of action of general interest, to define what it is of general interest. We also talked about Serbia's energy development strategies, we talked about different strategies, but I think it is necessary to talk about how public systems are organised which will be a key mechanism for the implementation of these strategies. They can be great, we can bring great laws here, but if we don't have enough capacity in both public systems and in the state administration, unless we have enough knowledge, unless we have an atmosphere that will direct that knowledge towards growth and development, we won't do serious jobs. I think that there is, first of all, your responsibility, first of all, the Prime Minister, because we have heard very often that we do not have enough quality personnel, say in Telecom, in the EPS, so we have to privatise it, some foreigners who will lead our systems, and I think it is just important to give these people confidence, give them the opportunity to show how much they know, and how valuable and capable people in these systems and target that energy to their own development and their own self-esteem, the confidence of people who can bring in big and important projects. Now let's ask ourselves, as a generation, whether we are responsible for this and at this point, with these capacities, we can launch projects like Gerdap One, projects like building the Belgrade-Bar track and those projects that some of our predecessors left to this country and now to you for managing, maintaining. It's not entirely your fault, it's many previous generations, but we're responsible for talking, looking for and trying to find models. When we talk about these two laws about the Deposit Insurance Agency, it's a good opportunity to replace the so-called. Expensive loans to cheap loans, we have a change in the capital market, and I think it's important to use and reduce these commitments, and I know that the most common answers to the question of public debt and the rise in public debt from 15 to 25 billion were those -- we were fighting to replace expensive loans with cheap ones, in which case we would have an absolute debt reduction and we would have stayed at 15 billion, and we would only reduce interest, but I think it's important to cut those costs. On the other hand, we have a challenge for foreign exchange placements from the Public Debt Agency. At first glance, it's quite an acceptable proposal, but I think we should be careful here. We could also support this proposal of yours, but with questions raised, above all, by Minister Vujovic – that the Agency's foreign exchange funds should not be a permanent practice. With this challenge that we were talking about at first, it seems to me that I didn't get an answer to the question or I wasn't careful enough to forget that a good part of the foreign deposits to the Agency comes from loans to the IBRD for which there are state guarantees, and what does that mean for the risks of the state unless there are real and efficient payments from the Deposit Insurance Agency itself? So, we're already the bearer, the state of Serbia is the guarantor of the IBRD loan and the sources that have filled part of the foreign funds, and I don't know the structure at the moment, but some of the foreign funds in the Agency itself, so the question is what is the risk for all of us in the possible poor placement of these funds by the Deposit Insurance Agency? All the laws proposed do not bear too many risks in this sense totalling 60m euros, but they open up all the issues, from the state of public enterprises, from the state of public debt, from the effects, and what remains at the end of the drawing line, and it seems to me that we are in that period when undermining the five-year line, 10 billion euros of higher public debt, one billion euros of less foreign reserves in the National Bank of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16400	Thanks, time. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Since there are no more reports, if anyone else wants to take the floor, get ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16401	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People, I look forward to this opportunity to have a final word in our debate today on these extremely important and important topics. When we get this material, we certainly share with all of you a common good will to do something good for this country and for this people, and the basic things that you have talked about here are not controversial and will always have our support, regardless of what we are a fierce opposition to the current government. When it comes to protecting state finances from negative flows in international financial movements, when it is necessary to provide conditions for environmental protection, when it is necessary to invest in the construction of new power plants in Serbia or, for example, for the sake of working, as the minister here said, for Serbia to use its geographical position and to be one of the leaders in the transmission of electricity in these areas, it is certainly something that each of us will support and what is not controversial in all of our discussions that were heard yesterday and today. But what is controversial is what is behind this, and are these activities and these loans really in our domestic economic and economic interest? Our experiences so far, gentlemen ministers, unfortunately, are very negative. Everything we have as an experience of the current functioning of loans and various types of loans that we have taken abroad is mostly related to this interest to such a thing always have foreigners, but very little interest we find here. Foreigners first of all give us credit and take, of course, certain profits on credit rates and interest on that loan. Foreigners then blackmail us into how a tender is supposed to look at certain jobs and who can get that job at all, and then it just happens that this job in such a tender, which our foreigners condition, can only get foreign companies, while domestic firms can only possibly be subcontractors at best. So the interest of strangers here is very simple. They give credit and earn money on the loan, or interest they make through it, and plus earn money on the jobs their companies get when we use their credit for our infrastructure works. So, from the point of view of foreign economic interest, they are fully protected, and you are now giving guarantees from the Serbian state in the event that possibly EPS or ESM is not in a position to repay certain loans, that all guarantees of course the state of Serbia. So, foreign investor, investor, lender, let's call it whatever this case is, is extremely protected. Are the interests of the Serbian state protected? Is it protected by domestic economic interest? Is it a protected domestic economy? It's actually the questions that we keep reminding you here. I will therefore quote to you precisely your explanation of the reasons for the adoption of this law, where one point says that a special agreement will be adopted defining the details of the implementation of the credit and donor use programme, including the procurement of works and equipment under the German Development Bank rules in the international tender procedure. So we're conditioned to do a tender by the rules imposed by the German Development Bank. What's our economic interest? It's okay, you got a good loan, you got a good interest rate, you got a good return deadline. Well, why don't we ourselves dispose of these funds the way we think we should in our tenders prescribed as this state wants to prescribe them, not how the German Development Bank imposes on us? Will this tender be so imposed by the German Development Bank be favourable to us and be at all suitable for our domestic producers, or will it favour foreign contractors? It's a key question, gentlemen of the Ministers, for which I ask you to answer me. What is another problem here is, of course, the EPS business as one of the key strategic state-owned enterprises in Serbia. You all know, of course, that the Dvori are bitter opponents of any idea of privatization and sale of our strategic, economic and natural wealth, such as EPS, Telekom and our agricultural land which, unfortunately, under the existing Stabilisation and Association Agreement you plan to sell to foreigners from 1 September of this year. We feel the same way about Belgrade Airport and the PKK and a number of other strategic economic branches that simply cannot come into the hands of foreigners. As far as the EPS is concerned, it is in fact a symbol of the worst that has destroyed this country, and that is party personneling in our public enterprises. Party directors, party employment, party-set tenders, party robbery of public enterprises, and money suckling through fixed jobs for parties, godfathers, bursars and other firms that win in these tenders. It's the heart of corruption in Serbia. It's the heart of robbing the state budget. It is clear who is responsible – party directors who led the EPS and, of course, party boards and supervisory boards, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who sees and allows it. Give me an example from one of the directors in Serbia who was responsible for the bad work he was doing at the director of a public enterprise, who was responsible for the bad management work he had there. Tell me, who is the director who's blacked out in public because he's made a negative balance sheet for a company? Not to talk about criminal charges or processes that were meant to end prison sentences for those who brought us into robbery privatisations and destroyed our most important state-owned enterprises. It's been 72 years since 1945. Since the age of 72, the SPS has been in power for 70 years in the form of communists or Socialists. Mr. Minister, do you feel responsible for a 70-year-old government in this country? Has anyone in the SPS ever felt responsible for anything, that he's responsible for something, that he's ruined something, that he's robbed something in this country? Are you telling us that the SPS has nothing to do with this? I'm asking you very openly and very responsibly here, is that loss-making management that has proven incapacitated in public enterprises able to realise the new investments that you're planning here right now? Will the same people who caused the problem be able to get the EPS out of here? When I say that, of course, I don't think about those honest, serious and self-sacrifice workers who, in the most difficult conditions, in winter, in snow, in ice, are solving the most complex issues so that Serbia's electricity system can function under the most difficult circumstances? I think of you, party managers and directors and managers of public enterprises and public administrations in Serbia. So, have you ever been responsible for anything from what went wrong in the state of Serbia? Give me one such example, or tell the public that everything is perfect in all state-owned public enterprises in Serbia. If it's not perfect, who's responsible? What's very important to remind you is that here we can often hear from your coalition partners from the ruling majority that someone there once ruined something from some former regime. I don't remember anyone in that former regime being responsible for what he's ruined, and you've been in power for five years in this country. In doing so, Mr. Antic, you of the SPS, you are both the former regime and the current regime. When your coalition partners here in the hall call the former regime that it has ruined the state of Serbia, do you feel a little responsible because you were in power with the DS in time? Why don't you take the word and say...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16402	Now a little bit about the agenda. We analyzed this, we move on now. There's gonna be an answer anyway, I'm just asking you a little bit about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16403	On the agenda, Madam Chairman, there are two loans for two very important enterprises in Serbia, for the EPS and for the ESM, which should spend the money that this state here needs to take over and guarantee that they will be returned. Who's gonna spend that money? Contracting Directors of Public Enterprises, V.D. The directors we don't know will be directors tomorrow, and we don't even know who the new directors will be? What is the epilogue of party and godfathers at the head of the EPS, like Nikola Petrovic, the godfather of Alexander Vukic, who was at the head of the EMS? If he was good, why isn't he an EMS director anymore? If he wasn't good, when will he be responsible for things he didn't do well? So, gentlemen ministers, that's what I'm asking you as a very precise, open and clear question -- who's going to conduct these loans? Is the party nomenclature that has been here for decades at the head of party state-owned enterprises, which you have divided as party prey after the election? As pirates, when they win something and share what's going on, you share public enterprises in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16404	The pirates don't go to the election. Just don't let us insult you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16405	What Madam Chairman, today in Serbia everyone knows is that our public enterprises are a space for party employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16406	Ambassador, we always have the most problems with you, you will never talk about the agenda, and I have to respect the Rules of Procedure and somehow direct you to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16407	I'll keep going, I hope you'll find that you're comfortable with the follow-up of my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16408	General things everyone knows how to talk for 20 minutes, 30 minutes and my God.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16409	Madam Chairman, I hope this time you've spent on me will be in order to make it up to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16410	This is a useful time spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16411	So, gentlemen ministers, regardless of these provocations and attempts to prevent me from talking about this subject, I want to ask you very openly the following – what is our domestic economic interest in taking these loans, specifically? Because, you see, your presentations remind me of that remark by Marin le Pen in a direct duel with Macron when she reminded him that it was indeed an extraordinary talent to speak for a long time without saying anything. That's something I felt in your explanations here. Let me know how many domestic companies are going to work on these two investments. Where's your project for all this? Where's your paperwork? Where is your proof that we will benefit from the domestic economy in the realization of all this? Will our scientific institutes be involved in all this? You heard the question about the Michael Pupin Institute. So, are our experts going to design? Will our workers work? Will the profits remain in Serbia or will someone return to abroad, and that this country won't even be able to further tax it for the export of extra-profits from this country? I don't think he can ask a more specific question. You are asking for the support of MPs to support the loan and that the state of Serbia will be guaranteed to return this loan to the German Development Bank because we do not have a Serbian Development Bank, and you cannot assure us here that this is a domestic economic interest and that these jobs will work exclusively domestic construction operations and other business entities in Serbia and that all profit from this loan, when it cannot remain this profit from credit wars, will at least profit from investing this loan in certain business activities to remain here in Serbia. So that's my very precise and specific question. How many domestic companies are going to work on these jobs? How much money will stay in Serbia and how much money will be taken abroad? Do foreigners actually just launder money, their own money, so they give us credit, we give jobs to their firms, and they have double profits, based on credit and based on companies that take profits here. Are we gonna talk about this one time? Where's our domestic economic interest in all this? Where are our scientific institutes? Where are our experts? You, Mr. Minister, said at one point that we can't easily find a manager for a public enterprise manager in Serbia, and you haven't answered our question why we can't. Why can't we do that? If you're looking for a party director of a public enterprise, and of course a man who holds onto himself, to his professional integrity, will not accept to run a public company where you're actually going to order him to do what he needs to do and how, let's say, he should set up tenders for party companies. No real, serious manager who keeps to himself, to his renaissance, will agree to his career as head of the public firm. So you need to free public companies from party pressure, from party blackmail, from party placements, from party interests that prevail there. Now, you, Mr. Vujovic and Mr. Antiću tell me, is that not so, that our public enterprises are truly completely free from party influences and interests. Here, tell the full public of Serbia and everyone will smile at you because that's not true, because we all know that's not true. I have a few more very specific questions that are contained here in the members of this guarantee law. In particular, Article 3 states – the borrower is obliged to provide the funds for the repayment of the loan according to the repayment plan provided for in the loan agreement in the amount of the principal, which is fine, the interest calculated, which is understood to be a fee on undrawn assets. We've had so many cases so far that we haven't used funds and paid huge fees because party management in Serbia is incapacitated and we're paying for penalties and fees for withdrawn tranches of loans we didn't actually use, and we took that loan. Here's where we'll pay these fees if your party management doesn't do a good job. What I am particularly interested in at the end – what are the following costs of borrowing? Now, believe me, it's very interesting. So, it's not enough principal and they're counting interest plus fees on undrawn assets, but even the accompanying costs of borrowing should be paid. Is it, Mr. Minister, like in banks when we as citizens or as businessmen withdraw credit wars, so they rob us of credit processing and all other fees and fees, which we don't really know, or can we know how they're going to account for and rob us? In Serbia today, when you take a 50,000-euro loan, on average you receive 1,000 euros for credit processing. It's a green robbery. It is something allowed by the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which should not be allowed. You, Mr. Minister, know perfectly well that all the costs of processing the credit should be contained in interest. Am I right, Mr. Minister? So, you put all the cost of processing credits into interest, don't charge us subsequent fees, credit processing and all the other types of robbery that Serbian citizens today are exposed to by banks. Do we have in this loan such a hidden profit for the lenders or not? What do these apply to following the cost of borrowing? Also, your reasons for passing this law states that it is envisaged that the German Development Bank approves the borrower under the following conditions – the commission for organising the job is 0.75% of the amount of loans and is paid once. What kind of commission to organize what kind of work? Let's see what kind of commission to organize some work. That's the thousand euros? Okay, except there's not a thousand euros here, there's a million euros. And another fee on an untapped loan amount of 0.25% a year. So, two more commissions have been installed here and it's clear what the interest of the German side is. Now I'd like to hear from you, you assure us that we have an interest here, a domestic economic interest. I understand that you worked at the World Bank, but you did not convince me that you were still not working for the interests of the World Bank as Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Convince me, Mr. Minister, I am open-minded to hear that you work for domestic economic interests in Serbia, not for the interests of foreign banks, foreign firms, domestic tycoons or party schemes and combinations in public enterprises. Here, I'm here, I want to hear you, I want a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to explain to me where our domestic economic interest is, who knows what responsibility, who knows what credit and who knows what degree of over-indebted debt we are in this way. So I think I was very specific and very well-intentioned. I've admitted that we have a common approach in all of this. We want new investments, we want stronger Serbia's electricity sector, we want to be leaders in the Balkans, we want to protect the environment in parallel with all of it, we want new plants, we want this country to progress in every other way, but so far it's progressed by only seeing the benefit of the foreigners, and we've never seen domestic economic interest in all this. If you want someone to support this kind of new loan you're taking, you have to explain to us where our domestic economic interest is. Economic patriotism is actually the most important economic idea and the state should side with its economy, not foreign banks and foreign companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16412	Thank you for wasting your time, even though you didn't say anything about the agenda points. It's my fault, I can't fight you at all, not at all. The word is Sasa Radulovic. Excuse me, we're going to the replicas. The word is Vladimir Orlic, then Neđo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16413	Thank you, Madam President. The basis is the mention of the party president. Again loud, trendy and eager to attract a little attention, but it still has some consequences, which means two minutes of opportunity for us to explain things here, if necessary. Probably not to the one who caused the replica again, but to the people who listen to this. First thing, it has to be at the National Assembly session, distinguished colleagues. It must be at the assembly meeting when something is being debated, so that it does not sin and ask completely excess questions. For example, the question of the development bank. We are not only discussing, but we have heard a very precise explanation from the minister here present. But whoever asks it again is not here, but is—where? In front of the government with the trumpets, playing car. Then, of course, he doesn't hear the answer and then, of course, he asks one of those same questions again, completely missed, but the biggest problem is the same. Please, this isn't the level of fun with trumpets and car dancing. So this is a serious place and a serious topic. When he's not here, he can't even read the material. Well, he doesn't know, of course, what the content of both loans, or agreements, is, therefore, that it's about modernising existing systems that one refers to the thermopower plant, collecting, storage of ashes. On the other hand, increasing the capacity of the low voltage network is neither of them a project of scientific development. No, and it's completely pointless to talk like that and on those subjects again if someone were here, and not with the trumpeters, he was hanging out and playing and he knew it. So, third thing party, party, etc. If someone doesn't master the material for the session, then I don't believe he can be expected to read the Law on Public Enterprises that she adopted, so this very parliamentary majority and that's exactly the problem solved, and when none of that is done, and it's about a man who has phenomenal solutions for the economy in mind, let's print out the pairs, so we'll have for everyone. I don't think we should pay any more attention to anything from there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16414	Nejko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16415	I would like to thank the President. We have spoken here many times, unfortunately, there is too much laicism in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When the laymen bring out something they just say, and they have no idea what they're saying, then it's really a classic kind of laicism. The Socialist Party of Serbia and is proud of its history and this history is not only 70 years but significantly more. We draw fluids from the programme of socialist ideas and social democratic ideas and Dimitri Tucovic, which is for those who do not know a much bigger and longer period than 70 years, as it has been said here. If that's not known, it's good to at least learn or read Wikipedia, if nothing else, given that history is obviously far away, to some who comment on it like this. The next thing I want to point out is that the responsibility of the SPS has never been controversial, because it is a party that is one, and certainly the oldest party on Serbia's political scene since the introduction of a multi-party since 1990, unlike other vans and trabant parties that I'm not sure will experience such a long history. What is, in particular, the most important case, and the most important issue is responsibility for citizens. If that's what we're talking about, and it's got to be said, then our responsibility in terms of our election results lately indicates who citizens trust for past work, for everything that has been done or not done so far, so whether the same 2,28% is achieved on the last election results, or 55% of how much has also been achieved on the last election results.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16416	Sasa Radulovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16417	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, I heard here an incredible thing about how SNS solved the issue of party employment, so this really became a fun session. To return to the agenda topic, we have two loans for which the Serbian state should guarantee and question the Deposit Insurance Agency that does not, of course, want to hold funds at negative interest rates, but rather provides for some other solutions for them. First of all, as far as these two loans are concerned, the power grids and the EPS. Of course, it is necessary to develop the "Electro Network of Serbia" and, of course, to address environmental issues. It's undeniable stuff. What is the question is whether this is the best way and whether financing, or guaranteeing the funding that we need to approve today, is in the interest, or the best way to solve these two problems. As we know, the state of Serbia has been providing guarantees to large-scale public enterprises for years, and it turns out that it pays a large part of these guarantees. The finance minister certainly knows this in his own budget for both 2016 and 2017 he had to provide for large funds on behalf of paying activated guarantees by, mainly public enterprises, about 39 billion dinars in 2016 and 40 billion dinars for 2017. Of these projected 40 billion dinars, which the Republic of Serbia's budget should pay to creditors who have given credit, we mostly assume public enterprises that are unable to repay, so that's twice as much as we took pensioners in one year to save the state from bankruptcy, and in 2016, and unfortunately it looks in 2017. So far in the first three months of this year, and the minister certainly knows 8.3 billion dinars have gone to activated guarantees, I guess mostly public enterprises. So, for citizens to know these are similar loans like these two for which we need to approve guarantees today, for which the companies that got those loans, which the state gave guarantees for, couldn't get them back, so then the state has to jump in and give back the principal, and pay interest on those activated guarantees with all the penalties. So, for the first three months of this year, it's worth 8.3 billion dinars. What we approve today of a total of 45 plus 15m euros, which is about 60m euros, is about the same as the amount of the activated guarantees that the state of Serbia has paid over the first three months. Unfortunately, the report on the implementation of the budget submitted by the Finance Ministry monthly on its site does not contain information on what guarantees it is, or which guarantees are activated. which were activated in 2016, which in 2015, which in the first three months of this year. So they know what public enterprises are or someone else was guaranteed by the state without being able to repay those loans. This clearly shows that the trend of the state giving guarantees and that every time, of course, when we give guarantees from the executive authority we get an explanation that this time these guarantees are safe and surely these public enterprises will return that money, and then after a few years, that is to say, we have a continuation of payment from the activated guarantees from the budget, every year. The finance minister certainly knows it's a big problem and here he told us about these projects that unfortunately he can't check out the project himself, but he believes German Development Bank experts and our domestic experts have made a good project. We don't think it's a way to do these things, especially in the Serbian Parliament. Namely, the companies seeking credit would have to, and the ministry seeking it would have to deliver with this proposal a guarantee and a description of the project itself, the text of the loan agreement and an analysis of how the project will be implemented, when it will begin, who will participate in them. Here, we had just before the question of colleagues from Boška Obradovic who asked a too big question, an important question, in which way, which companies will realise this loan and which part of that loan will actually have a positive impact on our domestic GDP, and how much it will go out of the country. These are important issues, because if we are already taking a loan in the interest of spending as much as possible on creating domestic GDP. It's a benefit to the domestic industry. What's the question for you, don't throw Mr. Antic, is that you didn't provide us with any information on this, except that it was going to be one credit hideout for one thing and the other for another thing. You do not have an agreement delivered under the bill or you have projects with a detailed explanation that the money will be spent, during which time period that money will be activated and what effects will be given to the domestic economy from the use of these loans. This is a disrespect for the National Assembly, for you are asking MPs to grant you these funds, or to approve companies that are in your jurisdiction of those funds without giving detailed explanations. The finance minister also told us in previous exhibitions when we gave similar consent, i.e. laws to similar guarantees or government duties, which apparently everyone knows, especially the Fiscal Council, that we have big problems that the projects that are being made in Serbia are not high quality, that they are not respected, even those who have been made, that the analyses are not well done and that then the state has consequences. We agree with the minister's assessment and he certainly has serious problems with financial management because of the irresponsible relationship of those who take loans. Of course, the biggest culprit in all of this is the directors of these companies, who should make these plans and projects that are in the interests of Serbian citizens and solve important issues, and the environmental issue, which is in the case of the EPS or the issue of the development of the "Electro Network" which is credit for the ESM. But we can't get to it. The finance minister promised, or said it was working and that we would soon come into the situation that when we propose to finance a project and when the state of Serbia should either give a guarantee or take credit for one of the projects, we would get full information about the project, we would get full information about the project, then we would be able to track it, see if it was done as planned, and that in the end, we know when the project is finished, that we could do an analysis and see how successfully the project was implemented. I'm sure this is of great interest to the Minister of Finance himself. Unfortunately, the rest of the government seems to start with the minister, and then V.D. The director of public enterprises, which the Ministry together with the government is setting up, is interested in introducing such things, to introduce order in this sector simply does not exist. What we have in the end is that public enterprises are probably the largest cancer-earth of the Serbian economy, that they are practically led to the edge of existence, that property is ruined, is not invested in them, and then, in the end, I guess, as it was done in many other cases, that we are looking for a foreign investor, the owner, the savior to take over these businesses. We think that this is wrong and that this order must be introduced into companies, that is, we have to do it and not to talk about the privatisation of EPS or any other public enterprise, Telecom, too, but to bring order ourselves. The finance minister mentioned this interesting concept of positive zero, and we agree. Most of our call managers, in fact party personnel, who are placed on top of public enterprises, are working on this principle of positive zeros, which says – as much money as you give them, will spend as much money. It won't go beyond that, it's theirs, and they're not trying too hard to save or to develop that company, because it's obviously not their task either. When we talked, let's say, about the EPS, the minister was talking about the EPS' successes, so when we look at the EPS financial reports, let's say, in 2014, they have losses of 28 billion dinars, in the name of a reduction in asset value. This is mainly the case, I suppose, that the minister knows of a reduction, i.e. a write-off of claims that the EPS has for the electricity delivered from previous years. That's the result in 2014. That's where and where more, a few times more than you're looking for now. Which means, for citizens, if the EPS had charged electricity, he wouldn't have to take that kind of credit, but he could finance it himself. Also in 2015, losses in the name of mostly unpaid electricity amount to 19 billion dinars, which is 150m euros. These are your official financial reports, your consolidated EPS. And then for 2016, we still don't have those reports since they haven't been published in the APR. He says that when you set up incompetent party personnel to run public enterprises, these are the results we get, then we get projects that look so nice on paper, without any details, and then, of course, on the basis of that, in the years that come the state separates the money from the budget to pay the activated guarantees, and this obviously doesn't stop. I, as Minister of Business, tried to bring order to 2013 by the beginning of 2014, unfortunately, then the PPB and also the Prime Minister, had no hearing because it is an issue for party personnel in public enterprises, who are unable to spend taxpayers' money in the interest of taxpayers. So obviously, this big cancer-inflicted Serbian economy is in no condition to solve. I am interested in, indeed, why are detailed projects not presented together with this law that requires guarantees from Serbian citizens? Why isn't the agreement given itself, the text of the agreement, so that we can define ourselves, vote and say support if it's a good project? Also, it would be very important, this is not for the finance minister, but for the energy minister, to get a report on how many other loans the EPS took and took the ESM for some capital investments and to see how these projects were implemented, how the money for these projects was spent, so that we could assess whether management is doing a good job and whether executive power is in a good way controlling the work of that manager? Since we do not have any of this, the debate in the congregation is about granting funds, and it is never about how funds have been spent and whether they have been done in the best possible way. That's why we're in the situation we're in. So because of that, we also have a reduction in wages and a reduction in pensions and an increase in electricity and everything the state has done, just the key part that it would have to do, and that's the introduction of order, that part doesn't happen. As for these loans, i.e. as regards the change of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, which enables them to place money abroad, as they are currently negative interest rates in certain countries, to place that money into the foreign bonds of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia. The issue is for the finance minister, and this is not too wide, because there is no limit to any kind of domestic foreign exchange bond issued by the Republic of Serbia. Money may have to be invested, because if we leave it open like this, then it can be concluded that whatever the state needs can practically continue to use it directly instead of keeping it for the purposes of the Deposit Insurance Agency. Well, we can get into a situation that if the Agency needs to withdraw those funds, the state will have to pay additionally to pay off those funds to the Agency. So we don't have any restrictions. We welcome, of course, the Ministry of Finance's efforts to see the problem with negative interest rates. We don't know why it didn't happen before, maybe the minister can say a few words about it, because this is definitely a positive thing. We have a concern, as far as buying foreign currency bonds from the Republic of Serbia, that practically that money doesn't turn around and is used for other things. This isn't just about this minister and the ministry he's running right now, but we're thinking about it being a long-term thing, that there's going to be a change of ministers and a change of governments, so maybe the current finance minister has the best intentions and doesn't want to do anything wrong, but maybe the next one will do it, because we've had these opportunities in the past, so if our laws aren't sufficiently precise and well-defined, we can come to that situation again. To get back to basic thesis. We have major losses at the EMS, we have no control over the projects currently being implemented. We have no disagreements about how money is needed, how it has been spent on all the projects that have been launched so far, so we have no confidence that this project, or these two projects that I am undermining, will have no agreement or project plan, no analysis of how much money will go to foreign suppliers and those who provide services, how much domestic economy, which will help the GDP, means we have none of it, and we just need to approve these guarantees requirements. So I hope the ministers will answer these questions I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16418	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. Right on line, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16419	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I will try these two minutes to respond to all the lies that Sasa Radulovic made. First of all, during the SNS rule, for the first time in Serbia's modern history, competitions were scheduled for the directors of all public enterprises in Serbia, if Sasa Radulovic were asked, the directors of public enterprises in Serbia would be spouses, godmothers, one godfather set up in BIP, he concluded a contract for the provision of accounting services, and the solution for the entire Serbian economy would be neither privatisation nor co-operation with foreign partners, but bankruptcy. So, the solution to the Serbian economy was to push all businesses into bankruptcy and put him, the wife, the godfather for the bankruptcy of the entire Serbian economy. What Sasa Radulovic won't say and I don't understand how a man is not ashamed to say that the EPS was dealing with a loss in 2014, in which Serbia was struck by floods that had not been hit by a thousand years. That's what all Serbian citizens know. Then Saša Radulović shows up in 2017 and says – but, you know, EPS is a loss business in 2014. Yes, because they were floods that Serbia didn't remember 1,000 years ago. You say you don't know what the balances are. Here, I'll tell you what the balances are for 2016, 100 million euros in EPS is in plus. Currently, the EPS has 500m euros in account. In the period from 1 January 2016 to 18 May, therefore, I am telling you very accurate data, with a state on 18 May 2017, the EPS bought an electricity of 75.4m euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16420	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16421	... and we've sold, here, I'm finishing, electricity for 106, over 106m euros, which means that the difference in favour of EPS is almost 31m euros. In the period from 1 May to 18 May 2017 we bought...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16422	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16423	Here, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16424	I'm sure you'll have an extra...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16425	We bought electricity for 42,516 euros, sold for three million... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16426	I had to interrupt you. You will have, I'm sure, two more minutes, as Mr. Sasa Radulovic also has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16427	Thank you. Of course, here, as every time, are uttered complete lies. The MP's hiding behind immunity. When he's sad in court, he runs away from showing up and proving these really funny claims. I've never put anyone in charge of any public enterprise. I don't know which godmother they invented and all these other stories, so I'd put it completely aside. What is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that they know that, say, Babic, that is the famous SNS MP, is placed in place V.d. Director of Corridor. I'm sure it's one of those wonderful competitions that the SNS MP is talking about. Such directors in Serbia as long as you want. That's why we're doing this the way we do, because the incompetent party personnel are taking the lead of all of Serbia's largest public enterprises and are practically not taking care of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but are taking care of only party interests. It's a cancer of the Serbian economy. That's why they cut pensions, that's why they cut salaries. That's the ride that's been in power for five years. Otherwise, the EPS also made a loss in 2013, and these losses, which I'm talking about, on the basis of the fact that no electricity is charged, let me repeat again, in 2014, there are 28 billion dinars, that's about 240m euros, 2015 is 19 billion dinars, that's about 150m euros. We don't know how long it's going to be in 2016, since the financial reports haven't been published yet. So, to argue today that in Serbia, party employment, which is accompanied by corruption, is not a central problem, is indeed extremely unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16428	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16429	The only thing that's true of what we heard is that Sasa Radulovic filed a private criminal suit against Marijan Risticevic and me. Mr. Radulovich, I will never appeal to immunity, whenever you sue me and what you said is a lie. So, I did not call for immunity, as I did not call for immunity in the court proceedings that Bojan Pajtic leads against me. So I've never called before the court for immunity and feel free to file not one, ten and twenty lawsuits against me or against any SNS MPs, we never hide behind immunity, but behind facts. And the fact is, like DS, you use human accidents, deaths, natural disasters to score some political points. I think there is no death in Serbia without some political parties trying to use it as an argument in the fight against Alexander Vukic and SNS. You are now using floods as an argument that a bad deal has been done in the EPS. As far as the best man, Mr. Radulovic, Stevanovic is concerned, if I'm not mistaken, and his wife has a firm. You also know the name of the woman. So the best man with his own wife, while the BIP was in bankruptcy, he concluded a contract, the same type of contract that you concluded as a bankruptcy manager in, I don't know, 14 or 15 former social enterprises, with a company that owns 50% of you and 50% of your wife. Then there is one Sasa Radulovic to give us a lecture on how we allegedly set up party staffs, godfathers, etc. Mr. Radulovic, Mr. Zoran Babic, whom you mentioned today and who they mentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16430	Mr. Martinovic, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16431	Here, I just have to finish, Mr. Milicevic. So, Mr. Zoran Babic is a graduate machine engineer who graduated from the Faculty of Machines in Belgrade in time. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16432	You understand, Mr. Martinovic, but we cannot have double arches towards MPs of position and opposition. I respected you, and I think you got it, you had a complete basis in line with the Rules of Procedure for you to come in and replicate Mr. Radulovic. At this point my assessment is and I think we're too far away from the subject and to return... (The People's MPs of the MPs' group are sick and tired of it. Please, I'm in charge of the session, not you. In order to return to the agenda, we will now do, in accordance with Article 112, a two-minute break, and then we will return to the order of the registered Members of Parliament. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. In the order of the declared Members of the People's Parliament, the word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16434	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (Branka Stamenković: Rules of Procedure. Can I start? If the MP group were far away, they'd never have enough...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16435	Here you go. There's no need to speak to the MP's group. You've received your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, this is where one great untruth has been made. Right at the beginning, I have to show it. This is a document in which a one-year-old manager, who led 14 companies, otherwise an electrician or an electronician, who presents himself as an economist and who resents the university-educated Mr Babic to be a V.d., sets up his wife as an accountant at a company called "E-business Service d.o.o. Belgrade". He said there's no such document, obviously there is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16437	Mr. Risticevic, can I ask you to come back to the topic?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16438	You got it. That's why we're raising loans today, Mr. Chairman, because we've been made happy by such economists, usually by the electrician profession, and mostly by playing guitar or tambourine.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16439	Can we get on the subject now?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16440	That's why I have to get into the loans, we're in the middle of something, Mr. Chairman, because when you get them, they translate the company into a wife. Here's the document or the gentleman contests it. I'll support these suggestions, given that we've been recovered like this, led by 14 different companies that weren't energy-less, some were sugary and sweetened, this couldn't fit on four lists, and none recovered. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen ministers, fellow MPs, I thought, in the head of our colleagues and colleagues who turn their backs, it's like this, it's so well-educated, educated with Pavicevic, of course, I will continue to say, that they have left us a well-mannered state, with arranged finances, with a developed economy, so many objections to the current government that it was a military powerful state. However, when you take it, they are only debts, sold companies in privatisation, and here you have a case that you have a public demand and a transparent head of the parliamentary club, a party of the former regime, which with the "Fiyat" signed a fully capped contract, completely accurate, and it demands transparency. He's afraid of a man of robbery, and when he was Director of the Post Office, he shows here a picture of a house, and when he was head of the Post Office, an apartment of 200 square feet in Takaviska, which is why we are now returning those loans, so close to the center that he comes to work in slippers. Now he can come to the assembly in slippers, too. I've got to check it out. We were told about economic patriotism and credits by a man who entered this assembly through a party and with a party, a coalition ally, who sold the most to our companies, the most social firms, by the way, and handed over the most Hague indictees. He calls for patriotism, forgetting that these foreign banks were brought right in the period when his coalition partners ruled. He's talking about expensive loans and with, I don't know, 0.8 interest. Maybe they're cheaper in Hilandar. That's where you go in, you take the icon, you come out... And today he gave us a lecture on economic patriotism and on foreigners, forgetting that these loans are being raised precisely because they sold the company, took from one Serb, the company was owned by a state, one Serb, which they took, its coalition partners and sold to foreigners Norwegians. He's talking today about economic patriotism, foreign banks, foreign companies, how we do it, even though his coalition partners have already sold everything. I'm going to support these suggestions, especially since it's about burning up. So the air is dangerous if we start looking at it and that's why this project should be supported. So that the EPS doesn't repay that debt, the state for environmental protection and for the standards that it can and must achieve it, because some of our blocks give far more per cubic meter, far more solid particles than 40 milligrams, which is some standard. That's what to do. When everyone talked about ash, they forgot that we had a supply of 60,000 tons, 60 million tons or cubic tons, and that's the potential to build roads and the construction industry. So my recommendation to the government, the ministries dealing with this problem, is to use the potential to build a construction industry and to supply the low-building industry with an appropriate amount of ash, because the composites that are made of it are used for road layers. I think that ash can be made in the construction industry, in the construction of roads a lot. There are companies that already have these business programs, business plans, so they can produce 2,000 cubic metres a day, which is enough for a six-foot highway. If you take it a year, as layers below the asphalt layer, you can make 200 kilometers, and the supply can make the building material industry, so you can build embankments, etc. I think this burning point can go that way. As for the second loan, I don't think our electricity production should just be based on coal production. As someone who deals with agriculture, it should be done from renewable sources and that energy is made from water, wind, solar, and especially from biomass, because it is the most stable from renewable sources because you can program electricity production daily, because biomass can be available... You're the only one who gets it. I believe you're happy for some reason, you probably have a gig tonight, probably a leader playing somewhere, performing somewhere, having a gig, a famous electrician. I believe that's why you're throwing it away, to cut back on time. I don't know what you drink when you laugh like that, I don't know what you're on. I don't use it, but your right to throw won't dispute, as I won't challenge the magistrate's right to listen to my speech turn around, because it's so highly brought up, it goes to schools, colleges, etc. But for no reason, unlike her colleagues, I'm not going to ask for anyone to beat up the rooms of the congregation, I'm not going to spit on anyone, I'm not going to curse anyone, but I understand that for some reason she's mad at me, because I'm not going to let that happen anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16441	Mr. Risticevic, there's no need for direct address. Go on, get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16442	Mr. Chairman, you've allowed this, (Alexandar Martinovic: They're dropping as a man speaks. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16443	I can see that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16444	One earns, the other turns their backs, and there's nothing I can do to help them. So, I'll support these suggestions, but I think the person who's laughing at me, who sued me, filed a private lawsuit, sued me and his wife, and I expect my pets to sue me, and I believe for some reason they have some problem with me, and I believe that these lawsuits will be even more, which will cheer me up. The hatred they express towards the ruling parties can be described by quoting Nikola Tesla, Mr. Vlakodinovic is not here to resent it. So their hatred is of such nature, in such quantities that if it turned into electricity, it would shine on the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16445	You'll get Mr. Radulovich's word. We just have to. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. No, you don't have a chance, Mr. Beard. First of all, we need to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Alexander Jerkov's national emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16446	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I answered the word right after the previous speaker was given the word. Let me just ask you, where does the Rules of Procedure say and how is it in accordance with Article 112, based on which you have decided to take a break, that after a break, which takes an arbitrary period, according to your assessment, it never lasts as long as you say, that after a break, everything that happened before the break is erased? Tell me, what member of the Rules of Procedure says that after a break, there is a condition that did not happen before the break? I don't know if you remember, Mr. Milicevic, before the break of Aleksandar Martinovic, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, explicitly said that DS and the DJB parliamentary group use every death in Serbia for political promotion, collecting political points. Tell me, on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure did you choose to ignore these monstrous accusations by the head of the SNS parliamentary group and which member of the Rules of Procedure allows you to allow the head of the SNS parliamentary group to address each of these National Assembly in such a way as to calculate it with political indifferences? I could advertise a few members of the Rules of Procedure. I assume that other colleagues have also found themselves affected by this unfounded, in the Rules of Procedure, by holding a session, so just tell me in which member of the Rules of Procedure that after the break, everything that happened before the break is erased and on what grounds do you pretend that Alexander Martinovic did not say that?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16447	My colleague Jerkov, I didn't want to interrupt you, because immediately again, I would say that we have double arches to the MPs of the position and to the MPs of the opposition. But in your presentation, you didn't even specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who... (Alexandra Jerkov: Article 112, I said. You asked which member? Article 112 clearly states if the President of the National Assembly, in particular the chairman, cannot maintain order at the session by regular measures until order is established. The establishment of the order means that we are talking about what is the topic of the current assembly session and that we return to what is the order of registered Members of Parliament's candidates. (Alexandra Jerkov: Where does it say?) ) Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day. (Alexandra Jerkov: Yes, of course.) I thank you, colleague Jerkov. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16448	Thank you. Infringement of at least 10 members of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like the same thing about this 112, if I can, if you want me to name another one, for example. Paragraph 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16449	You can't point twice. (Alexandra Jerkov: How can you not, you said that I did not quote? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16450	You said she didn't mention it, so I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16451	I wouldn't suit you if you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16452	Please, I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16453	Of course, I'll make it up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16454	Article 112 says if the president of the National Assembly can't hold order with regular measures...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16455	My colleague Stamenkovic..
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16456	They'll set a break until order is established.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16457	You can't appeal to Article 112...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16458	You said she didn't call any members.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16459	We've determined that a colleague named Jerkov has been invited to join Article 112.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16460	So, we're done, or are we going to vote in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16461	You want to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16462	Article 104(4) of the replica cannot last longer than two minutes. Also, Article 103(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure has priority over all others. I answered, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, immediately during the break, and you gave the word to Ambassador Rističević instead of giving me, since the breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority. At the time, I wanted to advertise this Article 112, and you allowed Parliamentarian Martinovic to talk for more than two minutes within his replica, not as a compensation of time. You did not allow the MP Radulovic a replica for two minutes, but you announced a break because of, Kobajagi, a riot at the session, and in fact the real reason for the publication of the break was an attempt to stop a series of replicas and to prevent MP Radulovic from responding to the accusation of being a liar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16463	Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16464	And to respond to insults.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16465	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. As you can see, I've made up for the time I've taken from you, that's about 17 seconds. I generally apply Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16466	You haven't made up for it. You've extended it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16467	As for Article 103, you have pointed to the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 103(4), that the replica cannot last longer than 2 minutes, Article 104, paragraph 4, forgive me, I have also given MPs positions and MPs of the opposition, when I have assessed that this is necessary and that the essence of the exhibition is understood, that both MPs and MPs of the opposition receive five to 10 seconds later to carry out their presentation. As far as you've advertised, or you've pointed to a violation of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure's violation, that's exactly what I did. If you had come forward and been in the system and the basis of your announcement was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I would have certainly given you my word, which I did to you and my colleague Jerkov, because in the system, a member of the Members of Parliament, is now not in the system, one of the MPs of the ruling coalition who wanted a replica, but I realized that it was the basis of the reporting of the replicas, so I gave you my word, because the basis of your announcement was the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Radulovic asked for a word, the basis of his report is a replica, he cannot get a word based on the replica at the moment, as Mr. Martinovic reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You see we respect? Here you are, Mr. Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16468	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I'm reporting for breach of article 27. In advance, I won't ask the National Assembly for this voice injury. The whole time Mr. Risticevic spoke to DS MPs and Sasa Radulovic's movements either threw him or turned his back on him, which is a harsh violation of order in the National Assembly. You have been burdened that you allegedly did not hear what I said, so since you allegedly did not hear me say again – yes, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, the DS has been trying for a year to profit politically from the deaths of people who died in so-called. A helicopter's affairs. The Democratic Party has been claiming for a year... (The MPs of the DJB group are banging on the benches. ) Only you bang on the benches, that's what MPs, in time, Croatian Peasants' Party, grandfather of this Pernar, with whom your coalition partner hangs, they've been banging on the benches in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia Assembly, I don't mind. So, Mr. Milicevic, I've been talking to you, for a year now, the DS has been trying to profit politically at the death of people in so-called. A helicopter affair. For a year, they claimed that Aleksandar Vucic, Bratislava Gasic, Zlatibor Lončar, sought the death of pilots carrying a sick child from Novi Pazar to Belgrade and passed the elections, as they passed. So the people estimated them to be cowards, because only cowards can try to achieve some political charm on the fact that someone died trying to save someone's life.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16469	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, first of all National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16470	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm going to make a statement about the one that was done before they did this other one. So I'm advertising Article 109. - the warning is made to the People's Messenger, and among other things, it interferes with the speaker or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. We all attended, orchestrated about banging on the bench, the orchestra "never had enough" or "when it caught a piece of the battle company". So after the guitar, there was an attempt “there. ” I believe it is a talented musical orchestra, but you were obliged to tell him, even if the president of that group, even if the leader of that orchestra, even if the leader of the Dubrovnik Troubadour orchestra, was obliged to give them a warning in accordance with Article 109. And if not all of them, at least whoever is first among them, because, Mr. Chairman, one group is recognized by the leader. Unfortunately, these groups, we recognize this group by the famous guitarist Sashi "an unflighted man, just a little chiu dull". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16471	First of all, I just missed Mr. Martinovic, you called on article 27, and I didn't ask you a question, because you said in the statement that you did not want the National Assembly to enter into a voting day to plead on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. I thank you and I hope you understand very well that both the President of the National Assembly and each of the vice-presidents are trying to age and respect Article 27, which is a consistent application of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Rističević, as far as the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, I must say to you, you know very well that I do not practice and use rigorous measures and try not to sanction it, not to use it, not to apply it, not to sanction MPs, but to come through dialogue and agreement to what is essential and what is important, and what is the role of Parliament. You don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16472	I'm advertising a breach of Article 104(2). So, we heard insults, really brutal insults to two parliamentary groups, and enough was enough of the DS. I don't think there's really a need for you as chairman to allow this kind of atmosphere, because we've completely come out of the topic of this session, and because of the accusations that these two parliamentary groups in such a broad and general way, the president of the SNS Group accuses us of misusing people's deaths for political purposes. So none of you could hear it from any of us in this room, not outside of this room, and you're aware of that, but you're willing to show it in this assembly, in front of the Serbian public. I think you are responsible because you have not responded to this kind of speech in the Assembly, because this violence in the Assembly towards opposition MPs is very easily transmitted both outside and in the public of Serbia. Then we all wonder why so much violence in Serbia and why so much suffering seen on the streets of Serbia. Each of us needs a personal example and a personal relationship to show how tolerant and ready we are, and none of us here have used pictures, photos of the children of MPs, showing them to the public in this room and in public service performances in such a way that it is also an invitation to the public to treat them in the way we see them here, which is in the way of violence. From the DS, you will never see violence in this House and we will keep it from it, and that is why I call on you to always react in this tone and manner of speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16473	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I can agree with you in one, which is that we went outside the session. It's something that we presidents can't influence, and it depends on the MPs in many ways. We cannot predict what the MPs will talk about during their presentation. But I agree, Mr. Kiric, that it is important that we return to what is the subject and what are the points of the agenda. Mr. Martinovic spoke to me personally, pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and quoting what I did not hear during his presentation, as stated by counterpart Jerkov. Mr. Kiric, it's not my place to judge what's true and what's not. It's not my place to have a dialogue with the MPs. It is up to me and to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who we are replacing at certain times, not to conduct dialogue, but to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to a replica, but the moment we're done giving a word to the injured Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16474	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I'm suggesting a violation of article 107. The dignity of the National Assembly is threatened whenever the DS talks about violence in the National Assembly because DS violence and came to power in 2000 and the method of applying political and physical violence against its political inexperiences has demonstrated since 5 October 2000 and beyond. What all citizens of Serbia who are watching direct TV broadcasts can hear, at every new session whenever the agenda is established, you can correct me if I am wrong, one of the proposals to supplement the agenda, if I am not mistaken by your colleague Gordana Komic, to determine responsibility, the alleged responsibility of Aleksandr Vukic, Bratislava Gasic and Zlatibor Loncar, because they allegedly wanted the death of pilots who were saving a sick child, driving him from Novi Pazar to Belgrade. There's no session you're not asking to determine the responsibility of the people who wanted to save a life. Unfortunately, there was an accident, and from session to session, you're trying to get some political point, because of the fact that people were tragically killed trying to save a child's life. Dear colleagues, am I right? In 2014, we were hit by thousands of years of floods and Sasa Radulovic today, three years later, tries to benefit from some political benefit and says – the EPS has done business with loss. Well, it is, because we've been struck by floods. Why don't you say 2016 ended up with 100 million euros in plus. That's all the facts...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16475	Thank you, we understand. Now we're going to establish order and get back to the agenda. You told each other everything, don't yell, I don't have time for that. I apply Rules of Procedure and Rule 106. - can only be talked about the points of the agenda. Article 107, 108, 109, etc. – the President shall be responsible for the order and conduct of the session. The word has a People's MP, Ivan Bauer, waiting 45 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16476	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to refer in the second part of my discussion to these two loans that are currently in question, especially for guarantees from the Republic of Serbia on credit granted to the "Electro Network of Serbia" company. We have already had the opportunity to hear from both MPs and the minister today that it is two very favourable loans with a low fixed interest rate of 0.8%, with a period of three or five years. When it comes to the loan, i.e. the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia on a loan granted by the German Development Bank to the "Electro Network of Serbia", which is a regional energy efficiency programme in the transmission system, I think it is important to stress at the very beginning that this credit and the relevant plan of its use, i.e. realisation, is only part of a major Trans-Balkan Corridor project that needs to bring great benefits to the Republic of Serbia. A whole series of steps that follow the implementation of this programme and which follow its implementation, I am talking about this particular loan, are taking a central place in the ten-year plan for the development of the transmission system, i.e. in the strategy for the development of the "Electro Network of Serbia", but also a very important place in the energy development strategy in the Republic of Serbia. The whole plan is also in line with the relevant pan-European development plans, i.e. with the development strategies for Europe's electricity network. At the same time, these also meet the obligations that we have made in our negotiations with the EU, and these obligations relate to increasing the capacity of the transmission of our network and its interconnectivity, with the fact that, of course, these obligations are not in any way approximate to what benefits we expect from the completion of this entire programme, and afterwards the entire Trans-Balkan Corridor project. So, the international Trans-Balkan Corridor project, whose programme we are talking about today, namely a loan guarantee for this programme that we're talking about today, aims to connect Romania and Italy with a 400km high-voltage power line that needs to replace the 220km power line that is currently in use. The 400km-long power line runs mostly through Serbia's territory, and then from Serbia via Visegrad and Pljevlja, it reaches the Adriatic Sea through Montenegro. According to information I received from the Italian side, the Italians, i.e. the Republic of Italy, are already installing a cable through the Adriatic Sea, or at the bottom of the Adriatic Sea, so that it can be expected that in some foreseeable time, of course, the estimated time is measured in months and years, these two cables are connected, i.e. to connect the power lines with this underwater cable. The whole project on this side of the Adriatic is divided into so-called Four sections. The minister said something about it, and I'm going to try a little bit wider to talk about it so we can understand the importance of this whole project. The first section is from Spasic in Romania to Pancheva. The section is already under way and should be completed and used in 2018. So, as of next year, we will have in use a 400km power line from Spasic, i.e. from the border with Romania to Obrenovac, because we already have a 400km power line built on the Obrenovac – Panchevo route through Belgrade, i.e. to be precise over Belgrade 8. The second phase, i.e. the second section of this plan, i.e. this Transbalkan Corridor project, is the construction of a 400km power line between the King and the Kragujevac. That's exactly what we're talking about today. So that's the segment, that's the loan we're talking about today. The third section represents, I would say, the largest part of the work on this entire project, which is the construction of a 400km power line, a master power line on the Obrenovac-Bajin Basta route, which should completely replace a 220km power line and on the same track. So we're building practically the same route 400-kilovolt over this and that's why they're making these secondary shorts, so they can take over one piece, so to speak, under the so-called signs of traffic when a 400-kilovolt power line is built on the Obrenovac – Baji's Garden. Finally, of course, the fourth section involves the construction of a 400km power line again from Bajia Basta via Visegrad, Pljevlja and then through Montenegro to the Adriatic Sea. According to the information I have, somewhere around Tivta should be connected to an underwater cable that, as I have already said, the Republic of Italy is already very much setting up to enable the transmission of electricity to Italy. As for this particular loan that we are talking about today, which I am sure will provide a guarantee, i.e. to confirm this guarantee given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is 15 million, I have already said, a very favourable loan, to which is added somewhere between six and seven million grants, i.e. a donation provided by the European Joint Fund for the Western Balkans and the rest of up to 29,600,000 euros, if I am not mistaken, of the funds provided by the EMS. What's with the funds? The first is to build a trafo station in the King's 400-kilovolt station which will replace the current 220-kilovolt trafo station in the Kingdom, along with the naturally belonging transformer 220-400 kilovolts that should enable the connection of the trafo station with the 220-kilovolt power line between Bayna Basta and Kralje. After that, a 400km power line is built from Kraljev to Kragujevac, and in Kragujevac we already have a 400km trafo station installed. Why is this, like, the side end of the power line important? You will see, there is another importance, but for this concrete project it is important because practically when we raise Bajna Basta-Kraljevo level also at 400 kilometers, we will have the possibility that when we are on the same track as 220km of the Obrenovac-Bajna Basta power line, we will be able to build 400km of volts, in practice, to reroute one part of the transfer from that direction to other alternative directions and thus provide electricity stability in the Republic of Serbia, which would not be possible without this. However, it has another meaning that is not less important, although it already sounds like pleonasm, which is that in the vicinity of Raška and Novi Pazar, or in a region that is practically directly connected through a regional power line to this power line that we are talking about today, we have problems in terms of voltage opportunities that are very bad and in terms of security of power supply. Practically when we lift the capacity of this power line between the Kings and Kragujevac we will also increase the permissive power of that 110km regional power line that is heading towards Raška and Novi Pazar, which will solve this serious problem of voltage opportunities that exists at the moment in this area. So, by reducing the losses we have in the network, we're going to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. So by reducing the losses we have in the network, which of course will be even smaller when we build an entire power line, we are actually increasing the profitability of the company, or the ESM stock company. That's why what Minister Vujovic mentioned, that's why the period of credit start for the ESM is shorter than the start-up period for the EPS. Because according to some of the physibilities of the studies that were previously done, this project that we take credit for is extremely profitable, i.e. it will very soon start to return money, i.e. the ESM company will see the benefits of this project very quickly. Therefore, there is no danger that this loan will not be returned. That kind of danger doesn't exist. The other thing I said was that carbon dioxide emissions will be reduced, which is of course something very important in terms of preserving the environment, because preserving the environment is one of the key priorities in the future economic but energy development of Serbia and is something that is crucial in our current and future negotiations with the EU, because Chapter 27 is one of the most demanding chapters in the negotiations with the EU and one of the chapters that we will find most difficult to close. As a result, both the one and the other loans that we are talking about today rely on one part on environmental protection. So, in addition to improving the supply of electricity to citizens, except for the reduction of network losses and the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, this whole Transbalkan Corridor project has a really great importance for the Republic of Serbia. By replacing these long-term 220 kilowatt power lines with 400 kilowatts of power lines and increasing the capacity that we will thus create, we are practically reducing the resistance of our network and reducing the losses we have in it and increasing the flow and thus making this route through Serbia extremely attractive, or much more attractive than it is right now. In order for citizens to understand, today's flow, the Minister certainly knows very well, from the largest, let's not be the biggest, of the largest producers, of the net producers and exporters of electricity in Europe, such as Ukraine and Romania, according to large net importers, or net electricity consumers, such as Italy and beyond the European Union, go through Hungary and Croatia. Why? Because they have high-speed networks that we don't have. So, when we build a 400 kilowatt power line that will go from Romania to Italy and that will be far more cost-effective in terms of electricity transmission for Italians and other EU countries if they take over that current that we will transport from the Romanian border to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Visegrad, that means that we will be in a position to continue by auctioning the extra capacity that we will have when we build 400 kilowatts of power lines, we are collecting new funds, because at this point we do not have an internal need for such capacity. So one part of the capacity will remain free, and that part of the capacity can be auctioned and we can make a certain amount of funding that way. Not to say that there is another important thing, which is that in the future, if we continue to build up the capacity of electricity, and that's what Minister Antić was talking about today, he even said that in the last year we have been net exporters of electricity, which we cannot now argue is a trend, but in any case it's a good signal, and in the future by building new electricity capacities, if we become a net exporter of electricity, we will be able to export that electricity more efficiently and cheaply to us and we will have the capacity through which we will be able to export. After all, but certainly not least, by building a 400 kilowatt power line, we are creating assumptions for Serbia's future industrialisation. I'm saying, we're making assumptions, so that someone doesn't now say that I'm announcing I don't know what kind of investments. But no investor will come anywhere unless there's an infrastructure assumption. As he expects appropriate routes to exist, as they expect appropriate telecommunications assumptions to exist, he also expects certain energy assumptions to exist. If you have a problem with voltage opportunities, like we have, let's say, what I mentioned, in the Raška and Novi Pazar areas, we can't expect one serious investor to come to this area, because he simply can't build a drive, because that drive can't be connected to a network that can't withstand a serious power plant that's a big consumer of electricity. So, multiple benefits for us are building this corridor, no danger that this loan will not return, and in that sense, I would dare say that it is one of the biggest and most comprehensive projects in the field of energy in the last few decades and that it truly deserves our absolute support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16477	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. I'm sorry, to hear another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Jerkov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16478	You know what, if you would stop breaking the Rules of Procedure, we would stop telling you to break the Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you of Article 27, which obliges you to conduct a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and not as you have thought, and then to remind you of the event that occurred before you gave your colleague Bauer your word, when several MPs signed up to indicate to you that you were in violation of the conduct of the session and your obligation to comply with Article 103 of those MPs who want to show you that you have committed an injury in the conduct of the session, give your word immediately, and not to decide for yourself, I do not know on the basis of what right you do not have in the Rules of Procedure, that you will not allow anyone to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, on the grounds that you do not have time to do so. If you don't have time, Mrs. Gojkovic, to hold a session, you resign, you certainly promised to schedule a session at which we would have the opportunity to talk. If you do not have time to listen to the MPs tell you to violate the Rules of Procedure while holding a session, do not violate the Rules of Procedure anymore, but do not give yourself the rights that the Rules of Procedure does not give you. Mrs Gojkovic, you do not have any right in accordance with Article 103 to decide not to give a word to a MP who wants to point to an injury in the conduct of the session, and in particular you do not have the right to treat the MPs who are trying to conduct a dialogue here during which the ruling majority of insults them, abuses every item of the Rules of Procedure and...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16479	Thank you very much. Just tell me which member I hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16480	I said a few, you wouldn't listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16481	It can't be a few, don't insult the chairman. I listened to you carefully, you kept reminding me of the Rules of Procedure, and you didn't say exactly which member I hurt, which is your duty when you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to say which member immediately. Let me remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16482	Which I did. If you are unable to conclude which member I mentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16483	Thank you, colleague, for that only speaks of your political impotence to endure for more than two minutes to be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16484	It's your political violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16485	The resignation doesn't even occur to me to stand for 14% of those who have 14%, I will do so when 56% of Serbian citizens ask for it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16486	And when will you schedule the session, as you promised?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16487	So much for my resignation. So I can't even think of it. That you're loud, which you have 1%, 2% or 15%, my God.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16488	Mrs. Gojkovic, you made a public promise to schedule the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16489	You didn't say anything, you just replicated something, you didn't say one member that I hurt. As for the reminders, I can tell you, attitude 108 to study it well. I'm not gonna take two minutes away from you, so, Rules of Procedure, if you remind anyone, remind him, therefore, in general, of every attitude, not just what you like about having a session. As for the insult, did I react or not? Yeah, I didn't. I apologize to the MPs for hearing from day to day about how one of the interior ministers or Prime Ministers works according to the killer's directive in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16490	Mrs. Gojkovic, if you wish to report for the discussion, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16491	I didn't ask you about that, because the truth hurts. I did injure the Rules of Procedure because when I set up the agenda, I let anyone who answers the word and thinks that, as a law, it proposes to establish itself on the agenda, insults the interior minister, insults the prime minister, and says they're working on the killer's directives. And you don't like it. And, you don't like it when any MP tries to reciprocate you with the same measure and then the chairman violates the Rules of Procedure when it comes to you, and does not violate the Rules of Procedure when he does not react to flagrant insults at the expense of the Minister of Interior and Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, who listens every three, four days when determining the agenda. That explanation in determining the agenda has nothing to do with life, let alone with the bill that you here repeat every time every day. And I don't break the Rules of Procedure. I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure because I've been silent for hours and I've been taking insults at the expense of people who certainly don't work on the orders of murderers. I'm sure they don't work or ever hang out with them. And in the history of a multiparty system, evidence of who he was hanging out with. Don't insult me. The word is Snow White Paunovic. (Maya Vidinović: Business. We're done with the Rules of Procedure, so I don't use Article 108. (Maya Vidinovic: Why don't I have the right to the Rules of Procedure? I will now give you reminders about this behavior. Please, go ahead. (Maya Vidinović: Business. Why don't I have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure before you give me your word? I give you a warning, for you do not allow the chairman to conduct the session. (Maya Vidinovic: Who are you telling a reminder to? ) I pronounce Maja Vidinović, a reminder. (Maya Vidinovic: Why don't I have a word? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16492	Did I get the word, President? I've got the microphone on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16493	I gave you a warning. Please, Snow White Pawnovic, let her yell, let her insult whoever she wants. Indeed, the picture goes on the air, and it's clear to everyone what this is all about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16494	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with fellow Members and respected fellow Members, using the right of the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I intend to look at another important aspect in the second part of my address, which is an ecological aspect of the need to improve our largest TE "Nikola Tesla A" and bring out some ideas that can help improve the use of renewable and non-renewable energy resources. The innovative ash collection and transfer system that will be financed from the loan that we are discussing today should operate according to the model of non-conductive transport of ash and water mixture content in relation to one to one. In this way, the amount of floating ash particles is reduced, i.e. the elimination of flying particles that actually pollute air and cause respiratory diseases in humans, but also the penetration of heavy metals into groundwater, as well as pollution of surface layers of fertile soil. These reasons are quite enough to rehabilitate the existing systems of moving this thermal power plant of ours. Otherwise, as I did in yesterday's address, the ash produced by coal production is no longer standardized as dangerous waste. Today, it is also considered a resource that can and can be used in the production of construction materials or road construction, as is the case in many European and other countries. Not only would using TENT ash, whose reserves are now worth more than one billion euros, trigger a circular, circular, or green economy model, but the use of ash would also release more than 1,500 hectares of agricultural land, which could also be used for agricultural production with a certain revitalisation. It should be stressed that Serbia has defined standards for the use of ash that will comply with European standards, so that the exploitation of this resource can become a significant source of capital, which can be launched by a number of investment, i.e., so on. Green projects, and a green investment fund can be unmistakably formed, which would fund different energy efficiency projects, notably green projects that would reduce lignite involvement in electricity production. One of the models that Green Serbia advocates, which are my esteemed colleagues and members of our parliamentary group, is, gradually, the introduction of a system for combined use of coal and biomass, which gradually increases its use as a renewable energy through cohesion. Our energy power is a biomass whose use of us unfortunately is still extremely modest. Right now, the ash resource could be the initial capital for one of these projects in Kolubara and Tent. Twenty years ago, this company did a biomass-addition project from the agro-resistant power plants. So, the ash from the TENT, which many today still consider waste, can and can become a significant development capital. Part of the funding from the use of ash, as a resource, could be used for intensive deforestation, which would compensate for carbon dioxide emissions for which, according to EU environmental regulations, we have an obligation to pay for environmental taxis. Part of the funds from the use of ash can also be returned to the land revitalisation community or, for example, for the formation of plastics under which farmers from the environment could produce safe agricultural products. These are just some of the ideas for using ash as a resource, which could provide significant funds for green economy projects instead of investing in budget funds or funds. I presented these other ideas on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and our MPs from the U.S. At the very end, I would like to stress that the SPS parliamentary group, certainly, will support all the proposed laws we discussed, as I said yesterday, obviously did not surprise a number of colleagues. As a parliamentary group, we are increasingly provoking admiration and more and more frequent mentions, and I thank you for that, so we just used us as an opportunity for advertising and for our own but bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16495	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16496	I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16497	I apologize to Alexander. Let's hear what my colleague Maja Vidinovic has to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16498	Thank you, Madam President. Those cynical allegations of yours, the cynical announcements and the giving of words, at last, may entertain someone, but they only depict your impotence and political abuse. I'm just asking that the MP who called...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16499	I really don't find this experience of yours fun at every session. Please don't insult me. I'm a man and an MP like you, and I take incredible insults from session to session. Amazing insults.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16500	What insults?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16501	I never say if you speak so cynically, malicely, beautifully, uglyly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16502	That's what you said to me earlier. I was just quoting you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16503	Please, everyone has a limit to their lives. Because you think it's only because the opposition is allowed to insult someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16504	Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16505	No, you can't get a word in, until I explain to you that you'll get a word for hurting the Rules of Procedure, if you stick to the Rules of Procedure and say which member I hurt and how. Whether I'm underprivileged, kind, sharper, leave it for you, for your discussion at the cafe or at party forums. I'm telling you one more time, don't insult me. I say to all MPs of the opposition, do not insult me. It's a picture of you, not me. We don't have to love each other, but we can respect each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16506	Do you allow me to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and give me what you are bound by this Rules of Procedure, Madam President of the National Assembly Majo Gojkovic? In the applied breaks, I ask you to remind yourself of a member of 103, who, I quote, for the sake of the public and for the citizens of Serbia who have obliged us to represent and maintain their vote in this Assembly, if I say that the MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. You, not only did you not allow the People's Messengers who called to indicate the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you gave warning to the People's Messengers who asked to point out such a thing. So I ask you to tell the National Assembly, the People's MPs and the citizens of Serbia – when, by what act, in which day and moment the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been put off, or perhaps you think that at this moment you have most of what you have, it allows you to abuse the Rules of Procedure most brutally and to silence us not, but all the citizens who have chosen such a thing. I repeat, on the basis of Article 103, Mr Martinovic, if you do not understand, on the basis of Article 103, to say on the basis of which member, at which point has the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly been suspended and on what basis have you given notice to the MP who has requested to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16507	I gave you a warning. I don't know if you're talking to yourself in the third person. I don't usually talk about myself in the third person. I gave you a warning about misbehaving and insults at my expense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16508	What insults?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16509	Here you go again. And because you made it impossible for me to run the session. He was already a member of 103rd. Your esteemed colleague, Alexandra Jerkov, also called for Article 103, and I don't have to explain it again. This breach of the Rules of Procedure is nonexistent because you are referring to the same member. The notices and the rest of it, I don't have to give in this part of the session. The last speaker, Aleksandra Tomic, is not a majority, but a convincing majority. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16510	I thank the chairman. After a comprehensive discussion of all the parliamentary groups and their authorised representatives, today we had many opportunities to hear. And the story of what the effects are, at all, economic laws and whether we are responsible generationally for certain economic changes in society and that public enterprises are pirated prey and that there are party employment, but we haven't talked about it today, no opposition political party has said that the laws we are making today on changes and additions to the provision of deposits and on the fund, practically the agency, which manages the foreign investment of our citizens is a good law and a good change that should allow for the inflow of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is what certain political parties, and who are not like-minded with the ruling majority parties, should show a democratic step in supporting good bill proposals. They should support it because, in the interest of all of us, and we should not simply share responsibility for what was bad, so now we will all share it together, and the fundamental guilt of those by 2012, should be amnested, but now those who really want to change many things in the country, especially in terms of fiscal consolidation, that we simply put it together that we are all guilty because if some results are bad. No, we are not all guilty, but those who ruled until 2012 have left a certain public debt as it is, but they have hidden it in certain balance sheets of public enterprises, banks and guarantees, but we who have implemented certain economic reforms in excess of 300 laws per year in the last four years and are putting all our debts and really presenting budget realisation reports in the way it is real, as it is true, by bringing new laws that are in line with fiscal consolidation, by applying new economic standards that apply all the developed countries of the European Union and getting, ultimately, praise from all international institutions that what we have been doing in the past four years is good and that there are certain credit institutions, such as KFW Bank, which is normally the state bank of Germany, wants to finance certain projects in the Republic of Serbia from the energy sector. It's not true that a bank like KFW wants to work with certain countries unless there's a project documentation, means it's done and there's technical documentation for something like this. When we talk about projects, and especially for part of the migration, i.e. storage and depositing of ash, slags and gypsies, this idea began after 2012 and this project documentation started and when he was Minister of Energy together with the environmental protection sector, led by Mrs. Zorana Mihajlović, but also today when Mr. Antić Minister of Energy, they know very well that it took years and years to first prepare the documentation and that a KFW bank could and would want to work with you, above all as a state, and on the other hand as public enterprises. Thus, today’s session simply shows that what we have as proposals for the law is very good and should be supported. When we talk about the Deposit Insurance Agency and these proposals, they show one positive message, above all to the depositors who simply keep Serbian citizens in their banks, that there is a possibility that these placements can be placed on state securities of value and that they will therefore simply give the state a projected income for this year even more than two million euros if you employ them. So, this is one opportunity to show that there is financial integrity in general in the business of the securities market of value, when it comes to state securities of value, but it is also important that this change shows that there is no need for any additional funding from the budget, but by changing itself, we are leading to some improvements in the income system of the realisation of the budget itself. When we talk about these two credit arrangements with KFW bank, relating to EPS and EMS, we should say, and today we have had the opportunity to hear that by introducing new standards in the field of environmental protection, but it's not just an empty story when we talk about environmental protection. We are introducing high standards because of ourselves, primarily because of the health of all of us and all of Serbia's citizens. By introducing these standards, we help ourselves, first of all, and by introducing a healthy life. So we have as little pollution as possible from both water and air and land, and thus we are practically reducing budget giving for the needs of Serbia's citizens' health care. So, the effects of these investments at all are multiple, not only the good business of the EPS, not only the good business of the ESM, but simply, the introduction of certain standards with which Serbia's budget, in the end, will be distributed by many items. Much has been said about the operations of EPS and ESM, but no one wanted to refer to what was going on in Kopalnik on 7 March 2017, when there was one panel that was at all related to EPS business, when it was the Executive Director, and because of the citizens of Serbia, because many may not have followed at all when the EPS data were presented in public, on a panel that talked about restructuring and investment and inclusive development in general, where the representatives of the IMF and the World Bank and the IBRD were present, meaning, the Executive Director of the EPS Finance, named Tanja Pavlovic, gave one detailed analysis of the EPS's operations. Otherwise, you can find this article in the “Kurir, ” which has been transmitted in the integral version. I'm saying this because all those who were skeptics in their discussions, who said that this company is doing a bad job, so now it's talking about the exact results of the EPS business and it's saying that you can't twist the facts that are standing, and we can't do that in front of representatives of international financial institutions. Mrs. Pavlovic said that the net profit for the EPS was 17.3 billion dinars in 2016, that 87.4 billion dinars were paid into Serbia's budget, that the restructuring signed from 2014 to 2019, for two years of restructuring for 2015 and 2016, gave that 2,000 workers left the EPS with certain severances, 500 of them retired, so this is the natural outflow, that in the next three years they will also be restructured with 3,600 employees. What else did the 2016 report show? That the EPS reduced the material costs by 1.1 billion dinars, that the fuel cost reduction was 1.2 billion, and the maintenance costs by 7.7 billion dinars, that the reduction in costs related to the insurance and representation alone were 1.5 billion dinars. So when we talk about efficient business, about restructuring in general the functioning of public enterprises, then we're talking about rationalising exactly the costs of a public company. In addition to being paid into the budget of 87.4 billion dinars, it represents 34% more than in 2015, which is in fact 8.5% of Serbia's total revenues. Investments and maintenance alone amounted to 4.3 billion dinars for the year, of which 2.6 is investment and maintaining 1.7 billion. So we're talking about EPS, a public company that we've been listening to today and yesterday unwittingly, that there's no means, that in fact we retailers in the campaign, we've had a chance to listen to how we're about to privatise the EPS, and we're talking about a public enterprise that, in the first three months, is 20% less business compared to these results we're talking about right now. This means that the EPS as a public undertaking has nevertheless proved to be a highly responsible public undertaking and that the management that, after restructuring and the new Energy Act, which was adopted three years ago, has shown real efficiency in its business, given that there are seven executive directors, not as at the time of those most rebelling 600 directors and 600 cabinets. When we talk about the "Electro Network of Serbia" and when we talk about the regional energy efficiency programme in the transmission system and the first phase of the trans-Balkan corridor, whoever was the director so far has failed to complete five trafo stations totaling 1,600 megavolts of amper and failed to complete certain stations that referred to "Belgrade 20" and "Branje 4" and failed to establish the electricity market with certain results and failed in a certain way to invest 196m euros in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So the state-of-the-art electricity transmission company in the region is the "Electro Network of Serbia". Today, after four years, when it was taken over by representatives of the SNS and when it was shown, regardless of what representatives of the ruling party were presented, it could redefine the relationship with the functioning of public enterprises. What should be said in the end when it comes to public enterprises in general and when we have had the opportunity to hear that competitions were called for the first time after many years of those who talked about professionalisation and management and directors of public enterprises, it should be said that the adoption of the new Law on Public Enterprises here, in this Parliament, of this parliamentary majority, has been called 24 contests, that over 200 candidates have appeared in these 24 competitions, shows one of the democratic excerpts that this assembly majority of government has shown here. It also showed the essence of being ready to deal with the major problems left to us by 2012 and with regard to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as with the functioning of public enterprises. Obviously, the reform of the public enterprises that were so talked about has been initiated and is clearly giving first results. This is what these financial reports show, and anyone who wants to forget that in 2014 there have been floods not only recorded in the last 1,000 years, and anyone who does not want to face climate change as one of the important factors of functioning, not only the economy of one state, but all public enterprises and the functioning of the budget, not only Serbia, but the countries of the region and the EU, if you will, after all, for which they single out large budgets, shows that it is malignant. So, climate change, we are aware that they have a strong impact on the functioning of not only the energy system, but on the general economic system in Serbia. That is why it is necessary, when we talk about the protection of the environment and climate change, that we always take into account certain changes that suggest that we must meet new technologies. It is precisely one of the ways in which the serious, responsible state, in an extremely transparent way, wants to manage public finances, but also wants to manage the functioning of the energy system. What I want in the end, when the "Electro Network of Serbia" is not to forget, let me say, for the first time in our political practice, but also in the practice of functioning a public enterprise, comes to the head of the "Electro Networks of Serbia" one woman. Current V.D. The director is Mrs. Jelena Matejic. She is the first woman practically director of a republican public enterprise, since so far we have never had such a function performed by one woman for the republican public enterprises. Therefore, I must admit that, at the time of Mr Antic's term of office, he shows one ease in your cooperation and shows that in the future, such changes bring really good results. After all, the woman is also the financial director of Elektroprivreda Serbia, who presented the EPS business in public. This shows that in the future, the jender programme, which was adopted by Minister Vujovic in the previous budget for 2016 and 2017, is indeed giving some results. I think this Serbian government has set great tasks and great goals for each of the next governments. I think it will be very difficult for every next prime minister to overcome Prime Minister Vukic's work, but also for the sake of these ministers, because these exact data in general in business and public enterprises and the realisation of the budget show that in one extremely responsible way and in a host way the Serbian budget is managed, but in an extremely responsible way both foreign and internal policies and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also in general the Republic of Serbia, when we talk about the adoption of the law of the parliament itself. So in the voting day, I will invite all MPs, not only the ruling coalition, but also the opposition parties to really support such legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16511	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16512	Thank you. Of course, one of these two injuries I want to point out is not you, but President Gojkovic, I ask you to pass it on to her.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16513	Just tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16514	Art. 100th and 109th. Article 100. The president has already become a little carried out, and on several occasions instead of holding the session, she has been engaged in discussions with the MPs, and to what, in accordance with Article 100, she has no right. Namely, if she wants to talk to the MPs, about her views, about what she thinks about the fact that Zvezdan Jovanovic calls police officers angry dogs and frames the police, what she thinks about our other legal proposals, how much the majority of SNS won, etc., all this can do when she leaves the presidency to the Assembly, sits down in the parliamentary bench, picks up the word, and then, as an equal talker, participates in the debate with her colleagues, and not from the seat of the president of the Assembly, where she gives lectures, excludes microphones, parts of warnings, invents insults that were allegedly addressed to her, etc. That's one injury. The second relates to the circumstances under which counterpart Maja Vidinovic was warned. Article 109 is very clear in which situations are being warned to the MP, so it is said, when he approached the speaker without permission, who speaks before he asked and received his word, he speaks in addition to the warning about issues that are not on the agenda. Just explain to me what conditions did my colleague Maja Vidinović fulfill to receive a warning or receive a warning, as we believe, only because she asked to receive the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure or what is from the DS?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16515	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. I don't think I've done any damage to the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to the members you pointed to, I would not further explain the arguments and measures expressed by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the arguments were appropriate at some point and were heading towards preserving the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16516	Thank you. These days we had the opportunity to, as far as we could, talk, relatively constructively. I must admit that there are ministers here, as far as I've been on different sides, who have shown a higher dose, I would say, understanding and seriousness than some, I'm not saying everything, far from that, of fellow ruling ranks, who seem confused by constructive debate and then simply looking for an opportunity to have a fight here. I admit, there are various of us, and I'm not saying that MPs are always innocent on this side, but let's go back, a few minutes at my disposal, to the point. Yes, Mr. Vujovic, regardless of what you are extremely eloquent when you explain why debt or credit or some loan is a good thing, the fact is that we are in charge or in debt for these five days, as you have been visiting us on these two occasions, for 283m euros. That's a fact. The second fact, too, is that there is no doubt that there are positive shifts in the EPS, and I don't care who is responsible for these shifts, as well as who is responsible for the fact that the EPS situation is not better, the fact is that the Prime Minister himself, as well as the minister here, says that the situation can be better, and we are only on that line talking. As part of my colleagues, I think it's part of those reasons that the condition is not better management behaviour or the unqualification of management at the head of the V.D., Director General, Mr. Greek. You can, colleagues, have a different opinion, and that's just legitimate. I strongly, before I became an MP, fought and advocated the sale of Telecom, of course, and the EPS and I, in that sense, were very glad that you were here loud and clear, removing one of my dilemmas from the public, therefore, not in front of me, and told MPs that EPS was not packed for sale and there was no idea that there was neither EPS nor Elektro Networks. It's very important and it should be known. It should be heard and I will welcome it, as I have fought and against the sale of Telecom. I did not fight the sale of Telecom because Mr. Milojevic Zelja led the daughter of Telecoma to KIM, which is registered under Kosovo laws and, of course, not only Mr. Milojevic, but also others at the head of important public enterprises for which they are not simply qualified. So, that state property, that state interest, but to be people as-so competent for that activity. After all, I am glad to hear from Mr Vujovic that he is falling, that Serbia's general public debt falls, but also the fact that he has not been heard of for five years is growing. He grew five years, or at least four and a half years, for the government's mandate. It grew up in absolute amount, it reached over $24 billion, or sorry euros, and grew and percentageally compared to GDP. You said that the last month has been falling and I look forward to saying hello, but the fact is that five years is constantly growing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16517	I thank Mr. Vukadinovic. Time's up, three minutes. Mr. Orlic, right on the line? Another two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16518	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nervous, obviously, and serious anxiety, has prevailed today on the other side of the hall. And we see that in this debate at the tide, and we saw it at those press conferences, that in some media there was any, even the slightest speculation that there was some possibility that there might be some choice in this country. It panics right now. And that panics the heavy category. All those who were great winners in the elections this year, today they started advertising in this room, running to press conferences and explaining -- no, no, just no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Why? Well, because they're such big winners. Because they're triumphantly triumphant and now they're advertised here, and all the time, they see it in their eyes, that play about the great triumph they've declared, it looks the same, if not for the greater triumph, who will surely experience it in the elections when there are. What are they telling us and who's telling us? Here, now Kosovo and Metohija again. But by whom? Now I ask, both the chairman and the people's MPs and the people who are watching this, whether by the MP's group of that Vuk Jeremic, who has been so successful in Kosovo and Metohija that he has donated, literally, the opinion of the International Court of Justice to separatists from Pristina. He has helped them so nicely today, Flyor Chetaku, who is the self-called ambassador, and the self-called state, which has recently been shot at by those rotten eggs, says that the crown of their imaginary independence is precisely the opinion of the International Court of Justice. Do you care about Kosovo and Metohija? You worry. Did Zvezdan Jovanovic mention to us here those who were best friends with him, who loaned him phantoms and long pipes and sent him to arrest the former president of the Republic, who organized celebrations, parties, drug deals and government jobs with him? Are these people who are dealing with Serbia today and are terribly concerned about it? No, I don't. They'll be worried only about their 1%, 2% to 4% in the election, and that'll be too soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16519	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Replica. Mr. Vukadinović, you? You're not mentioned in the presentation. Mr. Orlic mentioned Mr. Vuk Jeremic. Do you represent Mr. Vuk Jeremic? You're in that capacity... (Jorge Vukadinovic: No, but he thinks I am. That's what you realized that he thinks, probably. I don't know why you are. (Jorge Vukadinovic: I am right. You don't, really. You know very well that we just made a deal to get you some extra time, so you can explain, now you don't have a basis for replication, really. You haven't mentioned it directly for a moment. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16520	I thank the chairman. In agreement with Mrs Gojkovic, President of the National Assembly, my colleague Vujovic and I did not report that we are responding to every final word of the authorised representatives of political parties, but we are also using our right to the final word at the end of the discussion, so I would now try to comment and refer to what is said. First of all, I would refer to what Mrs. Tomic spoke about about the election of Mrs. Matejic as the director of JP "Electro Networks of Serbia", I really don't know about this information that Mrs. Matejic is the first lady to be the director of a public enterprise. If this information is correct, then it's a good thing it happened, I'm happy it's in the energy company and I hope it's just going to be a first step and it's going to be a very fast practice in other sectors as well. I have the privilege of having a lot of ladies in my environment, starting with the president and vice president of the board of directors, Mrs Petrovic and Mrs Tomic, through the Secretary of State and Assistant in my Ministry, Director of Public Enterprise, Executive Directors of Public Enterprises, so that this is a normal thing in the Energy Sector, and I believe a very good thing. I would like to thank Mr. Bauer, Mrs. Tomic and my colleague, dear Mrs. Paunovic, for the comments on the laws that are on the agenda today and on a very serious, thorough analysis of Mr. Bauer's entire system "Transbalkan Corridor" and one high-level, yet professional, and I believe, professional understanding of the whole issue and indeed one remarkable analysis that we have heard here today. To this I would just add that this is the first phase of the “Transbalkan Corridor”, we should think slowly about the second stage. The second stage is the corridor that would go from the southeast, to Turkey, and that direction of energy production and transport and energy towards Central and Western Europe, which would cross again through Serbia, again at 400 sqm, and that, I repeat, next to this stage, is really one serious chance for Serbia, for Serbia to become one transit country for the largest amount of energy that will go from parts where produced at some lower prices, to those parts of Europe where it has its own market and where it can be sold at higher prices. Serbia has a good position in the part, Serbia is in this part and in this part of Europe, and from the point of view of transmission, is a control area and a bloc that, I say, balances other countries as well. We will, hopefully, make good use of that position in the future. Mrs. Paunovic has given an ecological review of these projects and this segment, for us, and is one of the key ones and we are just the team led, and these projects have also run before international institutions. I would like to remind myself that the “Transbalkan Corridor” is a project that is also supported by VB6 formats of co-operation in the Western Balkans, that this is a project that is also recognised by the EU, as a top priority project. Of course, Mrs Tomic, one broad aspect of all these issues regarding both the EPS and the ESM. Regarding certain issues raised by colleagues from other parliamentary clubs, Mr Djurisic asked about the Japanese loan, that is, the project we are working with Djaika, related to the detour in Tent A. The project, although faced with a large number of problems, challenges, is ending. We are now at the end of the technical evaluation of the offers that have been delivered, followed by the opening of the financial part of the offer and I think that, somewhere there, in September of the month, this will be completed and that we will have this contract ready for signing, so that this big project that I repeat started to be done in 2011, is being completed and will definitely have a contract by the end of this year. I have repeatedly commented on the purchase of actions that the "Electro Networks of Serbia" made in the "Electronos of Montenegro" and became co-owner with 10% of actions. I repeat, we do not follow the state of stock and stock market in Montenegro, which is quite shallow and we have to agree, as such is relatively and I do not know how much reference it is to observe the value of these actions and some of their changes at such a short time interval. For me, this is a key issue of exactly strategic nature, I personally think, and we are all here politically thinking that this is a good strategic project, considering this is exactly what we have talked about and the transbalkan corridor and the construction of a cable and definitely one significant place and the role that Montenegro's Elektroprivreda will play in realising this project. For the past two days, I had a very serious discussion with my counterpart Ciric about energy production, for certain reasons the decline in production in the first quarter observed compared to the same period last year. I repeat, we're not happy about this fall, so no one is even defending it, we're just analyzing and explaining it. We fully understand each of the reasons why this fall occurred in the first quarter of 2017 and the reasons are exactly what we were talking about. So, extremely bad hydrology. I repeat, from the beginning of the year to today, production in the hydro sector is 87% and 13% lower than in the hydro sector last year. We have all the same capacities available, all except one in Gerdap, but we have this job with the Russians, with the power machines, the rehabilitation of Gerdap takes years, and we're doing one turbine at a time. So the same number of objects and the same capacity is available last year and this year, but 13% is less production, which is due to poor hydrology. I said during today's debate, as one piece of information that I believe everyone understands, last year in January of the 678 GWh flow power plant, this year 445 GWh. It's a 34% reduction and exclusively due to the frozen Danube. If some weren't in that period this year in Serbia and they don't remember it, it wasn't long ago, we were all in the O.R. and we remember it very well. So this hydrology problem has been transmitted to us in other months, and that's one reason. The second reason lies in the fact that in January we had one number of extremely cold days where the daily temperatures did not exceed ten, and the nights went to minus twenty and when for the sake of safety and for the technology of the work system we had to each car that drove coal from Kolubara to TEN to cool off before we unloaded it. That's double the flow of that railroad. Instead of driving 100,000 tons of coal daily, we drove 50,000 tons of coal. Defacto put this in a position where we have to take it off the dump, and it's impossible to completely replace this continuous production by removing the dump. So we had a small production, and we had to get off the dump. That's what we're getting back now. We're going back pretty well and we're going to recover that dump by the beginning of the next winter season. The third reason is what we talked about more yesterday than today, and it's about some kind of instability, or glider that came to us in field D that as such needs to give us half the production of coal that has even greater caloric value than Tamnava, the Western field. So we had this slide, in front of 2.6 km, at the end of February, so from the end of February to 12 April we didn't have that full production of coal in Colubara, field D. What more, I have to say that it was symbolic production. We only got out in early April, so on April 12th we went out, it seems to me to be at 20-25 thousand tons, and before that we worked 5-10 thousand tons a day, which seriously disrupted the balance. We're trying to get it back now. Serious activities both in the EPS and in the Colubary to bring it back. It's not easy to return such a fall, it's a serious amount of coal and kilowatt to compensate for. It's just not easy. When it comes to coal, we're doing better. When it comes to electricity, we're getting weaker because we still have worse hydrology. The achievement in May, with today in the hydro sector is 94%, means 6% less than last year. It's not worth it. It's not up to us. We're trying what depends on us, which is coal and it's the work of the thermo sector to make up for it. We will conduct a fully transparent policy towards Parliament and the general public. There are no secrets and with all that information you will be adequately informed. A colleague of Obradovic, with respect to him and Mr. Ciric for staying here and waiting, of course, for Vukadinovic, unlike some who spoke and left, now I don't even know if I should answer them, I owe one answer first. We have to be correct people and I always try to be. You asked one question about the EMS which is definitely from our public enterprises according to their model of operation, by the way they have established business and production cycles it seems to me to be the best in Serbia. I'm not gonna say it because it's in my sector that it's best, but it's around here somewhere. You asked – why did Mr. Petrovic not remain director? Mr. Nikola Petrovic was the director of the public company at the time for four years, now it is a.d., closed, owned by the Republic of Serbia 100%. He was the director for four years, and I am absolutely convinced that this job worked very well and that the EMS for this reason has just come to this level so that we can say that in my opinion he is one of the best in Serbia. Mr Petrovic has expired his term. For four years he was out of office, his personal decision was that he did not want to compete and to extend his stay there. That's something I think might be a little strange in Serbia. Here rarely when people say - I've been doing my job for four years and now I want to do something else. He is now vice president of the Chamber of Commerce and has another way of achieving his professional career. I think you should respect that. There's no story there that could open up in such a way that you ask why it didn't. With their own decision, and I think everyone should respect that. You asked me -- do I feel responsible for 75 years of how many Socialists and communists are in power? Let me tell you, I am absolutely proud of all the traditions and all the political history and genealogy of the SPS and those left-wing ideas in Serbia. I'm proud of what was done in the energy sector for all that time. I have to say that all the energy facilities we own today were built at the exact time when the SPS or our predecessors were in power. In this time when those ideologies that may have been closer to you before or in the meantime, nothing was built in energy, so it's one grade without a dilemma. There's one question that has intrigued me so much and a little bit of a misunderstanding of what I'm asking myself as a question of concern. Both Mr. Obradovic and Mr. Radulovic asked me if we could answer here today that the Serbian companies and minority companies that the companies will work on on these projects will be related to the migration and the Trans-Balkan Corridor. People, that question is really very controversial. We are at the stage when we ran for KfW to obtain loans to produce the final project documentation preceding the tender. So what are you asking me now, gentlemen dear? Do we before the tender know who's going to do the job? I don't understand the question, and I hope your question wasn't serious. Because if it were serious, it would lead to a question of whether there would be a tender? Without doubt, we will offer absolutely one open match, fair conditions will have all the companies and in that tender will surely be able to participate domestic companies. We will not allow or create such conditions that disqualify domestic knowledge and domestic industry. In addition to that, I have to draw here one piece of information that I believe you know, but the general public needs to know. The government is seriously insisting and this government is setting serious conditions for all foreign companies that are working on projects under interstate agreements, and related to the participation of domestic industry in the realisation of these projects. Serbian firms are working on a 50 per cent percentage of jobs and on road construction and on building energy facilities precisely because we insist on it. I guess it is quite clear that the government that is fighting for GDP growth, which is fighting for its own economy and Serbia's economic development, is struggling to work Serbian companies on these projects. I have to say, these are day-to-day fights, on a daily basis. I must also say that we are very successful at this. I am absolutely confident that we will ensure that our industry is growing on the development of these projects. Finally, here the SNS colleagues have already outlined the issue several times, Mr. Radulovic has a problem admitting that it is not true that EPS is operating with profits. Serbia's electricity industry, like all other energy companies, worked positively in 2015 and 2016. I repeat, 2015. The EPS had an EBIDU of 46 billion dinars or 275m euros, 2016 more than 47 billion dinars or more than 280m euros. These are very good results, and I hope that trend continues. In the absence of arguments, Mr. Radulovic draws as an asset from the 2014 deadlines, it is really not correct because absolutely everyone in this hall and the whole of Serbia remembers what kind of disaster the energy sector went through during the floods, primarily because of the fact that Kolubara has filled us with Tamnavu - the Western field and the Eastern field, made the largest artificial lake that we have excavated with severe torment. I thank everyone once again for the very constructive discussions, and I call on the Assembly to support these legal projects in the voting day, and I especially focus on those that are important for the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16521	I thank you, Minister Antic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16522	Thank you very much. We've spent a lot of time talking about these suggestions. Let me begin by saying that if I compare the debate on this set of laws and guarantees, we have been given much more quality discussion and quality suggestions that affect both our thinking and future activities. Therefore, I am very grateful to all MPs who have made a very good effort to understand what this is about and have made a very good contribution to thinking on these topics. Secondly, I think we've confirmed here that we know what to do in the future and that it's better to have more and more complete information about these documents. We've remained within the framework of what's written in the law today, but I think we can raise the scale ourselves in the future and provide a higher standard of information. I can tell you that we have in the accompanying documents a complete cost structure. Of the 56.8 million this project amounts to 45 is financed from the KfW loan, and 20%, i.e. 11.8 million is financed by the EPS. In the case of the EMS, in addition to the 15 million from the loan, KfW provides a grant of 6.8 million. Hence, there are relatively more favourable conditions. There are no secrets, the equipment is 27 million, insurance and transportation one million, installations seven million, engineering works 7.4, so-called "civil works" construction works 9.7 million, consulting services that have been mentioned several times 2.5 million in this larger project and one million in this smaller project, with one million from a grenade. So here with 2.5 million, that's about 6% of the credit value, less than 6% of the credit value. Everything will be done according to our public procurement rules. When someone says: "The rules are respected, it's written like that, it's a temperate, it's written by the rules of the lender, and in fact they respect the so-called "Temmlate." general EU rules. The moment we advance in the negotiations of Chapter 5 on public procurement and when we meet these conditions, then they will say their rules that are equal to our domestic rules. Therefore, it is a motivation for all of us, including a parliament that has the right to see the quality of public procurement to achieve this and to achieve it. At the same time, I welcome many criticisms, implicit criticisms that we don't have the best system and we don't go well in that system of public procurement, but they are the right people who have their own interests. It is up to us to adapt, to equip ourselves from the stage of project ideas to the phase of project planning, to be competitive. I'm telling you, this country had a better quality and project preparation and project implementation 20 and 30 years ago, and we have to try to get that back. You can't compete without it on foreign markets, and you can see it can't be on ours. Therefore, we could and we could do it again. Just let us systematically invest in it. Therefore, instead of complaining and trying to throw out others, it would be good to invest money in something that I would call credit-preparation funds and finance both our institutes and our capacity to be equal. We can't do it overnight, but we can try. What is the essence of these loans? We're in debt, but not 282 million, 182 million are free money on extremely favourable terms that we will definitely refinance if we don't change the level of fiscal liquidity. So there's no reason not to use it to repay the most unfavourable loans and it won't be an increase in debt. Out of 100 million, 100 million will be a new debt, 45 plus 15, plus 40. So 60 plus 40 is 100. In the previous debate, we talked about this 40 million loan that the European Investment Bank is funding for prisons. We have decided that these are very favourable conditions for something that is justly necessary. We also meet the standards for those who maintain penalties and fulfil our obligation and at the same time use funds that are extremely favourable. The European Investment Bank has among the lowest interest rates and the best conditions it has. They have no developed project assessment capacity, but they are very competitive in the rates they offer. As I said, KfW is a development bank and it is primarily oriented, except for the projects in Germany, to support projects that fit into their concept of supporting expenditure. Here, in particular, one project is aimed at achieving environmental standards and providing building material, thus ensuring the financial viability of the project. The second project is aimed at raising network capacity, at the same time the transit capacity of the network, which also means it meets that aspect of efficiency, i.e. vomiting of funds. I don't think there's any dilemma, and these effects are much greater than these average effects. The 0.8% dilemma, plus 0.75% of the so-called front and fair, which all banks charge, someone charges in absolute amount, calculated on this loan of 45 million 0.75% 1% would be 450 thousand, right, to 45 million. So if it was 100 million, it would be one million, at 45 million 450, 0.75% divide that 3/4 of that, so below 400 grand. So below 400,000 costs all their costs, their grades, their genealogy, the administration of that loan. Those are the rules. You pay a quarter of that for 45 million the first day, then the amount you didn't use. If you use everything on the first day, it's theoretically impossible, you won't be paying any general intercalary interest. So if you had the "key in hand" project ready, you're just funding, you're financing everything, you're pulling the credit, the interclave interest would be 0.25%, but you'd pay nothing, and everybody has it. I don't know any bank that doesn't have that. Because someone has to cover the difference between the liquid assets that stand in the account at sight and wait to be withdrawn, and the fixed funds. It's about this debt. So 182 million is being refinanced, and the debt is growing, 100 million will grow when we withdraw the funds, not before that. Total debt, down. We fought for a long time, we had a situation to get by the inert, like a bus, when you press on the brake he continues to go another 100 meters before the speed goes down, you can turn around. So now we're stopping debt growth. Now the debt begins from 24.8 billion on December 31st to 24.5 billion on March 31st, on April 24.15th, and the latest information that hasn't been published will be published in two days, that's 23.9 billion on May 18th. We don't brag, but it's hard to stop a size that's critical, and therefore you know very well that it depends on what GDP is and what debt is. It's very important for us to move in the direction of the Mastricht. When we reach it, it is less important, it is important that we gradually approach it each year. Note, debt can be a good friend, if funds are carefully planned, if they are not borrowed for which there is no reason. In these two projects, it seems to me that there is a reson, and in prison it was socially and socially justified, and here it is ecologically justified and justified from the point of view of the ESM's capacity, which is one of the most efficient enterprises in Serbia. It achieves profit, and performs, practically one, irreplaceable regional service and provides Serbia with integration into wider energy networks. Two guarantees mean they extend these projects, two laws allow the possibility of better managing the foreign funds of the Deposit Insurance Agency. I can see that wrongly, I've quoted what's written here in the law, that I'm being corrected at a press conference today, and they say the National Bank is gone. That's all it's written, the National Bank hasn't used foreign exchange records in the last few years, but it's been put here to basically be able to use it when it's done. So this agency has something in dinars too, and it wasn't my intention to invent for the People's Bank, but I was quoting something we wrote together with colleagues from the National Bank. Therefore, this proposal of the text we have written together, I have quoted what is written in the text, so that it leaves the possibility that if the National Bank uses it, it can be used because there is no difference in the quality of the charter issued by the State, the National Bank, since the consolidated public sector balance includes both the People's Bank and what is called the State in a narrow sense. Now, let me explain this risk thing and the basic reason behind this. So, in this situation where we have a situation where the Deposit Insurance Agency didn't come to zero, and it didn't ask the state to borrow two loans, one that was paid, and the other that stayed in reserve form, we wouldn't propose this. We'd tell the Agency, you take from every bank, I don't know how much 0.15% at 15 billion, 80 million a year, and they'd charge it, keep it at the necessary level, we wouldn't get absolutely involved in it. However, what happened happened and we, in order to justify the expectations of the savings savings offered to the savings, we did all of this and brought the Deposit Insurance Fund to zero. The zero-level fund doesn't offer any assurance that he's sure to invest in banks. In order not to rule out a negative expectation, we were simply in a position to try to secure a system intervention that puts it back to normal and back into operation. The deal is, these two loans stand there until the contributions of commercial banks return the Fund to the required level, and then the state will gradually withdraw. Now follow me, logic is next, since we took 145m euros as a debt without compensation to the agency and said, you will return, because we have a complete guarantee, it is our complete risk. Then we say, why should we add besides that cost that we already have to add to that another cost of negative interest. Since the risk doesn't increase, no debt, no risk. We say, just get those funds back into those records. Since it's marginal size, it's one percent debt. Less than one percent of the debt, that's less, that's one and a half percent of the foreign reserve and less than one percent of the debt. This will not affect either the emissions of new charters or the market situation. It's so small you won't even notice. It can be picked up on the market on one show. We said, there's no reason for the Agency to say in its annual report, we're getting help from the state and look how much help it costs us. Em, we pay the interest, we pay the loan, we pay the negative interest. So we said, let's try at least in that part to help make it look logical. We are prepared to accept, in a discussion in the amendments, that it should be limited. I take these suggestions seriously. Some colleagues said in the discussions whether it's how we link the risk. I accept those criticisms and say, "We may increase the risk if we go over this amount." Well, we can limit the amount either to say or to that amount or limit it to one quarter of the Agency's reserve and say, no more. It's okay that we don't pay negative interest on the part that the state has already given, and this second one, let the Agency manage itself. By the way, this parliament approved these laws for the Deposit Insurance Fund. The agency was almost a year and a half ago, where it was given a much higher degree of independence, more quality, more transparent management. Therefore, we leave them to govern. This just allows them to turn to the state and say, please, we would like for that and that, and we reserve the right to say, excuse me, interest rates are so little, please don't spoil the whole thing because of some minimum amount. This sum of half a million losses, it seems to me it's already big enough to say, basically, you can. So, a very real, realistic approach to it. I've already said that, I've said this for liquidity, so they've got a hundred million unpunished, there's 200, so they're getting ready or they've already canceled the table, because they don't think they need more than a hundred million in reserve. So they have a hundred million lines of the IBRD of the European Bank, which they can pull at any moment. Now, that's where they pay that intercal interest. So that's where they pay that interkalay interest to make those funds available, and they're going to pay real interest, only if they withdraw those funds. Finally, public debt management is a complex matter. So you have securities from value, you have loans, commercial loans, project loans, loans to support the budget, you have guarantees. So you're managing one complex system that has different manuals and it's almost impossible that in every transaction you can justify everything and a small picture and details and a big picture. What matters is that global parameters are improving. If we can give you detailed reports. Every manual, has lower interest rates every year since 2012. So every year every handiwork has a lower one. So, we've been doing cheaper work in each handpiece for the last five years. It's better every year. Some years is a significant improvement, some years a little less improvement. Another important thing, we didn't have a ten-year manual at first. So no one even wanted to consider some instruments especially in a dinar for ten years. We thought we were too risky an environment to even have someone talk to. Today we have a handiwork. She is together, but she exists. Another important thing, at first we didn't have a ten-year maturity, so no one wanted to consider some instruments, especially in dinars for 10 years, we thought we were too risky an environment to even talk to. Today we have a handiwork. It is expensive, but it exists in dinars are interest rates today by 5% points, not 5%, but 5% for so-called five hundred base points these lower than it was in foreign exchanges as well. Yes, we are more expensive than others. We now have those fronts from 200 to 300 base points, and they were sixth. So they were two and a half times taller, so we're paying a much smaller premium today. Someone quoted it in a few today, I understand you, the global financial market is unequal. It gives the best treatment to those who have the most and the most penalize those who have the least. But we get out of that worst point every day and every year we improve our status. Today we came to the countries that were, that's very important. When we were 600, and once the loans were 400, now we're together at 250 base points. So we caught up with some countries, not to name countries, and that's very good, because we're in the same situation in the same game. Finally, something about the future. We're doing this, we've got results. Are we satisfied? We are partly, but our ambitions are much greater. Our goal is to have better profiles, I'm not saying that our firm has ideal conditions, but today is much better than five years ago. Our goal is to be fully equal. Do we have a Development Bank? We have failed attempts. We want to learn something from this and make a development bank that we'll be proud of, which, here I'm telling you, when we negotiated these loans, very favourable, the UAE gave us loans at 2% fixed. We get 0.7% of the World Bank variable, but they have a triple rating, which they pass on to us. Here we got independent, we as Serbia got a "tripley rating", without conditioning. That we have a Development Bank, which everyone believes in, so we've got two billion more from some donors, who would trust us that we can invest in the right way. Therefore, the money will be, if we can offer a good standard both in the preparation of projects and in the evaluation of projects and in the transparent system. I'm not against your wishes, but I'm telling you it won't go directly. You cannot tell them. Give us your money. We will send you a report. But you have to convince them it's the right way to get results. I've already told them the World Bank gives Serbia five times as much money, because now they know we're making what we say we're going to do. And finally just one anecdote for the end, when I came to the World Bank, so I asked such things, as a young economist in 1979, it was a long time ago, a colleague told me -- remember one thing, the golden rule is that those who have the right rules of gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-19-0.u16523	I thank Minister Vujovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in items 1 to 6 of the agenda. You can't do it twice, you used the right of Article 96, and I've just concluded a common single principle on the proposals for acts in paragraphs 1 to 6 of the agenda. We continue our work Monday, May 22nd at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
