ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27754	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27755	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I refer my question to the President of the National Assembly. It has already been a year and a half since the constitution of the National Assembly in this assembly, and we have not yet brought the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly, which opposes all parliamentary democratic traditions, which opposes the basic principles of parliamentary law as a special branch of law, is still working on the Ottoman Rules of Procedure. That's why we're getting into more and more dubiosis, more and more problems, all the major violations of the basic constitutional principles. For example, the Budget Law, which is passed every year, is one of the most important laws. If the Budget Law falls, the Government automatically falls, and we bring this law practically into a situation where almost no MP will be able to discuss it. What has happened has never happened since the restoration of Serbian parliamentaryism, and God forbid it happened in the 19th century, in the then Serbian National Assembly, would have been a rebellion. The government and opposition would be chasing around Belgrade, so strong a sense of democracy among our 19th-century ancestors. When the King suddenly disbanded the National Assembly, he feared rebellion and coup, it was calm for us to bind the Budget Law to another 30 laws, which had nothing to do with it or had nothing to do with it, for one single reason to prevent the debate on the budget. The budget law would have to be discussed on its own, if nothing else were to interfere with it, even if there were no restrictions on the times used by MPs. If it takes the MP two hours to talk about the budget, even though he's obviously saying too much, if he obviously hasn't lost his mind at the pay phone, we have to listen to him calmly and patiently, even if he's sitting around day and night. And with us, it's all the way formalized, we're not even able to read the draft budget law, we're not left with enough time, we're burdened with other laws. And now, our MPs who have prepared themselves cannot talk about details, they will not be able to talk about the amendments, because someone else has eaten their time. It's 600 minutes in the Rules of Procedure, 600 minutes in total everyone can speak. The ruling party has now agreed to come up with non-stop amendments that are not technically possible. The government answered them that way, but they keep wasting that time to make it impossible for us, who criticise the budget, to say anything. This is something that is illegal, and we must take care of the reputation of our country, and our country's reputation is not based on the introduction of order in the National Assembly of Kamdzijah and the persecution of the opposition, but rather on the reputation of the state, the democratic reputation of the state is maintained by the tolerance of the opposition, especially when such important essential laws are being discussed. The government, when the budget is debated, must be most tolerated towards the opposition. The government has to literally allow the opposition to say what they want. Especially a government that has a total majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27756	You're bringing the end of Mr. Seselj. Thank you. Ask for another sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27757	There is no possibility of a draft Budget Law falling, you are calm here, but there is the possibility of something unpleasant being said to the public about the budget, which is what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27758	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27759	I thank the chairman. My first question to the Republic Public Prosecutor, Mrs. Zagorki Dolovac, which is, is whether and what she has done about the motion to ban the work of the National Serb Front, which Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted at the Prosecutor's Office on 5 December of this year, since the Republic Public Prosecutor in his jurisdiction has just proposed a ban on the functioning of organisations that are acting contrary to the Constitution and the law, and we have evidence that it is happening with the Organisation of the National Serb Front and, therefore, what she has done under this initiative in order to put it in the form of a proposal and refer it to the Constitutional Court, as it is. This organization, I recall, was registered in March 2016, and we believe that only the cover for the operation of Goran Davidovic, a Fuhrer who has been on the run in Italy for almost ten years after the attack on the antifascist column in Novi Sad and that this organization is not only a front for him, but also for his former organizations National Machine. I also remind Mrs Dolovac that the newly established national Serb front has been held for more than a year in the official premises of the city of Belgrade, public gatherings in which it promotes national, religious and racial hatred and an armed fight against all others and different ones. Among other things, it advocates a society based on discrimination between certain ethnic, religious, sexual groups, as I said, on the contrary, not only in the law, but in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And the most frequent associates of the national Serbian front are British professors Nick Griffin and Jean Dawson, he also presents himself as James Dawson, the holocaust negator, the propagators of Islamophobia, and it is very important for me to enter into the stenographic notes every word I say here, and which is already forbidden to enter Hungary. But they are therefore free to walk around the Republic of Serbia, in the city of Belgrade and in the official premises of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the KIM Office. I asked the question last time and the answer from the director of the KIM office, I did not get about how Griffin and Dawson embraced Misa Vacic, are staying and meeting in the official rooms of the Serbian government in the Serbian Palace. Hence my next question for the MUP and Minister Stefanovic. Has he initiated or initiated anything, in connection with the ban on entering the Republic of Serbia, these already proven pro-fascist ideologists Griffin and Dawson, since the Foreigning Law allows it. In my deep conviction, there are several grounds for multiple points of Article 11. Foreign law, to initiate a ban on these British citizens and on the pro-fascist propagators of our country. While we are also at Dawson and Griffin, I ask again the Republic Public Prosecutor, Mrs. Dolovac, as long as it has arrived at the death threat procedure that was sent to me several days ago, since the Ministry announced that a certain Tomo Lovrekovic had been detained, what I learned from the media, that he was then released, which I also learned from the media, since from the media or the address of the public, the prosecution and the MUP found out about what I was most directly interested in, given that the death threats were sent to me personally, I ask whether Misa Vacic was also detained during the investigation, since he was a person who had intensely propagated and published death threats, which Lovrekovic signed. So, for me, that's close cooperation. Also, I ask the MUP and the police minister whether during the investigation they came to the site "Two barrels", since both the national Serb front and the obviously right-wing group together with Dawson, mostly and very often there, they publish this themselves, otherwise on their profiles, on social networks, very easy work and available evidence and police and prosecution, and I am curious whether the two barrels locale came into the phase of the MUP and police investigation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27760	The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27761	Thank you, Chairman. My question is for the Minister of Health, Minister of Lonchar. It reads -- what does the minister and ministry intend to do with the Clinical for Infectious Diseases in Belgrade? I personally welcome any investment in health care and that a new clinical centre will be opened in Nis now. I believe that health care is under-invested, but the Infectious Clinic in Belgrade is a reference facility that treats patients from all over Serbia and Republika Srpska, Montenegro. It was built in 1926 and today it is in a completely decrepit state, the building shoots, it is pavilion-type and it simply cannot be fixed, nor can it respond today to those needs, new pathology of infectious diseases that occur, not only in Serbia, but in the world. What's important is that in 1926 when the clinic was built, there was one bathroom on each floor, which was then of course a hit, because most people didn't have it in their houses. Today, however, there are no adequate rooms for isolation, nor are there adequate departments, nor are there adequate modes of work. Today, when Serbia is on the migrant route, the Infectious Clinic gets even more meaning, not only for Serbia, but for the whole region, so if you want to do it for Europe. When one of the migrants is admitted to the Infectious Clinic, which has a high temperature, then doctors usually pray to God that it's "usual influenza", not some haemorrhagic fever or something that could lead to an epidemic, similar to the one we had with the variety of faith in 1972, and we who are a little older, we remember that very well. The clinic's leadership on several occasions has written and requested the construction of a new adequate building, which, whose price would be quite modest, speaks of seven to eightm euros, roughly, addressed both the KCS and the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Public Health, and all of them knew that "yes", however, there was no answer. I believe that today, at a time when the number of infectious diseases is growing, when the number of diseases carried by glaucoma and insects is growing, precisely because of global warming, when we have transplants, and because of immunosuppression, the infectious clinic plays a major role in the resistance to antibiotics is then a geriatric illness that also requires intervention at the infectious clinic, that it simply does not understand the importance of this clinic. However, there remains bitter taste in the mouth, because the clinic is registered to two acres and 64 acres and fear is justified, not only by my colleagues, but also by citizens and Belgrade and Serbia, as the area is located across from the temple of the Holy Sava, here according to Savi and the Clinical Centre that it is not someone's eye. We hope not, so we'd like to hear what has to be said by Minister Loncar and the Ministry. The second question also goes to the address of Minister Loncar, and it is about innovative medicines for Hepatitis C. Namely, we have new medicines everywhere in the environment even in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, we will not even talk about Croatia and Slovenia. Only for us people are treated with interferon and ribavirin, which have been abandoned throughout Europe since 2014. There are also medicines in India and Egypt, but they can't be exported because of the license. So here I ask Mr. Minister - when will these Hepatitis C treatments be put on the positive list?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27762	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27763	I thank the chairman. The first question is the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime. Please provide us with an explanation as to whether and why the order to give up the investigation against Mladjan Dinkic, launched at the end of 2014, on suspicion that Dinkic, as governor of the National Bank, committed an extended crime of abuse of his official position by obtaining over 730 million dinars from banks, and the investigation was suspended on 26 December 2016. The banks benefiting are "National Savings", "Delta Bank", later "Intesa" "The Commercial Bank", "The Pannonian Bank", "Intessa", "Meridian Bank", later "Climate Bank", "Agrobanka", "Kredibanka", "Novosadska Banka", later "Erste Banka", "Vojvodska Banka", "MB Banka", "Metals Banka", ie. later "Vojvodine Development Banka", "Kulska Banka", "OTP Banka", "First Enterprise Bank", then LHB, and "NLB Banka". Furthermore, the question of the interior minister – were they investigated, or were the investigative proceedings against Mladjan Dinkic, since the investigation was launched in 2014 because of the suspicion that Dinkic had committed an extended criminal offence against the official position and that there were still no doubts as to whether Dinkic had abused his official position while performing his public functions? The next question is for the president of the Republic of Serbia – is Mladjan Dinkic still your deputy in the UAE Co-operation Committee? What is the salary on this function, and what are the results of the Committee's work so far? Do you still believe that Mladjan Dinkic committed crimes that are due to end up in prison, as you said in 2006? Next, the question to the Ministry of Education. In the proposal for a budget for 2018, for the distribution of funds to the Ministry of Education, under heading 483, the amount of almost 195 million dinars for fines and pences for court solutions is allocated. Since the Union of Educational Workers' Union has been warning for several years that this is how huge budget money is allocated to pay for the unconscious management of schools by the executives. Please respond to the penalties and whether against school managers, who are responsible for the school’s obtaining punishment, discipline, or other proceedings? We are also interested in when you plan to meet the Agreement on resolving issues, which the Serbian government signed with education workers' unions in 2015? Does the Ministry plan to further increase the salaries of the teaching staff, since this budget makes the profit ratio below one to two, which is almost incomparable and very humiliating in relation to other professions and areas? Did the Ministry of Education honor everything provided for in the strike termination agreement? The next question is for Maja Gojkovic. When will you accept that on the polygraph with me we determine that no one has ever touched you or any other woman and that the statement of the bruise is false? I've repeatedly called in a public invitation to establish it on a polygraph. A second question for Maja Gojkovic when will she call a assembly session on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, to discuss here where the place is, rather than some shameful internal dialogue led by Aleksandar Vukic, to find an explanation for his high treason of Kosovo and Metohija? The next question is for REM – what is the monthly compensation that Pink is obliged to pay REM, is the salary regular and what are the amounts? How much does Pink currently owe REM? The next question is whether an inspection was carried out by REM on "Pink" in the period from 2014 to 2017, whether the programme was broadcast from Serbia or from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and how was "Pink" obliged then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27764	The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27765	Thank you. I refer the issue to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, or Minister Djordjevic. Dear Minister, the reason why I am asking the question today is the problem of several thousand children with disabilities whose parents, or family, face problems and difficulties every day. In 24% of families, one of the parents had to give up work to take care of the child, because these children need constant care and attention, which is why parents are not in a position to work and run out of income. I don't think anyone can be considered a child by the parents themselves and that we need to do something to help these families. Supporting one parent and recognising that parent’s status as being recognised by fosterers is of paramount importance for a disabled or disabled child, who is necessary for the recovery and dignity of life to remain in their natural orchestration surrounded by members of their family. Parents want to get even with foster parents, to get the same rights, because foster parents are paid for it by up to 50,000 dinars, and parents are completely excluded from this support system. Parents in all the problems they face because of child disease are still on the verge of material existence. First of all, I as a parent and then as a national MP representing a single Serbia in this House, and for us, the family is a pillar of society, I ask the question – are they working on the Social Protection Bill in the Ministry? Have they met with representatives of an association made up of parents or children with interference, who have launched a parent status initiative -- a nurse, and received more than 60,000 signatures? Since the adoption of such a law is of paramount importance in order to regulate the fundamental rights and economic position of the children's families with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27766	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27767	Thank you, Chairman. A few days ago, on the International Human Rights Day, a national minority fair was held at the Belgrade Fair. At the fair, Human and Minority Rights Office Director Susana Paunovic said that the Action Plan for Chapters 23 and 24, and in particular that part of it relating to national minorities, made and adopted with the agreement of representatives of all national minorities, is only one in a series of representatives of the state that in this matter is absolute untrue. The representatives of the Bosniaks not only agreed not to this action plan, but all of us who bear the legitimacy of the Bosniaks' representatives are looking for and insisting on the urgent revision of the Action Plan because of the kind adopted by this government, all those requests of the legitimate representatives of the Bosniaks have been expelled. So, as far as Bosniaks are concerned, this plan is illegal, illegal and absolutely does not offer a single solution to the accumulated problems the Bosniak people face in Serbia, starting with unsolved cases of exiled, missing and murdered Bosniaks in Sandzak during the 1990s, representation in courts, prosecutors, police and other state authorities with public authority, and even to textbooks in Bosnian language. People in Sandzak have to literally take their right to education in Bosnian because the state puts obstacles in all possible ways and prevents the exercise of this right. I ask Prime Minister Brnabic to explain why the Government in the domestic and international public is making such a lie when it comes to the process of adopting action plans for Chapters 23 and 24? We have been warning for more than a year that it is necessary to carry out an audit of this action plan. You today have a problem with some of the EU's most important countries blocking the opening of new chapters precisely because of the lack of implementation of the Action Plan for Chapter 23. Even the minister of justice now announces that an audit of the action plan will be joined, although the prime minister, then state administration minister and local self-government, has in this assembly convinced us that action plans cannot be revised. Instead of listening in time to people who have much more experience and knowledge in these areas than you, you, thanks to your stubbornness, stubbornness and persistent rejection of the proposals that are coming, especially those who come from Bosniaks, spend valuable time and stop Serbia, do not remove obstacles that are in our European integration process. So I ask the prime minister if Director of the Human and Minority Rights Office Susana Paunovic has been punished for bringing such non-truths to the public, is the head of the negotiating team punished for such failures in the preparation of negotiations and the opening of chapters and when will someone start to be responsible for what he does in responsible places? Since I also mentioned the National Minorities Fair at the beginning of the exhibition, I am asking the Prime Minister and the Director of the Office for Human and Minority Rights for an explanation that has even come up with the idea that the National Minorities Fair, in addition to car fairs, agriculture, furniture, is being organised by the National Minorities Fair? Let me read you the definition of the fair. The fair – a meeting of sellers and customers held periodically at a specific place for direct trading or for the conclusion of trade on the basis of the samples exposed. Sinonym for the fair is also a fair. I don't know if you realize this is a level of humiliation and a level of disrespect when you call the event where people and the culture of the citizens of this country should be represented, a national minority fair? This case may well show the government's relationship and how the government sees national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. I welcome the decision of the Bosniak National Council to boycott this event because of this, and I call on other national councils to do the same until the circumstances in which the International Day of Human Rights is maintained and until the revision of the action plan is carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27768	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27769	Thank you, Chairman. I ask the first question to the interior ministry and Prime Minister Ani Brnabic about the purchase of 710 police cars. Namely, a few months ago, 710 cars were purchased for police purposes. I don't mind. The police need to get the equipment and invest in it. However, it is disputed here that state representatives, specifically the interior ministry, as well as the prime minister herself, have no answer to the question of who won the tender for the delivery of 710 "Scode" cars to the government of the Republic of Serbia. It was declared a secret for security reasons. They've applied to Article 128. The law on public procurement, where absolutely it can't be settled. The article makes it clear what is involved in the purchases that can be undermined by the fact that they should be secret for security reasons, but cars certainly do not belong in that category. On the other hand, the interior ministry also had a few years back to purchase cars from smaller contingents where public procurement was conducted and publicly published on the site. This raises further suspicion that there are certain corrupt actions here, because unless the government and the ministry want to respond to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they do not want to respond to the press and communicate with them, it is doubtful that the procurement was not carried out in accordance with the law and that someone had certain corrupt interests in obtaining 710 cars without tendering or in any other way. The question arises, therefore, whether there is a link between today's Mayor Cačka and the longtime director of Auto Cačka, who is the exclusive supplier of Skoda, i.e. representative of car damage for the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I urge you to answer the question why this tender is hiding and who has won this tender if you really want to rule in a transparent manner, to fight corruption. On the wings of that story you came to power, not to hide it from both the citizens and the media that today we do not know who spent the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, there is also a very legitimate question if the state is giving subsidies to "Fiat", if we have ownership stakes in the Fiat cars of Serbia, so was it not normal, and if it is already necessary in some way to help the economy of the Republic of Serbia, to take our domestic vehicles, rather than taking foreign vehicles so that probably someone can provide themselves some benefit? The prime minister said that they, answering the issue of "Fiyat", do not practice protectionism, which is not controversial, but, on the other hand, did not answer why they do not practice transparency and publish a tender for who and under what conditions they got to deliver 710 "Scode" cars to Serbia's MUP. Second question I ask, I ask the president of Mrs. Maji Gojkovic's Assembly. The question is why and how long will it, by misusing its function, violate the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, demean this parliament with the appointment of a session in violation of the Rules of Procedure? Infringement by the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 157, related to the unification of the debate. This is the material that we needed in a few days as MPs to read. This is just a draft budget law and an opinion on amendments. Look at how much that is, 1500 tiny pages we got in a few days to read. This says that you continue to practice uniting 30 laws along with the budget, to hide the truth. You went further by submitting your own amendments to the draft laws before the budget so as not to debate the budget at all because you are hiding the truth. It is a violation of national interests, because citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the right to hear from their representatives of the opinion on any legal act concerning their lives and regarding the Republic of Serbia. You do not allow this harsh abuse of functions in this House. So it's high time to put order into this parliament, but you obviously don't want it, you want citizens to hear nothing about the legal proposals that are in the process these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27770	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27771	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer the first question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Stefanovic and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Djordjevic – what will be done for the knowledge and very reasonable doubt that 1,600,000 social aid dinars are paid out of the municipal budget for exactly 40 people, according to exactly 40,000 dinars, according to some playful scheme of the third party from the pub and that all those funds will end up for the financing of the political party, I mean, specifically, the Serbian Progressive Party? All of this would have been very incredible if it hadn't happened before, if it hadn't already been proven and there wasn't any judicial epilogue. Question number two, for Minister Stefanovic, too. We have an increasing number of cave dwellers, suffering brutal torture, pressure. Also, we have candidates from various lists, running for office on December 24th, to give up their candidacys. The citizens suffer pressure, brutal pressure, to vote publicly, because local SNS leaders, certain black jeeps beatings, no longer trust that they will vote for them, and that they do not, because they lose confidence in their so-called. Capillaries. I ask the question to Minister Stefanovic - what will he do to protect all candidates who run for elections in Mionica and other municipalities, what will he do to protect all citizens in these municipalities and to allow a minimum democratic atmosphere for holding elections? I'm asking this because it's already happened that in Vrbas, the kidnapped activists of the Democratic Party, harassed, in Mionica, were beaten brutally by a candidate for the president of the municipality, that all evidence was delivered without any judicial epilogue. What will Mr. Stefanovic do to ensure that such a thing does not happen again, and once again, to ensure the minimum democratic conditions for holding these elections? And if he does nothing, the DS will fight to the end to protect the interests of both Mionica and Negotina and Kostolac and the Caves. I ask Mr. Knezevic, Minister of Economy, as well as Mr. Ljajic, Minister of Tourism and Trade. In fact, Mr Knezevic informed the Assembly and MPs of his report that the special hospitals "Sokobanja" in Sokobanja, the special hospital "Mercur" in Vrnjačka Banja, the special hospital "Glatibor" in Catitina, that the court disputes are over and that these special hospitals are ready for sale. My question to the Minister of Industry and to Mr Ljajic is this – when, in what deadlines, what plan and how will this plan exist and how will these special hospitals be privatised? I'm asking this because citizens in these municipalities are dominantly living on tourism. They fear simple moves like this, demand a very clear plan of what will be done, in what way, according to which plan, because they can dominantly influence their lives, the jobs they live on, because these institutions have, not to say, a crucial impact on health tourism in these municipalities. So it would be disastrous, it would be devastating if these health institutions were privatised in a sibling, without any plan, without any criteria and deadlines, and God forbid they were privatised under some brotherly contracts and Sharia law, not by the law of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27772	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27773	During the government's presentation, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic delivered to citizens and MPs their biography. Then I asked her a few questions, she didn't answer any questions during the debate, so now I'm going to ask her the same questions. We hope that he will follow the rules and respond within 15 days. So, in this government, she presented all the ministers and practically, when we look at their biographies, we see that they have neither the work experience nor the education they need, meaning, neither the knowledge nor the work experience for the positions they perform, and they wrote the budget, or the budgets of the ministries they run. Let's just say, the question is, what does Vulin qualify as Secretary of Defense? What exactly is qualified in his biography for this job? What qualified him as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in the previous government? Then, what does Zoran Djordjevic, who in the previous government served as defence minister, qualify to be Minister for Labour and Social Affairs? What does his biography say? Being a governor's driver, that's not a qualification. I hope that's not really the main thing he's chosen for. Then, we have personnel who have nothing but political experience, such as Ruzic and Antic from the SPS. So no day's work experience past politics they don't have. What qualify them for state administration and energy? Then what is qualified by Minister Stefanovic for Police and Home Affairs? There's no day's work experience in the area of security. Now he's also elected as the security coordinator of the Bureau that the president is forming. Why is he put in that position? He graduated from Megatrend. He was a doctor at Megatrend. What's qualified him for this position? Then what does Minister Mihajlovic have to do with traffic? She taught at First Economic School, worked at EPS, Elektroastok. She also worked as an emergency professor at Megatrend. What does this have to do with traffic? Then, Nenad Popovic in the government. What's that man doing in the government? He literally destroyed Minel. So, besides all Karic, Dinkic, Saric and others who are slowly obsessing over their cases, he is one of those who participated in robbery privatisations. What's he doing in the government? How can the prime minister even talk about fighting corruption when there are two other ministers arrested in the government -- Goran Knezevic and new Minister Goran Trivan? What does this have to do with areas that should lead? None of the ministers have qualifications. That's why we have the budgets we have, which are catastrophic, where the finance minister is trying somehow to maintain macroeconomic stability, and there is no reform in any area. Citizens can see that very well. One area in society, health care, education, any area where order, culture is introduced, what is qualified by these people, and did the Prime Minister of any of them choose to be a minister? We here ask questions every Tuesday and Thursday and all those to whom we ask questions are legally obliged to answer us. These are issues for citizens to see, which we have asked the President of the Assembly and the President of the Republic of Serbia, who had previously been Prime Minister, 25 times the President of the National Assembly, 34 times so far to the President of the Republic. We didn't get an answer once. In order for citizens to know, when we ask a question, professional services beat it, send it to the competent authority to answer them. We didn't get any answers for a year and a half. The question for the president of the National Assembly, again, why is it humiliating the dignity of the National Assembly and the vote, organising a vote on bells? What's he doing that for? Each time MPs vote on the bell. Question for the President of the Republic – why does he not respect the rules and answer the questions of the Members? The question for him is, too, does he, when he talks about amending the Constitution, when he talks about dialogue, actually talk about wanting to get the preamble out of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Is the coalition the SNS has concluded with Haradinaj in Kosovo in fact an insight into that? We demand answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27774	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27775	Dear Chairman, I refer the first question to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior – did their two ministries do anything about the fictitious subsidisation of 110 projects of largely non-existent production plants, which were paid from the Regional Fund for the co-financing of new plants in the AP Vojvodina, through which Bojan Pajtic and Dragoslav Petrovic damaged the province's budget for about 35m euros? Of the 110 subsidized enterprises, 60 quickly, after receiving subsidies, ended up in bankruptcy, but also in millions of losses without fulfilling contract provisions and not returning subsidies. Has Bojan Pajtic, then the Prime Minister of the province, and Dragoslav Petrovic, the then province's secretary, been found responsible for failing to file any criminal charges for fraud against firms that failed to return subsidies and did not hire new workers as specified in the contract? The second question, too, is that I refer to the minister of justice and the minister of the interior. During the last local elections in 2016, the Municipal Election Commission in Bac made a decision on 13 March on the rejection of the DS list, to be led by the chairman of the Regional Committee, DS Miroslav Vasin, to send a truck from 350 food packages to the non-existent Roma inclusion office in the Wajska Municipal Community in the municipality of Bac to provide the necessary signatures for the handover of new lists. What is most embarrassing is that there is no registered municipal office for Roma inclusion in any of the municipalities in Vojvodina, and especially not in the local communities, and there is no address of the non-existent office in Vajska, and at the alleged address of the office, which is located in 12 Pere Segedinca Street, lives Zoran Petrovic, who was a candidate of DS for committees in the Municipality of Bac and who was on their list in fifth place. In addition to the address addressed to 350 food packages, there is no office for the inclusion of Roma, and at that address is a candidate of DS from the municipal board, it is interesting to find the seal of goods, instead of stamps and the non-existent office of inclusion of Roma Vajska, which is allegedly referred to as the aid, the seal of the Association of the citizens of Romania Bac, which is not even from Vajska, but from Selenca. All this indicates is that it's not about any help, it's about classical crime and buying votes. The same persons were members and DS candidates in the local elections and were carrying packages of the Mercedes truck registered in Loznica, and were also committed several days later when, more specifically on 24 March, the same packages, which were packed in imagined yellow bags, were shared in neighboring Selenca. Since the story of the purchase of votes through the non-existent Roma inclusion office in Vajska came to the public, a few days later the Roma Wajska Association was registered in whose name, but not the address, a new amount of food packages are coming again, but this time in two trucks. The address for the delivery and distribution of the package was not the address of the seat of the Roma Vajska Association, but was once again the address on the 12th Pere Segedinca Street, where the candidate of DS for councilman Zoran Petrovic, who carried the goods by his own truck, probably to those whose votes were to be bought, so that they wouldn't accidentally forget who they got these packages from. The question is, did the ministry, one and the other, lead to anything according to these allegations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27776	Do any of the other authorised representatives, i.e. the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word in accordance with Article 287? The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27777	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsic, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly want me to exercise my right to ask the question of Minister Nelli Kuburovic and the Ministry of Justice. During the DS authorities, jobs were lost for an hour in both Belgrade and Serbia. I remind you, the debts left by the yellow company in the city of Belgrade amounted to 1.2 billion euros. This government has managed to cut them by 500 million. Each Belgrader is less in debt for 250 euros over the past three years. They left us a wasteland in Belgrade and in the city register, they left us huge debts, and when it comes to Belgrade municipalities, public utility companies, we were one step away from bankruptcy. It is the coalition headed by Jankovic, Sapic, Djilas and Jeremic that is the DS coalition in several columns. All these people were otherwise members of the DS or were representatives of the party's highest authorities when it was in power. I see that this coalition was created today and that the only program they have is to return to power. They're not new people. It's not about new people on Serbia's political scene. These are not new people, neither Sapic, nor Jeremic, nor Jankovic, nor Gilas. I remind you that Dragan Djilas and Sapic led and managed the city of Belgrade. One was the mayor, while Sapic was an assistant. They ruled Belgrade so successfully that they left us with a huge debt of 1.2 billion euros, increased the unemployment rate, workers in Belgrade were out of work during the night, workers were out of work and in Rakovica, and in Mladenov, and in Groca, and in Barajev. During that time, what did we have on the other hand that left us DS during Belgrade's rule with Dragan Dilas and Sapic? We had failed investments. I'll remind you of some of the failed investments. We had a model of Terrace in New Belgrade that cost 600,000 euros each citizen of Belgrade, instead of spending it more wisely on building some schools, kindergartens, hospitals, roads, everything we lack. Their failed investments and today you can see them on every corner in Belgrade. You've got underground containers, you've got different malversions, you've got machinations about the reconstruction of the Bulevar Revolution, you've got huge costs and huge debts that they've been generating at the time of the DS when they ran public enterprises in the city of Belgrade. I will mention only some of them -- Belgrade Road, Belgrade Water and sewerage -- had huge costs and huge debts that they left behind in the amannet. I remind you, on the other hand, while in debt as public undertakings, they did not build, and today we have a situation that Belgrade, the surroundings of Belgrade, invite you to come and see what the surrounding Belgrade looks like, there is no sewerage, no road, no water, nothing that the citizens of a great capital deserve in the 21st century. They were not really interested in the problems of Belgrade citizens. They were interested in something else. I ask Minister Nelu Kuburovic to answer my next questions. To this day, she has lost the answer to the wild construction of yellow Dr. Capic. We had so many allegations in the media in April 2013, where a daily newspaper reported to us that Dr. Sapic had received 18 acres of land from the city of Belgrade around his villa on Dedinj, which the gentleman has never denied before. As it is possible that Dr. Sapic, the right hand of Belgrade's then mayor Dragan Dilas, used his influence to get exactly 1,884 m2 of attractive land around the Autocommand from the city administration. It's about five plots carrying the number floor. Sava Venac municipality. According to market value, the lease for this land per square in the part of the city in which Sapic has a villa cost almost no more than 140m dinars or 1.16m euros. I ask you -- how much could the city of Belgrade have earned if this land had been offered at auction? Also, I ask the question, the media reported in 2013 that Dr. Sapic usurped the street of Laza Lazarevic to expand his villa's salary on Dedinj. The head of Rakovic municipality and former head of Belgrade's DS Aleksandar Sapic seems to really like the comfort, since he practically took up an entire Belgrade street in the Sava Venac municipality to expand his yard. Of course, it did not fit, wild construction is not stopped now and now without permission Dr. Sapic is building 627 squares of residential and accompanying space. Unfortunately, five minutes is not enough to list all the machinations, a whole list of Sapic's malversions and colorful lies. I won't mention that he illegally built a house and a pool, that the state owed 2.5 million dinars on behalf of the tax, that he paid a kindergarten rent at a triple the market price. He spent 600,000 dinars on fuel alone, his jeeps, and his cars. He plagiarized his doctorate, as stated by the University of the Union Commission; he privatised the municipality of Novi Belgrade, where you can't get any paper on the municipality today to have nothing to do with Dr. Sapic; he refused to bring down another uncle's facility. From Dragan Gilas, he received five parcels on a gift, while Dragan Gilas was the president of the municipality. Probably all of these...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27778	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27779	Here, I'm done. It's likely that all these machinations qualify him to be a candidate for this yellow company again. However, Belgrade's citizens do not have a brief mind and will not pass through the destruction of our capital. Therefore, I ask all competent institutions to examine these media allegations and report to us on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27780	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27781	Mr Arsic, from day to day you continue to humiliate parliament, continue to favour representatives of the ruling coalition in every way possible and it is clear that you have double standards. Article 286 speaks of the right of MPs to ask for explanations from the president of the National Assembly, ministers, etc. In Section 2, it may take, in a single address, up to five minutes. The lady or the lady from the ruling coalition spoke uninterruptedly for almost seven minutes, a few seconds missing until the full seven minutes. And that's really embarrassing. It can be allowed for someone 10, 15 seconds to speak longer, to finish thinking. But to speak for two minutes, to read another two minutes after the time is up what's on the paper, which he was given to read, it's embarrassing. If you had a little sense of a function that you unfortunately accepted, if you allowed someone a little more rights, you would allow the representatives of the opposition. And in your case it is the other way around, when the opposition is there, then you break it up with a rigid break, and when the representatives are in power, then everything can be done. And nothing to anyone. I do not expect, as before, that you, Mr Arsic, will accept reality and confirm what the whole of Serbia has seen happen. And I didn't say this because of you, but because of the citizens of Serbia, to brand your anti-democracy behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27782	My colleague Šarovic, before you stamped me, you should have come to the meeting at 10 o'clock, to attend the beginning of the session, not to walk into this parliament five minutes ago and to join the Rules of Procedure immediately. Radoslav Milojic throws it away. I'm asking my colleague Milojičić not to throw it at me. If you had arrived at 10 o'clock, you would have known that your president of the parliamentary group and your party president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, had asked the first or second parliamentary question. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. You have no right, now, while I answer to you. I can't break the Rules of Procedure. I'm just giving you an answer. So I can't break the Rules of Procedure while I'm giving an answer to your advertising of the Rules of Procedure's breach. You would know, colleague Sarovic, that in five minutes and 30 seconds, I turned off the microphone to your president of the parliamentary group... Nemanja Sarovic: Not true. )......................................................................................................... It's true, and after that he asked for more time, which I gave him. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. ) Therefore, if that was the case for a representative, or a boss, or whatever you want to call it, the Serbian Radical Party MP club, also applies to counterpart Stojkovic. And all these MPs saw it here. And don't be a Democratic Party lawyer anymore. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? You're not answering. Nemanja Sarovic: Let me answer. ) The word has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27783	I'm advocating Article 108 that in the session of the National Assembly the old chairman and you have nothing to give or not to give. You should respect the Rules of Procedure, which you have done so far, but I don't really know what the last few days have been like with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You allowed Vojislav Seselj to speak for a minute longer than expected, and representatives of the SNS two minutes. So, all of you in power have got three minutes total to talk more than you're allowed and we're proud of that from DS that we never got from you three minutes longer to talk. You came out of the same vest and you and the SRS. You are together making a ruling coalition, together you are in power, and I am perfectly clear, but I am not saying this because of you, Mr. Arsic, in the hope that you will change the conduct of the session and that way. I'm talking about Serbian citizens knowing that only DS is a real opponent of the SNS and the only one has the capacity to change you and replace you. I don't have the illusion that you're going to change the way you run the session. My people, Serbia is the country where Dragan Markovic Palma was elected European this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27784	Ambassador... (Radoslav Milojic: I don't know why you shut me out. Because you're not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure anymore. So Dragan Markovic Palma isn't in the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic: He should be the European, it's like I would advertise my hair.) ) (Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. ) Thank you very much. After we've finished under Article 287, as you know, the replicas have nothing to do with the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and your playing with the advertising of the same, according to Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by all authorised representatives of the Government with my associates. At the moment, Minister Vujovic is with us. We will continue with yesterday's debate on amendments at point 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act. Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27785	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the amendment concerns the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Article 23. In Article 23. The law on the budgetary system of the state of Serbia defines the fiscal powers of the Republic of Serbia to collect revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are incomes based on property tax, income tax, citizens tax, value added tax, and if you look at the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2018, these revenues are planned in uncomparably larger amounts, i.e. to compare larger amounts that are higher than the realisation and budget for 2017, what we planned. Thus, income and income of citizens rise by 1.3%, corporate income tax by 18.3%, value added tax by 8%, and mostly all income and income estimated by a conservative method of growth. This is proof that in Serbia it starts to work and works a different way. We practically didn't change those taxes in the last year. The result of their growth is the result of increased consumption. This consumption is the result of consumption that is personal, individual but also investment. If individual and investment consumption is growing, then it is talking about the macroeconomic stability that I propose to this amendment. The macro-economic stability in the final instance ends, i.e. it works at the level that citizens' incomes are growing, and a small part of these revenues that go into consumption are actually taxing the state. These are taxes concerning consumption taxes, and they say that Serbia has a rate that is respectable despite GDP growth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27786	Thank you. An MP named Miodrag Lint submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27787	I will talk about an amendment concerning improving the situation of refugees and exiled persons and Serbs in the region. I remind the public that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, a session of one of the committees for implementing the Vienna Sucession Agreement is held. It's a committee on the implementation of Annex B, division of diplomatic and consular property. In addition, I want to get to know the public and that is why I am talking today about the succession, that the Treaty on Succession was signed in 2001 in Vienna by the representatives of the successor states of the former Yugoslavia, that after ratification in the parliaments of the states of the successors of the former Yugoslavia came into force in June 2004. In the past 13 years, only four sessions of a permanent mixed committee consisting of representatives of the governments of Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Serbia and Macedonia have been held. For us, it is particularly important, primarily for hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs, for the remaining Serbs in Croatia, the Federation of BiH, Annex G of that agreement, which is called "private Property and Rights acquired", and it clearly states that all citizens must be returned and protected by the rights they had on 31.12.1990, and all contracts concluded during the war under pressure and threat must be declared void. It's also very important to Annex E regarding pensions. I remind you that we have about 50,000 Krajina pensioners who owe 81 pensions on average. The last, fourth meeting of the Permanent Mixed Committee, held in Sarajevo, was attended by a senior representative of the Serbian government, Prof. Rodoljub Etinski, and Croatian representative Andrea Metelko Zgombic. It was then agreed that the next meeting would take place within six months in Zagreb. Unfortunately, the Croatian representative and then obstructed the initiative of Professor Etinski to reach an agreement on the implementation of Annex G and Annex E on the return of housing rights, the return of kidnapped mobile, immovable property, damages for destroyed and kidnapped property, the issue of outstanding outstanding pensions, the issue of dinar and foreign savings. The Croatian representative has not yet called for the fifth session of the Permanent Mixed Committee, which once again confirms that Croatia is obstructing the implementation of an interstate agreement, i.e. the Agreement on Succession, although the Constitution of Croatia clearly states that all contracts confirmed in the Croatian Parliament have stronger legal power than domestic laws. I appeal to the Foreign Ministry to point out in talks with Brussels and Berlin that the government of the Republic of Croatia's policy of obstruction, which refuses to respect an interstate agreement concerning respect for one of the fundamental values of the EU, which is human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27788	Parliamentarians Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica submitted to the 2nd amendment together. The word has Bojan Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27789	Dear Ministers, Your Honor, our amendment refers to a proposal for the budget to be in the post of poverty reduction. What is the function of the budget at all levels during the rule of the former regime will tell us itself the arrangement of the province administration of Bojan Pajtic, which he concluded with the brokerage company Alexander from Subotica, with one of 107 companies that received a subsidy for the introduction of new technologies even though it was never explained how the new procurement technology was and how the company returned the subsidy on several occasions through so-called. donations. First, 7150 liters of antifreeze drowned in 19 agricultural, machine and technical schools in Vojvodina for 12650 euros, because those schools have a rolling stock, which the Pajtic administration concluded. The same 19 addresses again delivered 2,400 liters of antifreeze for 4250 euros, another 10,000 liters of polishing and tyre protection for 32800 euros and another 5,000 liters of glass washing fluid for 3760 euros. Whose tires were polished with 10,000 liters does not say in the conclusion of the District Executive Council. It is not explained why schools spend more antifreeze than city traffic companies in Vojvodina. Then came theatres, museums and galleries in Novi Sad and Vojvodina, where antifreeze seems to be spent even more than in motorized schools and urban traffic companies. With only five months apart for eight institutions, 2640 liters of antifreeze were delivered for 4700 euros and 3000 liters of glass washing fluid for 2250 euros, and another 2500 liters of antifreeze for 4500 euros and another 6250 liters of glass washing fluid worth 4700 euros. The latest cultural delivery included 10 theatres, museums and galleries in Vojvodina that reportedly gave another 6650 liters of antifreeze for 12000 euros and another 12500 liters of glass washing fluid worth 9500 euros. The Executive Council concluded that at the same time, the brokerage house returned subsidies through deliveries of another 6250 liters of glass washing fluid for 4700 euros, for 124 secondary schools in Vojvodina. The bill shows that Dragoslav Petrovic and Bojan Pajtic traded 91,000 euros for 21500 tonnes of antifreeze, 10 tonnes of rubber protection and polishing and 33 tonnes of glass-washing fluid. Ten prestigious cultural institutions in Vojvodina in just five months were supplied with 11.8 tonnes of antifreeze and 21.7 tonnes of glass-washing fluid, which shows only how the former regime treated Serbian citizens' budgets and resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27790	Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27791	Thank you, Your Honor. The objective of the amendment is to further support and strengthen the fight against corruption, when it comes to realisation, and ultimately budget planning. It would be best if I showed on one case from Subotica, which could mean corruption and criminal spending of people's money. In 2010, in co-operation with the Regional Secretariat, the town of Subotica planned to smuggle 400 hectares of land. The project cost about 40 million dinars. As it is already known to the public, it ended with only 38 hectares of planned land, but that's why all 40 million dinars were spent for that purpose. Of course, the money was spent without any evidence that the seedlings were even taken over. This is one example of what the relationship of the former authorities was to the budget and what this criminal and corruption relationship towards state money is. The way it looks today, it best illustrates what's going on in Subotica right now. I will only say that as early as November 17th, in preparation for work on the revitalisation of Lake Palic and its reconstruction, on November 17th, the Mayor of Subotica, Mr Bogdan Laban, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure, signed a grant contract of 6.5m euros for the revitalisation of Lake Palic. That's about 780 million dinars, if I've calculated correctly, I really have to congratulate on that big job. Thus, Palic will create conditions to become a significant destination, to get the important place he has always had on the tourist map of the Republic of Serbia and Subotica, in addition to the 780 million provided by the mayor along with the Ministry of Infrastructure and with 800 million for Ipilon Krak, 67 million for the reconstruction of the stadium in Subotica, will become a major site in 2018 and benefit greatly from the budget of the Republic of Serbia on donations it provides. It will thus show how it relates to the city and state budget in what way anti-corruption is, when it comes to spending people's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27792	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27793	Thank you, Chairman. In order to continue to improve infrastructure development, as my amendment says, a significant project to be implemented is the roundabout project around Belgrade. The highway bypass around Belgrade is part of Corridor 10, around the Serbian capital, and is the most significant infrastructure project in the country. The main route of Corridor 10 passes through the central city zone, creating significant traffic and congestion problems within the road network. The bypass intersects with all highways leading to Belgrade, E-75 and E-70 roads, as well as a significant part of regional transit routes. At the end of the construction of this bypass, transit traffic will be removed from the city, noise and pollution will be reduced in the city and the passage through Belgrade speeded up. So, the tour is aimed at detouring transit traffic from Belgrade's city centre and interconnecting with existing highways and those in construction, as well as international roads leading to Belgrade and Belgrade in other directions. The project also includes sector B, where one part is completed, and the project pulls the remaining 19.3km from the bridge in Ostružnica to the 207m-euro Bubanj stream intersection. Also in the project is sector C, and there is a need to build, the rest of section C, 31km of highway from Bubanj stream to Pancheva, including a passenger-rail bridge across the Danube River. The total value of this investment is 450m euros. So this is a great project and ending this tour around Belgrade will significantly relieve traffic in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27794	The 2nd Amendment was filed by Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27795	Thank you, President. Dear Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, where 4b is added after Article 4a, after EU financial assistance, adds a member b which reads – planning, preparation, adoption, implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, to the greatest extent possible to improve balanced regional development in the Republic of Serbia. I propose this for the first time, which through the EU's access funds, allows and provides opportunities for the construction of a sewerage network for the construction of wastewater processing plants, for the resolution of the waste management system and for all that Chapter 27 will give us in order to improve the quality of the environment. So waste management and water management. What is good in the budget, which is planned for 2018, is that the budget of the Ministry of Environmental Protection has identified 100 million dinars to help local self-government prepare projects and prepare project documentation from the field of environmental protection. In 2014, Triestenik was one of the municipalities threatened by floods, and then one good part of the problem arose because one settlement, which was near the drinking water spring, had no sewage network and the whole water supply was compromised. Triestenik was then named a priority and was granted 30 million dinars to tackle this problem through the Public Investment Management Office. So personally, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic identified Triestenik as a priority and ordered the implementation of this recovery. In order to further invest in the construction of a sewerage network in all parts of the Republic of Serbia, to edit the system, to build wastewater processing plants, I propose that this point be found in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27796	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27797	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and, above all, to strengthen the health system of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, this is about donations. When it comes to donations and when it comes to the Ministry of Health and the general budget of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear to all of us that the policy responsible in the past few years has really managed to prevent the collapse, primarily of the health system, but also of all other branches in our country, which has been devastated by 2012. Otherwise, I would also refer to the donations that came to the Kruševac Health Center in the previous period, especially the General Hospital, but not just from the Ministry of Health. The investments from the Ministry of Health were really big, the P-8 building was reconstructed, the entire carpentry was reconstructed on that building, the roof structure and much more in the previous period. So, equipped as the C.I.A., the pathology department, these really are numbers of more than, like, millions of dinars. But I must also point out that the representatives of the local government at the head of the SNS have managed to bring in many other donors and their goodwill to reconstruct other departments, so it's a reconstructed carpentry on the internal block. It is primarily a donation, I must stress this opportunity, Mr Alexander Vukic and Bratislav Gasic. So, the entire interior office, then a lot of equipment was provided both in the internal department and in the anesthesia service and in the other departments where it was necessary. Citizens of Kruševac, above all, and Serbian citizens are proud of the government and we will continue even faster, even stronger and even better, because we have citizens' support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27798	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27799	Thank you. This amendment underlines the importance of state development, and I agree once again with the assessment made by Minister Vujovic, that the city of Belgrade is an excellent example of development and the excellent potential for further development of the state. This, when it comes to the city of Belgrade, really refers to important projects that are already being implemented, are rapidly realised, such as the Belgrade water project, but also to projects that have been announced and whose realization is expected in the immediate ahead of us. For example, a project of apartments with a popular price, apartments with an average price of about 500 euros squares, which can be realised specifically in the city of Belgrade at, I think, three locations currently in circulation. These are locations in Borca, locations near Dr Ivan Ribar village in New Belgrade and the location of the Makiška polje. The Macedonian field, as I believe, is an outstanding example of the potential for future development that should be officially implemented after the recently adopted plans as a completely new, modern, strong business industrial complex, which will open a complete Belgrade and represent an important resource for the entire capital. When we talk about a project that size, it is clear that it is a project that is important for the whole country. The first planned route of the metro, the Belgrade subway, should go right there, from the Maquis field, and connect it to the city centre, and somewhere in the Belgrade area on the water, makes an important hub for connecting the so-called. Interconnection and other important routes of one metro. That modernization, which is more often spoken of by fellow Markovic, is also important and also present, right in our capital, is evidence, for example, of the initiative to work and build on your own. So the possibility that residents of our capital, using a modern app, are themselves saying what they want to do in the capital. In this way, we achieve all the preconditions, not only for citizens to wonder, but for Belgrade to be modern and modern, and not for DOS Palanka, as some have only been able to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27800	By amendment, Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27801	Once again, for Minister Vujovic, will he accept this amendment and support such proposals? We had opportunities to hear about development projects in Belgrade and above all about how much debt was found in Belgrade in 2014. And today we had a chance to hear that it was 1.2 billion euros. Minister Vujovic made it clear to the Finance Committee... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27802	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but you don't have time. You don't have time, it's my fault, you've wasted your time. (Goran Ciric: MP's time? ) Just to see if you happen to have time from the group. No, you've wasted your time on both grounds. I didn't have a session in that part. The MP group, both of you, you've both spent your time on both grounds. (Goran Ciric: I expect the minister to answer the question. ) Thank you very much. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Markovic. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27803	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the government, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must reiterate my regret that the MP group that deals with the films is not with us today, but they may be watching the broadcast. This amendment, the chairman, so the amendment to Article 2 is related to the amendment to Article 1. The draft law on the budgetary system, i.e. they have the same goal, which is to further encourage and support the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution. So, as it is said, it is proposed to add a new stance -- planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, so that it is realised to the greatest extent possible to be in the function of modernising the Republic of Serbia. How important Serbia's modernisation is, it also says, that just a few days ago, it seems to me on Friday, a meeting was held in Belgrade between the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and three prime ministers from the countries of the region, namely the prime ministers of Greece, Bulgaria and Romania, on which one of the main topics was the modernisation of infrastructure facilities, including the modernisation of road and railway infrastructure. So modern infrastructure, modern infrastructure facilities are a prerequisite, that's something that represents the future, but that's also something that directly attracts new investments in the most direct way. New investments create new jobs, and all of this leads to a better economic picture, which is how we fix the economic climate. So, good investment policy has so far yielded good results on economic growth. In order not to owe, these are the basic reasons for which I have submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27804	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27805	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the nine of us, members of the Focus Group, have submitted a total of 69 amendments, and this is one of those amendments, because we, MPs of the ruling coalition, have the right to submit amendments as well as MPs of the opposition. The 2030 Agenda, with 17 sustainable development objectives and 169 target values, covers a wider range than the million objectives and includes all three key dimensions of sustainable development, from economic growth, social inclusion and environmental protection. The 2030 agenda is already being implemented in Belgrade. I can proudly say that, after three years, for the first time, this city government is responsible for implementing social policy, because it pays off its obligations in time and is not in debt, and they have inherited huge debts from previous authorities. One of the goals of sustainable development that we are implementing in Serbia is the fight against poverty. Sustainable development goals are a dignified work for all, economic growth and unemployment. For the first time in 10 years, there are fewer than 100,000 unemployed people in Belgrade, namely 88,000 people. In the voting day, I will vote for my amendments, because we are not intended to submit these amendments for two minutes in a big shot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27806	Thank you. Col. Jolovic, you want the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27807	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to give full support to the amendment that my colleagues have submitted on the objectives of sustainable development and the 2030 agenda. I think it's too high to explain what the even development of the whole country means to the citizens of New Market. In the previous period, the government of the Republic of Serbia has done a lot for Novi Pazar and I will only allocate some of the investments to this occasion. It was done to pave the way from Peter's church to the village of Mitrov Reka worth 65 million dinars. Twom euros have been invested in the watering of the Raska River. The government participated in the construction of an athletic stadium in Novi Pazar with over 65m dinars, and soon an emergency building will be equipped, in which the Serbian government will invest only to equip about 200,000 euros. Two new elementary schools have been built, and the construction of kindergartens in the settlement of Sixovo in Novi Pazar is under way. Two bridges with access cars were made and a total reconstruction of the sports hall was done and much more. From all of this, I believe that the even development of the entire country is the key to sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27808	Thank you, colleague Jolovic. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27809	I will join the suggestions of colleagues from the New Market. Indeed, much has been done, not only for Novi Pazar, but for other cities of this region. Of course, Novi Pazar has become and is becoming a growing regional centre, with the help of a serious government that is there and a quality co-operation with the government of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, every story about regional development is something to support, and in that sense I think this proposal is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27810	Thank you, Comrade Bacevac. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27811	Thank you. And I would support this amendment regarding even regional development. I think Mr. Nikola of Novi Pazar said how many things were done there, and I can say from the deluge where I come from, from the Municipality of Svrlig, on the territory of Svrlig from the City of Nis, from those areas where it's really done a lot. For example, a month and a half or two ago was done and a reconstruction of the primary school, where the value of the works was over 60 million. There will also be a sports hall in Srlig that started in the 1990s, and now it will be over. High school, complete reconstruction and energy efficiency will also be completed. We'll be working on a water reconstruction. They'll be working on roads, building roads. For example, in Srlig, the road to the Old Mountain was completed, a place that was really given by a god for tourism, where a large number of people are now coming across Svrlig to the Old Mountain. In a few days there will be an opening of the winter season of the Old Mountain. So, once again I support this amendment, I think it's good and that's how it should continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27812	Thank you. I would also like to inform you that your parliamentary group has no more time left. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojic, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojić, Nikola Savić, Filip Stojanović and Marina Ristić, together Marinika Tepić, Aleksandra Čabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivković and the National MP Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27813	Let me remind you that. 2nd and 3rd. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System treats the financing of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia and the financing of the powers of the AP Vojvodina. What is the view of the change proposed by the Government to separate one sentence into two sentences, or one point at two points? To keep donations and transfers at one point and to make a special point an EU aid. It's a good thing you started this, because you've opened up the whole question of what the concept of the Budgetary System Act is. I need to draw your attention that you have all the donations, and you have put what comes from the EU in public income. If public revenues are, then they should be allocated to direct or indirect beneficiaries of budgets, some others could not come. Here again we return to the central question – what are indirect, and what are direct users of budgets? Imagine what we have indirect users of budget funds. These are judicial authorities, budget funds, local communities and institutions established by the Republic. However, as you can see, there are no agencies. There are no agencies anywhere. Can you imagine, for example, that the Deposit Insurance Agency doesn't exist in the budget? Can you accept that someone who makes public revenues, even purposely makes it, is not in the budget, is out of the budget? We need one comprehensive reform of public finances. Whether it goes through one or two laws doesn't really matter. Whether the special law will regulate public revenues and public expenditures, and by other law the budget and the budget system, it does not matter at this time. It is important that there is a series of provisions in the law, which are bad, which do not show the state of public income and income. I use the word public income, because what you get from the EU is public income. Apropo something you said yesterday, I don't think you should repeat it again, so you don't do any more damage to the Republic of Serbia and to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday you opened a wrong discussion about a decision by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. By that decision which you have called upon, or to be more precise, the solution, you have read one part that is wrong, where pensions are said to be property rights. Pensions aren't property rights. And those in the Constitutional Court when they said it was property law, they thus established the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights as the fourth level of protection. Pensions are social rights. Most of the pension funds are financed from the contribution, and public revenues are contributed. The Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund is not a private savings bank. That is why the Republic assumes the obligation to finance from the budget a missing portion of the funds to pay off those appraisals belonging to an individual under the law. Pensions are social rights, pensions are acquired, and someone from the Constitutional Court cheated on you, so he said it was property law. If it's property law, then it's Article 3. Protocol 1 to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, and someone has fooled you so much. If the pension was a property right, it would also include the right to use, manage and dispose, and the right to retire and to pay the pension does not have the right to use, manage and dispose, because it is not an property right. I'm just amazed. I'm not surprised at the debates of the MPs, they don't have to be MPs and they know it, they need to express their political position, but in the government they have to be people who understand each other in these areas. Keep an eye on what you're doing, because you're doing even more damage. Property law, under the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, can be temporarily limited, some restrictions can be introduced which are essential to the law itself and which, by nature of things, are limited and are not contrary to the currents of democratic society. Take care of what you've done. I do not want a complete argument to be used because enemies can use against Serbia, not against the authorities, but against Serbia. Many critical estimates in an earlier period that were said, both the European Commission and the Venice Commission and others, with a delay of several years, have entered and cited quotes and attacked Serbia. I won't allow myself that luxury. I can be against the authorities, but I can't be against Serbia. But take care of what you do. Take care of what you do because you do much more damage than you can imagine.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27814	On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and MP Marijan Risticevic, submitted. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27815	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, this amendment, I wanted, on the one hand, to prepare this member of the law, if there is any need for this, as the Government has acted, and on the other hand, to support the government's proposal to form EU financial resources in a series of indirect public revenues. When it comes to EU funds, the former regime has received EU funding, but most of these funds have leaked into the pockets of some of their ministers and other officials. It is enough to mention that their minister and president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I quote: "Paid the billboards "Let's Clean Serbia" more than half a million", the 2011 State Audit Institute report and published "Politics" on 23 September 2012. The same minister, I quote, "for advertising in a daily newspaper paid half a million euros," the 2011 state auditor's report and published "Politika" on September 23rd 2012. "This same former minister, the former regime, was the president of the National Assembly, paid for the development of the Clean Serbia site, believe it or not, 25,000 euros," the state auditor's report. Finally, the same former regime minister was also the president of the National Assembly, and he also used EU funds, I quote: "from the Environment Fund he used funds for the party's presidential campaign of the former regime," Mladjan Dinkic said in this high house on 21 September 2013. Dear citizens, it is no wonder their ministers Sasa Dragin, Oliver Dulic, Jasna Matic, Predrag Bubalo and Slobodan Milosavljevic found themselves on the other side of the lock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27816	The word is made by MP Marijan Rističević, the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27817	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, by their amendment, we support, in fact, the government's position. This is about EU funds. The country we found was a state without state. The state is a complex and long-made product and not to be made in haste. EU funds are particularly important for agriculture. As someone who advocates agricultural production, processing and energy from agriculture, as someone who advocates that what farmers produce in the fields, workers processing in factories, bread and work for both farmers and workers, I must say that we expect significant EU funds from the IPARD into the agricultural budget. They object to us that the funds are small. I wish they were bigger, but the power of the economy that was left to us was so hard to squeeze dry dreno. In this regard, in 2006, the former regime's parties issued 136m euros for incentives in agriculture, 2010 and 2011, which was their maximum of 186m to 188m euros. In 2016, we allocated 309m euros, this year 268m euros, and that is not yet finished, for the following year we planned 281m euros and we expect to grow from IPARD funds. I believe that the issue of agriculture is also a matter of demographics, that we must use these resources to create Serbia's workers and peasants, Serbia's boys and girls, Serbia that will be proud of both our ancestors and our descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27818	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP, Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27819	Dear MPs, I would like to commend the planning of the 2018 revenue, to praise the fact that the profits of public enterprises did not enter, the profits of the National Bank of Serbia did not enter, so everything that is likely to be and not must be, because, once I said it, the income planned at a minimum value and in any case in realisation in 2018 will be higher, as the expenditure is planned at a maximum, so that the difference between income and expenditure will be positive and 2018 will end with a surplus, which will allow both wages and pensions to be increased again, and that the standard of citizens in 2018 will be much better at a much higher level than in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27820	Thank you, Mr. Yokic. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27821	Unlike the previous amendments that have absolutely nothing to do with a member of the laws proposed, which is also the Government in response to why amendments cannot be accepted and written, our amendment has to do with Article 3. Proposal to amend the Law on the Budgetary System which speaks of the financing of the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province, so much so that, possibly, citizens, if they follow the explanations of colleagues from the SNS and their amendments that have absolutely nothing to do with this article. We have placed and stressed the need to provide a level guaranteed by Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the level of the AP Vojvodina budget. Every time the budget is adopted, there is a debate on how and whether this provision of the Constitution is respected. Different methodologies are applied, as different methodologies apply to the story of Belgrade's long city. When MPs from the ruling majority speak of the debt of Belgrade of one billion and two hundred million euros... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27822	Please, colleague Giurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27823	... Then we can't hear it confirm the height of that debt either from the fiscal council or from the finance minister. I don't know what hurts you, what word? The ruling regime or the thieving? If it can be a thieving former regime, then why can't it be the ruling regime, what's the difference, the respected chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27824	Comrade Djurishic, please respect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27825	When you can talk about the former thieving regime, we'll stop talking about the ruling thieving regime. Well, we'll see what level of debt it was in 2013 and 2014, whether it was a billion and 200, as you're unfeelingly repeating and lying, or whether it was 400 million, as the finance minister and the Fiscal Council say. As if we hear, and unfortunately we won't be able to hear in the budget debate, whether or not and what the purpose of the gondola is to make in Belgrade, a gondola that Serbian citizens, all Serbian citizens should give 10m euros for a project that has absolutely nothing to do with the brain. That's what you want to hide, so we're listening to pointless debates here so we don't get to discuss details of the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27826	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27827	I thank the chairman. An injured member of the 107th National Assembly, a previous speaker here calls the ruling majority thieves. I'm not a thief, my colleagues aren't thieves, shame on you, you who propose such amendments. You're suggesting Santa enters to secure Santa's passage through the chimney. You and your colleague who sold it, then and the Triestenik party, sold the party only for the sake of personal interest. And you call us thieves, shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27828	My colleague Barisic, I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure for one simple reason, because I have repeatedly suggested, during the presentation, my colleague Đurisic and I am only asking if you would like the National Assembly to make a statement in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. No, I don't. () counterpart Tomic, you will receive a replica, but the injuries of the Rules of Procedure have an advantage, in contrast. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27829	Mr. Milicevic, I am advertising Article 108. I agree with everything and everything that previous speaker Marko Djurisic said, and please, you should have warned Mr. Arsic who came here to the bench and throws a colleague of Vidinović and me. But there's no problem we're not afraid of Mr. Arsic or the SNS, their arrogant behavior. I must now commend you, Mr. Milicevic, but you should not have warned Mr. Djurisic, he spoke the same rhetoric as SNS has already spoken of both the DS and the entire opposition. If they are allowed to tell what is not true about us, then Mr. Djurisic is allowed to tell what is true about them. So they're telling the truth about us, Mr. Djurisic was telling the truth about them. So if someone is allowed to say – a thief, a criminal or whatever is already said on their side, then it is allowed on this side. So I'm just asking you for the same parity, not someone who can say something, someone who can't, no matter what they're telling the truth about us, and Mr. Djurisic was telling the truth about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27830	Mr Milojic, it is up to all of us to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and MPs of the position and MPs of the opposition. I hope that's where we agree. What is true, and what is not, is hardly going to reach consensus here in the National Assembly, but that is always the most measured court of citizens. It's up to me to ask you if you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27831	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising Article 27 because you're obliged to take care of the Rules of Procedure, so here's the proof that you should take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure adopted by the Assembly. So, please do not have double arches during the discussion and that the same rules apply to both parties of government and parties of opposition. That's what I'm called talking about. It's just that they want to distract me from the truth with lies and delusions. A little while of advertising from the Rules of Procedure by Dr. Kruševac, who speaks of honesty here, who received two salaries simultaneously working in Kruševec as a psychiatrist and by being here in the Assembly, at the same time... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27832	Please, colleague, speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27833	Here, I'm done. He's talking about how they actually want to cause tension here and give us a lecture on honesty, on morality, abuse of the Institute of Abuse of Rules of Procedure. So, if the Rules of Procedure has been broken, it should be talked about a member in which the Rules of Procedure has been broken, to state it, rather than pointing his finger at other MPs here and thus creating tension. I am absolutely willing to participate in such work, but I think, the chairman, that this is not the solution and that in this way neither normal dialogue nor normal discussion will be established, which obviously does not correspond to this side that needs to be faced with the truth and that citizens here in parliament are told the truth about what the state of the budget is, what obligations will citizens have in the coming year, but they want to lie, spit and turn the subject into hiding the truth in this home. (Dragana Barisic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27834	Please, just a moment, I heard you, I have to explain to my colleague, Alexic, I am obliged as chairman. I've seen you, colleague Barisic, everything's fine. Comrade Alexic, you have pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Many times I've said, there are no double arches. As you and my colleague, Milojic, I have allowed you to explain to the end the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, I have only asked you not to speak directly to the MP, but to say what I have done as chairman of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I made a mistake in holding the session, and on whether, of course, it's your subjective opinion, your legitimate right to bring it out through the specified injury of the Messenger, and you have called on article 27. Whether a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done, if I repeat, you wish the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote, it will decide. Yes, you do. Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27835	Thank you. I'm surprised that a colleague who's been so many years president of the Triestenik municipality hasn't been educated... I'm sorry, Member of 107th Dignity. Article 103, 104, 105, whatever, he's wrong all the time. Now, please give me back the time. A fellow who has no insight into the law at all, and how it applies, that he mentioned that I was receiving two salaries, that it was illegally received, I don't know how he as an ex-president doesn't know, that someone who's in some position has the right to do another function, and that the pay is received in one place. So the colleague who told the lie...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27836	Just talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27837	Of course, to you. A fellow who has told a lie, I think he should bear the consequences and receive at the very least a warning, because as a national MP, I received a salary in the hospital, and here only a co-worker and a colleague of the same, a previous speaker, is trying to make these false the public of the Rasin district on Twitter, and only on Twitter can he win, because Milutovac received two votes and so much of it in his hometown.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27838	My colleague, continue to speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27839	Next, the same fellow who spits...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27840	Just talk to me, all right?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27841	The same speaker who spits on this country takes a tractor from the state, from the Ministry of Agriculture, and in the same agriculture ministry in previous years is offered to be a minister with various UN representatives, I don't know who, but can't get voter support, because in native Milutovac, let me remind you, two votes. So much for him. Otherwise, he's a little nervous, so he sees drones, as soon as he's mentioned to him by some successful citizen of the Rasin County, so he's in a far-off problem, so I'm not surprised to mention the doctors from Kruševec.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27842	Thank you. My colleague Barisic, as I understand it, you think I hurt Article 103 because I didn't know the information you just provided. I have not, believe me, been able in any way to find out, and therefore I do not think I have hurt the Rules of Procedure and in particular Article 103, and it is up to me as chairman to ask you whether you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27843	Mr. Milicevic, I think you violated article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27844	He was already a member of 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27845	Article 27?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27846	Yes, a colleague named Alexic pointed out that he was a member of 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27847	So both Articles 106 and 104. Mr. Milicevic, Dr. Barisic has the need to justify himself and it is legitimate, but it is not legitimate to do so by reporting to the Rules of Procedure. She didn't say a single word about a member who reported being violated. She's replicated her colleague Alexic, which she has no right to. I only ask you to subtract from the time of the parliamentary group to which it belongs and thus contribute to speed up this pointless debate and to come up with a debate on the budget, from which the ruling majority and how it escapes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27848	Comrade Nikolic, you and I agree on one thing, and that is most important that we return to the debate on the current agenda, because we are discussing very important and important legal proposals. My colleague Barisic, I said earlier, wanted to be on the basis of the subjective attitude of a colleague who spoke before her and what he said, explaining the breach of the Rules of Procedure, speaking to me, and I had no information that I could answer him, she wanted to help me get that information. Believe me, it's hard to get all the information. It is difficult to predict what any of the Messengers of the people will say. Again, it is up to me to allow MPs of the opposition and MPs of the position to speak, or that they may receive a word when they point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Imagine, if I didn't allow it, you'd say I was a dictator and that I wanted to deny the right and the possibility of the opposition saying what was never my intention, at least you know that, Mr. Nikolic. Would you like the People's Assembly to make a statement in the day of the vote on the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27849	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Article 106(2) so that no one can throw it away, because a colleague from Palanca, as he was called, flees the O.R. He threw it to me as I passed through to get the Rules of Procedure and you heard it and you were obliged to warn him. Now, the words here are very heavy -- the thief's majority, the thieving government, the former thieving regime. Mr. Chairman, if someone is leading the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and makes six million euros of NLP, and let me explain to you -- unpaid claims and pays it to the savings stakes of citizens who were depositors of that bank, in order to return those savings roles of Serbian citizens to those citizens later, you can imagine with 600m euros that we had to pay to the "Vojvodine Development Bank", led by a group of thieves with Boris Tadic and DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27850	Mr. Arsic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27851	... She made us pass the Pension Reduction Act, so now let's see who stole the pensions of Serbian citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27852	Mr. Arsic, here's Mr. Djurisic, that's exactly what I'm doing, and I'm going to ask Mr. Arsic, as I did to you, that, however, through the way you explain the violations of the Rules of Procedure, you have a rhetorical respect for the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I imagined, Mr. Arsic, everything you spoke of, the data you provided, but I just didn't hear one thing, believe me. I haven't heard the dialogue that you had and if you had a colleague you mentioned and I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marija Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27853	I thank the chairman. You've injured Rules of Procedure, Rule 108, because you're taking care of the order in this session. I understand that it is in your interest to have this debate on something that is irrelevant, which is beyond the budget, because you yourself have confirmed that we have some meaningless amendments and an even more pointless explanation. I ask you not to allow the abuse of the Rules of Procedure for the purpose of replication, which is here all the time, to force MPs, if they do not respect themselves, to respect the citizens of Serbia and to respect this high home and to return to the debate on key things for the lives of Serbian citizens, to truly improve life in Serbia, and not to give a variety of reasons for me as a fellow MP who wants to work in the interests of citizens, to put in the same basket with MPs who act like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27854	I thank my colleague Janjušević. On the contrary, I agree with you, as with Mr. Nikolic. My goal as chairman is to talk about what the agenda points are, and I think that we have very important and important proposals that we have debated in particular. But again, I want to tell you the same thing, it's impossible and I don't want to do it. I do not want to prevent MPs and positions and opposition from pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if they consider that I have done so as the chairman. So, there were no double standards here, not only the opposition MPs or MPs, but also the opposition colleagues, individual opposition colleagues and individual colleagues in the position felt the need to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What is on me as chairman is to allow them to do so, to suggest that they address me, what you said, not directly to the MPs, to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to try to give an explanation, if possible. Of course, it is the People’s Assembly that will decide whether or not I, as chairman, have seriously hurt the Rules of Procedure or not, in the day of the vote. I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27855	Article 105 relating to Articles 108 and 109. I can't understand the chairman that you missed the opportunity to make a warning of more than difficult words by Mr. Djurisic. So he said on two occasions -- the thief's ruling coalition, on two occasions. Then you gave the word to Milojicic, who was also here, and you gave the word to Aleksic, and you constantly ignored the apparition of the SNS' violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, Djurisic's words -- the thief's ruling coalition -- were justifying how we sometimes tell them they're thieves. Of course they're thieves. We know Ken was a thief, three billion dinars damaged the Smederjev Palanca budget. I have to ask Mr. Djurisic how he did...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27856	Just talk to me, please, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27857	... A donation of 341,000 DS dinars? What was he doing so he had that kind of pay, so he could donate to a party with 341 thousand dinars? When he gives me the answer to that question, then I'll stop accusing him of being a thief.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27858	My colleague Markovic, I also suggested to my colleagues Đurisic and colleagues Arsic and to all fellow Members of the People's Parliaments who called and pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure to respect the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I cannot really predict how someone will explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and what they will say at some point, but it is up to me to suggest and ask him to go back to what is essential to the citizens of Serbia first of all, and these are legal proposals. (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) I've seen you, Col. Djurishic, it's okay. I think that equal status was given to MPs and MPs of the opposition. I have only respected the order of elected Members who are in the electronic system and have the advantage of co-worker Tomic, for example, waiting about 20 minutes, unable to get a word because colleagues are reporting, pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and among other things, insisting that we return to the agenda and I must allow colleagues to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure with a measure. (Alexander Martinovic: Moderate. I agree with my colleague Martinovic. I always have measures, but, moderately, to find a certain balance between efficiency on the one hand and respect for the right position and opposition on the other hand, believe it's from this position sometimes very difficult. Comrade Markovic, it is up to me to ask you if you would like the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? (No) No, thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27859	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to point out that I believe that you have injured a member of 103 who speaks of the right of MPs to point to a violation of the presidency and the possibility of using this right by the MPs by acting, by taking advantage of the measures contained in the Rules of Procedure from Articles 108 to 111, as stated in Section 7, that is, attitude 8, which speaks of the time-consuming parliamentary group from which an MP who abuses this right comes. Almost all the MPs who appeared from the ruling thief majority spoke here, replicated me, although they had no right to do so. For six years, we've been hearing about the ruling thieving regime. We've been hearing about this for six years without a single piece of evidence, without a single verdict, without the former thieving regime being able to report here and get the right to a replica, and we've been listening to it, we've been putting up with it for six years. Then we here on this side will use the same words. The ruling, thieving regime and seeing who will now be found here called. If you can speak for six years -- the former thief regime, then you can say -- the ruling regime of the government in parliament, if the same rules apply to all. And I don't see the possibility that MPs will appear here in the Rules of Procedure, abuse their rights, replicate me and other colleagues here from the opposition, because we haven't had the right to do so in six years. And, as you've decided today to use the right to submit amendments, so we're going to use the right to use the same words you've been using here for six years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27860	I don't think I've hurt Article 103. When it comes to amendments, it is legitimate that both MPs of the opposition position and MPs should submit amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you cannot take that right away from the MPs. You know, there's only one depression when you say -- the former regime, maybe you're thinking about the regime from 1990 to 2000, I don't know what former regime. So it's not precise. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you. The word has been made by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27861	I thank the chairman. I think you've hurt Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, given that you have allowed one extreme rude behavior, a werewolf who exudes in a dictionary of unculture, vulgarity and insult. The MPs here certainly don't deserve it, and neither do the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who listen to such a werewolf of rudeness, vulgarity and insult. If you speak in a dictionary as it is said from the words of the previous speaker, then we come to the situation that every discussion here will be embodies both with unculture and rudeness. I ask you to sanction such MPs in the future, because first of all, I am from the interest of my MP group, because there are no thieves in the SPS parliamentary group, as I believe the entire majority. If one of us wants to impose one such insult, one such qualification, he has to prove it. Here, it must not be allowed, and I ask that in future for such situations, for such insults, which concern us, first of all, start from me through my colleagues sitting next to me and on the one hand and on the other, then it must really be worth a certain coincidence, and you, Mr. Chairman, are obliged to carry out these conventions, or that those who say it suffer, in particular, the one who said it is not, as you see, even get a warning, which is the least of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27862	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I'll think about, of course, and about your proposal, I think it's going towards a constructive debate and what the goal is, and that's to go back to what are the points of the agenda. You suggest we sanction the MPs unless they respect the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly. I am not a war again to use it at certain times, because I think we can always find some compromise and I think that we should always keep in mind all together what is the interest of the citizens of Serbia, which is to talk about legal proposals, because indeed, before us, I repeat, who knows which way legal proposals are of great importance and importance to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. It's only up to me as chairman to ask you if you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27863	I thank the chairman. Who's a thief and who's not a thief, that's what the numbers say. It's probably Mr. Djurisic leaving from that -- it's not a thief who steals, it's one who gets caught. But we have the figures, and the figures say the debts came in, the total debt in 2013 was 1.118,760,000 dinars. That all interest on loans of 662 million and all debts of public enterprises at 336 million. Fifty million remained owed to social categories in the city of Belgrade. It is perfectly understandable that the anxiety is great and not only with Mr Đurisic, but also with other members of the opposition, because it is an announcement by Dragan Gilas for the Belgrade elections to announce his candidacy. But what's even better about the gondola itself, in the "Plaise of the Public" magazine since 30 April 2004, was a presentation of a gondola project that was said to cost 14m euros and that Belgrade's citizens would pay off such a single loan in seven years. So the numbers say who's a thief and who's not a thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27864	counterpart Tomic, the figures say something else, and who is a thief, and who is not supposed to say it by the competent authorities and competent institutions. Thank you. (Marco Djurisic: Replica. Mr. Djurishic, you've been mentioned. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27865	Thank you, Chairman. You helped me in the replica and what the numbers say. The figures say Belgrade's debt four years ago was not 1.200,000, as it exists only in the mathematics of one ruling party, and apparently all other mathematics speaks of some other numbers. Of course, it's about what anyone did during their management in Belgrade or some other part of the Republic of Serbia, so by 2014, three bridges were built in Belgrade, several thousand apartments were built. Only the state in Stepa Stepanovic's village made 4,600 apartments. What you are now suggesting may begin in the spring of next year, as another false pre-election promise, which you will offer to the citizens of Belgrade before the elections, instead of results, because in four years in Belgrade, you have managed to create a singing fountain for 2,000 euros and to reconstruct three streets six months before the elections by blocking the entire city, and now you have various promises. One of them is a mast at the mouth, and the other is a gondola, a senseless gondola that Serbian citizens, from the budget you want to adopt here in the Assembly, without debate, should pay 10,000 euros, plus another 5,000 euros from the city budget. I'm only sure that this gondola will never come to life, like the one you're talking about in 2004, because obviously there was no economic justification for it, and for this gondola there will be no opportunity, because you will lose power in next year's elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27866	Replica, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27867	It's clear that good results everyone likes to take. I didn't know that DS, or all of those parties that were formed by 2004, ruled Belgrade, since it had to be formed temporarily bigger in the City of Belgrade in 2013, just half of the year because Mr. Gilas lost the assembly majority, because the committees realized what a difficult financial situation Belgrade was and that he was unable to serve all these debts that were due on Day 31. 12. In 2013, she just registered at 1.118,000,000. Therefore, all this story is in favour of us having results and we have before the citizens of Belgrade to go to elections and to say what it is that we have done, and what it is that we are just going to do, and Mr Dragan Gilas is going to pick up the entire opposition now, he will not have enough power to defend himself against all these attacks, especially concerning financial debts and those witnesses with whom he simply remained in debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27868	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108, MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27869	I called right after Mr. Markovic from the SNS. (Alexander Martinovic: When it was. ) Therefore, it becomes common for this MP to present such insults, lies and qualifications at the expense of the opposition MPs. So, that, Mr. Milicevic, not that it shouldn't, but simply, it doesn't have to happen in the Assembly anymore to go unpunished, that such lies at the expense of the opposition MPs are being brought out. This devalues the work of the National Assembly, devalues and insults the MPs representing citizens in the Serbian Parliament. Once again, all security structures are in the hands of the SNS. Either he's not telling the truth, not to say he's lying, or those security structures are incapable of solving the problems he's talking about, and I'm asking you to punish any of these next qualifications and insults like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27870	I thank my colleague, Nikolic. Article 103(2) - The MP may point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately following its conduct. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, because there's been a debate and one debate, and who knows which way I say, Mr. Nikolic, to predict what one of the MPs is going to talk about? You can't get a replica. [[Radoslav Milojičić: Can I have a replica now?]] The Republic gets either the boss or the deputy head of the parliamentary group. (Radoslav Milojic: I am mentioned. No, you're not mentioned. You've misread it. And even if they had mentioned you, it would have been positive. You're not sure to mention it. We're moving on. The People's MPs George Komlenski and Bojan Torbica submitted to the 3rd Amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27871	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, our amendment refers to the proposal that planning, preparation, adoption, implementation of the budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to be in the function of reducing poverty, unlike the time of the rule of the former regime, when it was in the function of personal wealth of the yellow cartel officials, and in order to illustrate this, I will only say that the expert on petty and large crime only from March to May to 2016, in his favorite cafe in Smederjevska Palanca spent 457,710 dinars on liters of beer, coffee, juices and this is naturally invoiced on municipal administration. Papers show that the expert on small and large crime spent more time in a pub than at his workplace, which is why it is no wonder that he left the municipality to the heirs in debt to the throat. In his favorite coffee shop "Atrium", non-intentional and public procurement, he spent the money of the municipality in the amount of 457,710,00 dinars between 24 March and 25 May 2016. All of this is accompanied by photocopies of accounts that clearly show his signature. Thus, only 13 May 2016, the Palanic Express for Small and Large Crimes listed the amazing 139.850,00 dinars and almost everything for beer. Thus, on that day or evening municipal money was paid 65 bottles of "Lav" beer, 135 bottles of "Tuborga", 143 "Heinekena", 13 lemonade, 15 squeezed oranges. Also, on April 27th in Atrium, he listed 110,800,00 dinars for coffee, soda and untapped water, and on the same day in the same place a new price was made, although somewhat more modest, because then he made 60,335.00 dinars for coffee, squeezed oranges, lemonade and water. There's another bill of 53,275,00 dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27872	My colleague's bag...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27873	However, it was not the only catering facility visited by experts and his associates...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27874	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27875	... Since their costs on catering services in 2015 are 3,516,127,00 dinars, while only during the first half of 2016 are 2,894,240,00 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27876	I saw you, my colleague Milojic, and I saw that Mr. Alexic also called to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The amendment may be good and I will personally consider whether I will vote in favour of the amendment, but, colleague Torbica, I ask you not to take in the future such a broad context of consideration and reason why someone would vote in favour of the amendment, but to focus on the essence of the amendment to Article 3. That's my request, and that's what I was going to suggest, not wanting to interrupt your exposure. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27877	Mr. Milicevic, I have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27878	No, you're not mentioned by name and name, colleague Milojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27879	All right. I'm advertising Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27880	I understand you've pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27881	The speaker must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Whenever someone from the Socialist Movement comes forward for a word, it automatically disrespects the Parliament's dignity. I hope you'll be fair and allow me to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, as the previous speaker spoke of the amendment. If the main problem in Serbia is 110,000 dinars and some 110,000 dinars, God forbid it's true for all Serbian citizens. I accept that this is my biggest mistake, some account of 110 thousand dinars, which I have no idea is true, but make it 110 thousand dinars the biggest problem, but what are we going to do with the purchase of a million euros conducted by Minister Vulin in Kosovo, getting cameras? What are we going to do about this man buying an apartment of 250,000 euros? These are the problems, and that is how Serbian citizens are robbed. Serbia's citizens do not have a problem with an account, which is also a fake, of 110,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27882	Just talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27883	Of course, I'm talking to you. Those who sent cannons to students, as Minister Vulin did, this is a problem for Serbian citizens. For Serbian citizens, the problem is that the army is hungry, that the army does not have a new uniform. The problem is that last year 800 members of the Army, professional soldiers, left the country. The military was an institution with the highest confidence of citizens in it, and now the army is an institution from which it escapes. That's what Vulin and the team brought Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27884	I didn't want to interrupt you, you see. I let you explain two minutes. Because of what you have stated in your explanation, you believe that I have violated a specific article in 107 that you have stated? (Radoslav Milojic: Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly because you did not interrupt the previous speaker. This was more appropriate rhetoric. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Radoslav Milojic: Of course. I thank you. The word has been made by MP Bojan Bagica, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27885	Article 104. I wasn't just talking about some, the MP didn't get it right, about 100,000, because I didn't really have time to say how much this same expert on small and large-scale crime had left in Smederjevska Palanca, so when we say that only after his departure from power to JP "Palanka Development" was 7,800,000 for outstanding earnings, the total debt of 380 million dinar companies, the preschool facility "Chica Jova Dragon" the outstanding earnings amounted to 37.5 million, and the total debt of 93 million...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27886	Comrade Bagby, I will now ask you, as well as Mr. Milojicic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27887	So no one's talking about only 100,000, but we're talking about four billion dinars that a small and large crime expert has left in debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27888	Okay. I realized that you now further explained what I had done to hurt the Rules of Procedure. All I ask is that you address all of this directly to me, not to your fellow Members. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Folder bag: No.) I thank you. The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27889	Thank you. I don't have time to watch TV, but she said, "When you're hungry, you're not all yours" seems to be correct. I'm advertising Article 108. After all, if any of these lies were true, I wouldn't have the DS with me as a carrier two years ago had those results in that community that she had, and even if that was true as the previous speaker said, we wouldn't have won, as we will win in March in the local elections. So, all these lies and lies due to the lack of a political programme, due to the lack of knowledge to speak about the budget, because of the ignorance that Serbian citizens really live, it goes to the picture of Martinovic, Mr Komlenski and others who humiliate Serbian citizens here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27890	My friend Milojić, please don't, you can't, I asked you. I made it possible for you to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you did not respect it. I asked you not to address the MPs directly, but to address me directly. (Radoslav Milojic: I spoke to you. You're not. You spoke to the MPs. I'm asking you not to do it anymore. I expected you to give me a detailed explanation of what I was in, other than the commercial that you initially defined, although she is not understandable either, but well, everything else I really didn't understand as the reason why I as chairman would have done a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Radoslav Milojic: Yes. I thank you. The word is made by MP Miroslav Aleksic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27891	Thank you. I'm advertising article 106, and I'm showing you that the speaker who spoke according to the amendment allowed you to talk all the time about the menu of a restaurant, some prices of drinks, coffee, etc. I beg you, here are three ministers sitting in front of us, and we need to talk today about the amendments, the laws that are proposed, specifically about the Budgetary System Act, and it is completely inappropriate and incorrect to allow someone to abuse the amendment they have submitted in such a brutal way. In doing so, I understand the ruling parties who were tasked with submitting 300 and more amendments to the laws before the Budget Law, in order to avoid the debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27892	And please, now, speak to me. What did I do to hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27893	I'm talking to you. Well, you let a man who talks about the amendment talk about the menu of a restaurant and talk about the prices of coffee, drinks and so forth. I ask you that when we talk about amendments, that we talk about salaries and pensions, that we talk about subsidies that will be received by public enterprises, about new duties next year, about what the citizens are interested in and what the citizens want to hear, in the end, and about these amendments, about how many amendments the government has submitted to prevent in particular discussions on the Budget Law. Let's hear what these amendments are, where the ruling structures make an amendment to the government's proposal. This is nothing more than a new leap by the ruling parties to draw attention from new responsibilities, from salaries and pensions in the budget, from gondola, from subsidies to public enterprises and everything else that carries the devastating economic policy planned in the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27894	My colleague Alexic, I just want to ask you, as well as the previous speakers, that when you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have received your word, of course, and I have made it possible for you to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but don't talk about abuse. Don't use that right and replicate with colleagues from the ruling coalition. If you followed the course of the session well, I asked my colleague's bag for exactly what you suggested. Legally, it is the right of an MP to submit an amendment. It is legitimate for the MPs to explain the amendments in the time they belong and as the applicant and the time that belongs to the parliamentary club that represents, and no one can take that right away from him. I agree with you in one thing, it is important that we respect the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly through the interpretation of the amendments, throughout the course of the debate, but it is important that we return to what is on the agenda, because we are talking about significant and important legislative proposals. Here, help me and you get back on the agenda. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Miroslav Aleksic: Yes. I thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27895	Thank you. I'm just checking in for that reason you just said. I answer because I want to help you, and I want to suggest that, in accordance with Article 112, we take the measure that is not invasive, so it doesn't mean any punishment, it doesn't mean that time is taken, though, not for those who don't have it anymore, nor for those who have little left, it doesn't mean any warnings, taking away words, nothing like that. I wanted to suggest to you because obviously we have a problem with the discipline and concentration of the MPs, Mr. Chairman, for example. with a concentration to stick to the subject without satisfying the urges and desires of those who would obviously wash because they themselves have submitted an amendment with Santa to comment on other people's amendments today. We do not need this and it is neither holding the subject nor keeping an eye on the dignity of the congregation. Also, because there are people who care terribly about explaining that Boris Tadic was a political genius, he just lost sight of the debacle in 2012 and that since then he's not worth a pipe of tobacco, that we don't go out to meet either the impulses or the desires of those who unusually care to prove...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27896	Just talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27897	Of course, to you, I'm telling you all this. Not to meet the wishes of those who unusually care to prove, in practice prove that they are not by chance presidents of the executive board of the yellow company, but because they are the only ones there who are more intellectually superior to Dragan Sutanovac. I wanted to suggest that, in accordance with Article 112, you take a short break so that those hot heads cool down a little bit, that passions calm down a little bit, so that we can discuss these amendments further. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27898	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27899	Thank you. You know I don't like to be called to the Rules of Procedure, and I hate to advertise it. I would like to point out to Article 108 that there is an order in the session of the old president, that is, the chairman. I think that, despite the commendable or commendable tolerance you show, you are bad at this session right now, I appeal to you, I say, with this commendation, conditionally speaking, that you have allowed a lot of these injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I think it's the biggest, not the biggest, but one of the major violations of the Parliament's dignity is that the controversy is conducted under the company's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I appeal to you and to the other chair to be tolerated in giving replicas. The Assembly is a place for political replicas and conflicts, and even personal address, but it's a very ugly and bad message if it's done under the company "injure the Rules of Procedure", then it looks like someone... Some are allowed this right, some are deprived of that right. You have allowed more or less of everyone, and in this sense I commend you, but as someone who conducts the session and someone who in some way contributes to the collapse of dignity, I ask you to, paradoxically agree with the proposal of the other side, intervene and that in future you give replicas, that you give much more tolerance to the replicas, but that you do not allow damage to the dignity of the Assembly under the company of advertising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, because it really destroys the dignity of this home, which is otherwise not at a high level, when it comes to public reputation. I'm not asking us to make a statement about this. I'm not asking for a statement, but think seriously about you and the other chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27900	A colleague, Vukadinovic, was finally agreed, as you said, on the other hand, between the position and the opposition, and I will not allow further debate to continue, through the apparition of the Rules of Procedure's injury. I have the same wish as you, and so do my colleagues in position. In accordance with Article 112, I'm going to take a short break of two minutes to get back to what's on the agenda. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27902	Thank you, Chairman. How much the Government of the Republic of Serbia invests in the area of infrastructure for better integration with its neighbours is best said that among the largest and most significant projects that Serbia is implementing in the area of infrastructure there is not one that is not of regional importance, starting with what is most talked about, which is Corridor 10, and there is thought of both road and rail traffic, and new projects. What will contribute significantly to the improvement of infrastructure is the start of the construction of the Nis-Merdare-Pristina-Tirana-Dras highway, where the European Investment Bank has already agreed to finance the first 40km of road, worth 220m euros. This is very important, because Serbia has no way out of the sea and we are trying to provide an even better connection with the port of Bar where, apart from the railway, we will have a freeway, and also through the port of Durres, we will provide access to the sea. Also, it's about to sign a contract for another 31-mile-long section of the corridor, which is from Preljina to Požega. All these projects that seemed impossible, and especially during one of the worst periods in Serbian history from 2000 to 2012, began to be realized by the arrival of the SNS authorities and more every day. I also said yesterday that the current value of investment in infrastructure is 12 billion euros, and I don't know how and how so much malice, cynicism and hatred by certain colleagues for all that is good in Serbia. They had a chance to lead the country and instead of working for the people, they were personally rich and thus led the state to bankruptcy. That's why Belgrade citizens are careful, the yellow tycoon team is re-sharping its teeth and is once again preparing to fool Belgrade's citizens and collapse into Belgrade's budget, and we know what it looked like when they ruled Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27903	The word has the People's MP Ana Čaapić, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27904	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the amendment submitted by my colleague, Blaža Knezevic, to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act. In fact, our government has invested intensively and allocated significant budgets for infrastructure projects so far, and will do so in the future. A practical example of this is recognition by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and, of course, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia of importance and priority in the construction of the E80 highway, i.e. the Niš-Pristina highway, whose realization is expected in 2018. Well, since I'm from Toplice County, from the municipality of Kursumli, in my personal name, on behalf of the Municipality of Kursumli, on behalf of the SNS, I express special satisfaction in the realization of this project. The highway will connect Serbia with Albania, be the main hub of the Balkans and the link between Turkey and the EU, will also connect the Adriatic via Corridor 10 with Corridor Four, which passes through Romania and Bulgaria. The ultimate goal of the E80 highway construction project is to draw investments from the municipalities of Toplička district i.e. It collects, Kurzumli, Žitoraj and Blace, but in the final and improvement of the general conditions of life for our fellow citizens. Also, in the municipality of Kursumli, the reconstruction of Kosovo Street in the city centre of a mile long has just been completed, and our municipality, along with the Public Enterprise, has singled out about 11 million dinars for the implementation of this project. This all indicates that our government is investing in infrastructure and that it advocates even regional development. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27905	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that the nerves of the remains of the so-called remains continue today. The opposition in Serbia, led by television leaders, makeup and twitters. My amendment is to support the government of the Republic of Serbia in a policy in the domain of defence of the Republic of Serbia. All of our amendments are compatible with the government policy of the Republic of Serbia, that we have a better armed army, that we have a better-paid army, that we have an army, police and security services that have resolved existential issues, and above all a residential issue. Also, I would like to say that we support the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy that no longer exists in its ranks as former defence minister, the current president of the Democratic Party, otherwise the victim of the regime of Aleksandr Vukic, by being employed in the "Yugoimport" SDPR and being very difficult for him, otherwise, in his life. So, in the Serbian government, there is no longer such a man who in 2010 acquired a mobile radio relay system and damaged the Republic of Serbia by 270 million dinars. Such criminals, such thieves in the government of the Republic of Serbia are gone and therefore our army, our police, and therefore our security services are much better, much more equipped than they were.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27907	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27908	Dear Chairman, I think you should have given Mr. Martinovic a warning, because he made the worst possible insults and lies. Dragan Sutanovac is not an employee of the SDPR and I ask him to bring me that evidence. And I ask you to warn the messengers not to tell the lie and not to lie so clearly. Dragan Sutanovac is not an employee of the SDPR and bring proof that Dragan Sutanovac is an SDPR employee. This is killing everything you're saying, all the lies you're saying about people from the DS. I know what pains you, DS, because only DS can beat you in both organisational and human and infrastructure and beat you. Mr. Arsic, it really doesn't make sense that now I'm saying that some MP is working here and there and I'm not telling the truth. We don't want to say it, I'm asking you to influence it, although I know you can't know what anyone's going to say here. I repeat again, the SNS has thus fallen and proved that everything he's saying is not telling the truth. Prove that Dragan Sutanovac works in the SDPR. Prove it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27909	My friend Milojičić, you said everything, you just didn't say which member of the breach of the Rules of Procedure... (Radoslav Milojic: I said Article 108) You didn't say, so I'm not able to read your thoughts or know if it's true or not, so I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27910	Article 103 and 104, I'll say it at the very beginning, Mr. Chairman. I think it should've been as soon as that earlier appearance turned into a brutal abuse to react, right away, because I think it was more than obvious from the very way he got up here, so he started waving his hands and yelling at the MP what he was going to do. I think it was obvious that he used it for a classic replica, that it had absolutely nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I don't really know how to figure it out, what it had to do with the formal rules of whether he liked it, personally, what he heard or didn't like. For example, I have also received information, very reliable information, that Dragan Sutanovac may no longer have a working relationship with the company because he did not show up at work and that the contract was terminated for these reasons. Now, whether he was there in the meantime receiving a salary or where he was getting his salary when he saved a million and a half euros worth of pasture land on Vrakar, they never explained it to us. But it's a matter of personal relationship, Mr. Chairman, of the People's MP to what was said in the O.R. It has nothing to do with formal rules, nor does it allow anyone to report for replication. As they never answered us from where anyone, is it from the parliamentary salary or from the ministerial salary of 300,000 euros worth of real estate, so savings accounts with 300,000 euros on them, those various bills in currencies, I can't remember anymore, there's dinars and pounds and euros, I don't know if there's any German stamps left? So they've never answered that, but they react badly when they're reminded of it. Well, now and in the case of this SDPR. Whether the president of that party, the "yellow company", is still in a working relationship or has been fired because he has not come to work, it should be discussed internally. There's no reason for them to abuse the Rules of Procedure here to explain to us that they're not satisfied with what they're hearing. A lot of things they're not happy about, but for that, they always have to turn to themselves, first of all. And yes, that money to explain, it's about time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27911	My colleague Orlic, I am not able to take away more than one second more of the DS, or its parliamentary club, because they have no more time available on any basis, except by amendment. The time of the parliamentary group and the time of the head of the parliamentary group has been spent, and don't blame me for giving Mr. Milojic some time, we're going to need the opposition. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27912	Article 27, Mr. Arsic. I don't know why I'm so nervous about these remnants of the opposition. They yell all the time, they yell, they shout, they threaten, they jump, they wave their hands. There's no room for that, they'll beat us, say it themselves, in the Belgrade elections. Whoever wins, he must be calm, he's satisfied, he's in the mood. I doubt he's nervous. What I meant to say is, it's no shame when a man works in the SDPR, it's a shame when a man from the minister's position steals his own state. It's a shame. It is no shame that Mr. Sutanovac was the bodyguard of Mira Markovic in his day. That's no shame. It is no shame that Mr. Dragan Sutanovac was a night club bouncer in Belgrade in his time. It's no shame. Because a man worked in his youth, little as a bodyguard, Mira Markovic, little as a night bouncer, studied a man for 12 years. Okay, a little later he finished his college, but it's not that bad either. What is problematic for the state is, among other things, the fact that Dragan Sutanovac, when he was elected in 2007 to the defence minister in his official biography, wrote as a minority, a recommendation for the defence minister, that he ended up so-called. Marshall's intelligence course in Garnišpatenkirhen. The Maltena man came to the Parliament with paper – hey, guys, I'm a foreign agent, choose me as defence minister. That's why everything that happened to us with the Army of Serbia happened to us - the drowning of tanks, artillery tools, the destruction of anti-rocket systems, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27913	Time. Continuing are colleagues Martinović and Radoslav Milojic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27914	Mr. Arsic, I should advertise all the members of the Rules of Procedure. Well, I'm advertising art. 27th and 107th and only to do the truth, no SNS works, the Sartid melts carbon steel, which anyone who has IQ above one should know, and the tanks, here, can also confirm former Defence Minister Djordjevic, are made of alloyed steel. Smart man enough. That it is not possible, if even someone wants to melt tanks in Sartid, and that is another pre-election SNS flossula and another untrue, such as all that Mr. Martinovic said, and that Dragan Sutanovac is currently working in the SDPR. Name me and get me a piece of paper that Dragan Sutanovac is currently working at the SDPR. It's simply not true, and we can deal with both the character and the work of Alexander Vukic and all of you from the SNS. The SNS are getting it. Please don't interrupt me. We can talk about who bombed this country. We can talk about who took the paychecks, who took the pensions. We can talk about who beat up the press at the inauguration. We can talk about people getting out of the army, strike the police, bring in a representative of the military union. We can talk about all those things SNS has been doing for six years, ruining Serbia. Such as Dragan Sutanovac was the defence minister, the fact that ten generals of the Serbian Army joined the DS and the great generals. You can ask people who at least understand each other a little in the Army, unlike you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27915	My colleague Milojičić, one question – do you think that I have violated the Rules of Procedure regarding your discussion that you have now had? I'm just asking you as a fellow MP. Okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27916	Article 107, Mr. Arsic. I repeat, it's no shame that a man is employed in the SDPR, no shame to receive a salary. It was a shame and it was a shame for the ruling coalition at the time to choose a man who openly admitted to working for foreign interests, and because of this, we had a problem with the destruction of the tanks, which caused us to destroy the cannons, which is why we destroyed thousands of anti-racquet systems of different types, and therefore the Serbian Army was absolutely unable to carry out its basic task, which is to defend the country against external aggression. Today the situation is completely different. Today, the Serbian Army is much better equipped. These moments have arrived, which you of the DS have said are old buckets, armored vehicles are arriving, tanks are arriving, Serbia's army is better paid, there will be 10% of people with higher salaries. As for those generals of yours that you joined the DS, well, I know what it was like, or you're gonna be a member of the DS, or you're gonna retire. That's what happened. Otherwise, I doubt anyone would come to the party led by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the rank of corporal. As for what I've already said about Mr. Sutanovac's career, well, that's all true. The man was, behold, can also be confirmed by colleagues from individual parliamentary groups, the man raised the ramp at the direction of JUL, was the bodyguard of Mirjana Markovic, working as an outcast from nightclubs. Then I come up with some weird living circumstances, finishing intelligence courses, who knows where in the white world, became the Secretary of Defense and completely ruined our army. If there hadn't been a change in 2012, we armies wouldn't have any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27917	Thank you. Now I know that Mr. Milojic will be mad at me, but the word has a folk MP, Maja Vidinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27918	Why would he be mad because I called earlier? You will always be welcomed respecting the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Arsic, please listen carefully. You have violated Article 106, look at all the views of this member and please listen carefully. The fact that the abuse of the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic, who here, allegedly speaking of hurting the Rules of Procedure, accuses the President of DS, any citizen of being a foreign agent and of working in someone's service, and therefore allegedly ruined the Army, is something that you absolutely cannot tolerate. The way Dragan Sutanovac managed the ministry he was running speaks to everyone. The active members of the army today say it's the only period when the military is professionalized and the system is arranged. What's inadmissible is abuse. Mr. Martinovic, if you will, with his amendment, has advocated that if I understand you correctly, correct me, they have such a material situation that will allow them to come to resolve their housing issue, as they recognize that a man who has solved his living issue, who has anything to do with the defence, Minister Vulin, who was given money to by his aunt in Canada. It's the only man who has anything to do with the military, and it's a disgrace to the SNS and to this authority. I ask you not to allow anyone, Dragan Sutanovac, or any citizen of Serbia to be accused of being an agent from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and of doing something in the interest of another country. You can't accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27919	My colleague Vidinović, to remind you, a colleague of Martinovic explained his amendment, then your colleague from the parliamentary group, Mr Milojic, through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, made a replica and so began all of this. I remember perfectly. Through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've made a replica. You discussed it as a replica. Please don't. Now the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27920	Article 104, Mr. Chairman, because of this persistent replication where it doesn't belong. Which is interesting, not only the replication of the MPs who are here in the O.R., but obviously some replication of the people outside the O.R. In the part where justice, I really don't understand it as something that we need to tolerate, I understand as the need of someone who does, that justice for the fact that is really the fact of the biography of Dragan Sutanovac. He himself wrote that his greatest achievement in life was the completion of an elite NATO course. If that is why this man, Dragan Sutanovac, listens to statements such as – Serbia is guilty of causing the work, Serbia is guilty of getting sanctions, then maybe it is a thing that can easily be connected when he listens. You're dealing with a question whose interest it is, whose interest Dragan Sutanovac is working for, when he says such things. But that's the interest of this country and its citizens, hard. Now, as for replicating people outside the O.R., this is where I recognized a kind of replica, that is, addressing some of the generals who joined the DS in the meantime. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is not easy for these people to listen to their President Dragan Sutanovac say that they, these generals, caused wars at the time when they wore uniforms, when he said those generals were guilty of sanctions imposed on this country at the time they wore uniforms. If they're arguing with people who have recently joined them, it's their internal debate, not to tell a story they're doing in a family circle. But let them stop, in such words, brutally insulting all those people who fought for this country, all those people who paid with their heads for their families, their people, their country, everything they cared about, everything they cared about at that time. These were difficult years for Serbia, these people did not cheer like DS against their country and did not justify the horror that was happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27921	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27922	I'm advocating a violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 27, which speaks of the chairman being exclusively chaired by this session, not MPs telling you what to do or not to do. By abuse of Article 103 and Article 104 at the same time, because they are closely bound, in Article 103 is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and in Article 104 is defined when someone has the right to replication. In his first attitude, he says, "If the Messenger of the people is abusively spoken of by another Messenger of the people and some of the other persons of this matter. I believe you violated the Rules of Procedure when you were giving replicas, because MP Martinovic didn't say anything ugly about the president of the DS. The president of the DS doesn't hide at all that maybe by yesterday, the day before yesterday, he was employed in the South-Import SDPR, I don't know what that is, and why one of the leaders of the opposition party can't be employed in a state-owned company, because there are more. For example, Sasa Jankovic's wife is employed at the MUP, where many DS executives work here, which I can prove. So it's nothing ugly, it shows only the good side of the government led by the SNS and our coalition partners who have no vindictiveness whatsoever. Someone who got a job on time, took advantage of his position, that's fine. As for training, as you said, some military training in NATO's system, intelligence, that's also what the president of the DS has never given up. I ask that there be no more replicas on these subjects. I recently read the biography of Honorary Member Aleksandra Jerkov, where she presented the most official biography that along with expert training, PhDs, just to say that they would not be nervous in the future, because it will be repeated, more informal forms of education, seminars and training of the CIA on political engagement. So I don't see what's been said ugly about anyone here, so they can get by article 104 of the replica now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27923	Thank you. I believe your advertising of the Rules of Procedure has been directed towards the session continuing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the agenda. So now I'm setting a break in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure for one minute. After the end of the break, we continue to work on the agenda points. [[after breaks]] National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27925	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to the next topic, and colleagues from the opposition may have something to say about this, because the objective of submitting this amendment is to further encourage the development of the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia, in order to improve the financial basis for the judicial system. Why am I so incentivising the justice system of the Republic of Serbia and proposing a greater allocation of financial resources? Because I remember how the justice system once looked, how the Venice Commission assessed the reform of the judiciary, under the auspices of the DS, was disastrously poor, that the justice system had been destroyed for years, that DS adherence was crucial to re-election, and judges were elected at closed sessions, fired at closed sessions, without explanation, that the practice was to assess DS leaders for judges and prosecutors, the real lists by DS committees, and all of which was witnessed by the Judges' Society, which was signed by the then chairman of the DS Municipal Committee in Vlasotinc and the President of the Vlasotince Municipality, who also abused the municipal seal. The objective of this amendment is practically that I must urge that special attention be paid to the judicial system, because Serbia can no longer afford that luxury of re-judgment as in the time of the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27926	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27927	I have to respond to the previous facts presented by the MP, as far as tanks and conditions are concerned in the military. Namely, in 2012, I will only go back, so you correct me if any of this is wrong, in 2012, it was found that our dedicated industry was in disaster. In 2012, you say and boast about professionalizing the Army, and you didn't care what you did with those soldiers when they turned 42 and you had to throw them out on the street. Then you say people are leaving the army. Now this government and this ministry take care of them, wants to change the atmosphere and wants to give these young people and stay in the military, but also have some kind of requalification so they can get a job somewhere. When it comes to tanks, where they are melted is less important, it is important how many Serbia has sold, how much money and whom. If I can tell you, and I'm not allowed to present the facts to which countries were sold and for what small amount, you would be ashamed, and perhaps pride to you for doing such a good thing, for selling a lot of weapons for a little bit of money. What I can tell you, when it comes to uniforms, is, and you mentioned that, in 2012, half of Serbia's army was in one uniform, and half of it was in M10 uniform. What's today is that everyone has a set of uniforms new and the fact is they also have a summer uniform that wasn't even thinking back then. Back then, in 2012, a MiG 29 was flying. You can call to ask, all this is exactly what I'm telling you. One MiG 29 was flying, and today 10 of them will fly, not six of them as you speak. It's 10. Serbia's army also bought 10 new Erbas helicopters. Serbia's army also bought MiG 17 new helicopters. Serbia's army will receive both armored vehicles and new tanks. That's all the facts, and the people, now I'm talking here, can check, time's going, so we're going to make a passing time, and in this same assembly, we're going to talk about whether this is true or not. Will the Airbus helicopters fly or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27928	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27929	I thank the chairman. President-in-Office, gentlemen of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, my amendment today concerns budget planning, and I believe that the increase in money for capital projects planned in the 2018 budget is particularly important in terms of economic growth, as public investment represents one of the most qualitative aspects of state spending, which has the greatest impact on the positive GDP growth of all fiscal measures. Just now, one of the MPs of the "yellow company" spoke about the truth. You know what's true? The truth is that in 2009, the "yellow company" planned 40 billion for these same capital investments, and we today have 128 billion. It is true that in 2010, they planned 33 billion, it is true that in 2011, they planned 31 billion, so less and less. And in 2012, they planned 22 billion. So we'd probably keep going to zero, but thank God they didn't stay in power. The truth is what the macroeconomic indicator also shows, so let's say, the unemployment rate in 2008 was 13.6.2009 in 16.1 in 2010 19.2 and in 2011 23. and in 2012 the unemployment rate was 23.9% of the gentlemen. It is true that at the time of SNS, the unemployment rate in 2015 was 17.7. 2016 15.3 and 2017 below 13% of the gentlemen. That's what we do, because that's what they do. Public debt, gentlemen, is true that public debt grew next in the time of the "yellow company", in 2008, eight billion, in 2009, nine billion 800 million, in 2010, 12 billion, in 14 billion and 700 million, in 2012 17 billion and 700 million. So, for eight billion and 936 million gentlemen have managed to repay themselves for four years, and during the SNS from 2016 to 2017, public debt is lower by 520m euros, gentlemen. It is also true that we planned capital expenditures in this budget. Nine billion dinars for one highway, nine billion dinars for the E-75 highway, that's the second highway we had, then for the E-80 highway we planned three billion and 756 million, and still, in the next amendment, we'll talk about everything we planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27930	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. (Radoslav Milojic): How can I not get a breach of the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27931	Mr Arsic, a member of 103 has been injured and a 27th member has been injured, which obliges you to conduct the National Assembly sessions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of Rule 103 says - the MP has the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, which he considers to be out of line with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. He can't point to that injury he's already pointed to. The president of the National Assembly gives a word to the MP who points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed, with the presidents of the parliamentary groups having the advantage. The MP is obliged to indicate which member is injured and to explain what the injury is, with which he can speak for up to two minutes. Furthermore, Article 103 says -- if he believes the injury has not been done, the president of the assembly is obliged to give an explanation. If the MP continues to feel that the injury has been done, he may request that the National Assembly declare this in the day of the vote, etc., that I do not read all of it to you. I suppose, Mr. Arsic, that you've had to hear these provisions by now, and I doubt you've had to remember them. Because you don't respect them, I can't characterize them any differently, but as your wish to deliberately violate the Rules of Procedure and deny the rights of MPs. Mr. Milojicic has reported to the Rules of Procedure several times. You were obliged to give him your word. You are not psychic, nor are you authorized by the Rules of Procedure to have any prior examination of whether he is right or not. If he answered, it's yours to give him your word. If you abuse, then you can express other measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27932	I don't think I've violated the regulations of the Rules of Procedure you quoted. Please don't recommend yourself to DS anymore, to be her lawyer. If you're her lawyer, like you were our bankruptcy manager, we're in big trouble. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. ) Dear fellow Milojičić, allow your colleague Vukojičić to begin the discussion. (Radoslav Milojic: I will, but you allow me to hurt the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27933	Thank you... (Radoslav Milojic): How can I not get the right to the Rules of Procedure? You insulted Maja Vidinović just now. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27934	Comrade Milojičić, allow your colleague Vukojičić to begin the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27935	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, my amendment refers to improving the position of the most vulnerable social groups. Here, first of all, I was thinking of improving the position of victims of domestic violence. The Serbian Progressive Party has a clear stance on domestic violence, which is a zero tolerance and a clear message that a bully must be punished. Unfortunately, I cannot talk about what the former regime and the former Democratic Party did for reasons that they were absolutely not sensitive to the problems of sensitive social groups, and that includes victims of domestic violence. So I have to say that in the last three years, the first time, when the Prime Minister was Alexander Vukic, was passed the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which not only protects the victim, but also prevents domestic violence. I must also point out that, continuing this policy, this government in the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children for the first time predicted that the victim of domestic violence in the exercise of his rights did not have to contribute to evidence of the property of a bully. Also, I must say that for the first time in three years, measures of active employment policy have been applied when it comes to victims of domestic violence and victims of human trafficking. Just one more, for the first time, 30 million were provided at the labour ministry for the opening of a national SOS phone line to protect victims of domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27936	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27937	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the 106th member has been injured. A previous pay phone, a respected colleague, said something I really believed that, with all the differences and all the disagreements, with all the accusations, I didn't believe we could experience in the National Assembly. You know, it's never happened to anyone that the victims of domestic violence puts them in the context of politics and the former regime. That's the most monstrous thing I've ever heard. Fully believing that a colleague is not aware of her words, but because of the fact that this remains recorded and that this message is inadmissible, we can disagree, we can blame ourselves, you can lie about this former regime that haunts you, you can do everything, but it is totally unacceptable, that the victims of family violence in these shameful amendments, that today, three days before we adopt the new budget, in this way you speak, fully convinced that it was not your intention, because of the danger and inadmissibility that we hear such a thing, I ask you, Vice President, and you react to something like that. We listen all day long, we listen to all these days of incredible lies and accusations at the expense of the Democratic Party alone and only so the citizens can't hear about how they live and what the Serbian Progressive Party, particularly with this budget, is actually talking about them. He says there's no room for young people, he says there's no room for pensioners who are anti-constitutional pensioners, he says there's room for party employment, and there's no room for young people looking for work. I ask you all together, very carefully, to take care of every word and that you, Vice President, do not let such a thing be heard from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27938	counterpart Vidinovic, who is telling the truth in the state, assess the courts, and in the citizens' elections, I don't know that either. So it will likely be from what you say and what counterpart Vukojičić says, which also advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27939	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. - a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I didn't say a word in a single word that wasn't true. I mean, I told the whole truth. Thanks to those who were in power before us and those who ruled in 2005, they passed a family law without bringing more than 40 sublegal acts to the law. Also, I would like to say that it is the first time that a legislative legal framework is passed. Those who impute me that it is not true, all the lawyers well know that the law is the highest act, that there are also sublegal acts. They also know well that the protocol of conduct does not have a binding force, such as the law and the sublegal acts that come out of the law. It is true that the Government of Aleksandra Vukic first proposed to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence in 2016. That's true. The law began to apply on 1 July 2017 and it also has a preventive and repressive character. It's true and those victims of domestic violence know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27940	Thank you. Comrade Sarovic, on what basis are you answering? Do you want the word after the amendment? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and Mr. Arsic, I address you first and foremost as the chairman, because I consider you to be with multiple members of 27. The Rules of Procedure have helped the session to be like this now and to have the atmosphere as it is, and in my opinion, it's inappropriate. You at first have to interrupt some speakers when they bring up things that are obviously offensive and that are incorrect. You, above all, have allowed MPs of the Democratic Party to say that the leadership of the Republic of Serbia from the 1990s is wrong about the wars. No one in their right mind or mind could do such a thing, accuse their people of causing war and then the leadership of the Republic of Serbia of the victims of that war. These same people are later bothered when they are spared responsibility for those people who died during their regime. You have two options. One is either to respect the Rules of Procedure, and the other is to continue as you have done so far. You in the answers you give are false. You said this morning that I walked into the O.R. later. Look at the footage, while the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Seselj, was asking questions, I sat behind it. You've told a lie. Instead of dealing with political assessments and your own thoughts that no one cares about, you are obliged to give an explanation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to call on a certain member and say why someone is right or wrong. As long as you don't do it, you'll have this kind of atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27942	Comrade Sarovic, I respect you as an MP, but what you say is that advertising is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that's what you do in your discussions, too, leads me to it. (I Nemanja Sarovic: I explained what you did and what led to it. As I have listened patiently to you for two minutes, so you will now listen to me. I have not offended your thoughts, although I am least interested in what you think, but I answer to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and respect the function you have. Therefore, let me conduct the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: A Rules of Procedure! ) The People's MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you are, colleague Rakonjac. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) Since I see that they continue to appear in the Rules of Procedure, I determine, in accordance with Article 112, a one-minute break. [[after breaks]] Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Here you go, colleague Laketić. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Abuse of Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27944	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, namely, Article 3. The law on the budgetary system on which I tabled the amendment regulates the integrity of the budget system also provides the integrity of the budget system to a common legal basis, a single budget classification, the use of a single budget documentation to draft budgets, but also what is very important, to uniform criteria for budgetary control and audit. Why does it matter? Well, because, for example, In the municipality of Prokuplje, we see that this budget control and audit has not done its job. In fact, there was absolutely no control over the period of government of the yellow team, there was no budgetary control in the municipality of Prokuplje, because it was, so that we could justify one fact that in 2012 with the takeover of power, the public company Vodovod had a debt of 50 million dinars based on unpaid taxes and contributions for workers. How is that even possible? How is it possible that when the former was in power, the state tolerated the non-payment of contributions for workers? How is it possible that contributions and contributions have accumulated in such a amount of 50 million? That means they haven't been paid in years. That, respected citizens, is a lot of questions that you have answered in the last elections, and the answer is that they have been wiped out practically from the political scene by those who have done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27945	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27946	Mr. Vice President, it's me. That's what I'm talking to you about because you're chairing in accordance with Article 32. Rules of Procedure and Rule 27, you have violated it, I wish it were here at your place at this time Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, because she did not properly assess it, in accordance with Article 32, your intellectual and all other opportunities to chair the National Assembly in her absence. He should have chosen, since Mr Marinkovic was not there before, Mrs Radet, who was the only vice president in the room to replace her absence, because you do not understand the course of the session and understand absolutely nothing about the work of parliament, although thanks to the SRS, which you later issued by stealing the mandate, you first entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You had someone to learn from. You had the opportunity to educate yourself, you had the opportunity to, in addition to later obtaining a calling, and the SRS never honored that you had this calling with which you became a National MP. So, you've had your options, but obviously the ones you came to and whose help you entered that function doesn't ask of you. Because you're not interested in anything. You are not interested in the history of political life in Serbia, or what is the most legislative body, or what is the highest degree of democracy. Then you, a Veroljub Arsic, dare to tell the MPs who are seriously preparing for this session, who at any moment not only know this Rules of Procedure, who is nakarad, but know that they are interpreting it during the session itself, that they do not know anything, that someone must listen to you. Well, he doesn't have to listen to you. And it's the right of MPs and it's always been so throughout history that they turn around and leave the hall. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27947	I thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: So, you injured Article 27, you injured Article 32 and Article 112) My colleague Jovanovic, I respect you and your function as MP. You may be right when it comes to colleague Maja Gojkovic, but I am also sure that former Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and how she was right that based on your intellectual abilities she did not allow you to hold any session. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: First of all, that is not true. It's a business thing. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27948	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, my amendment reads: "Planning, preparing, adopting and implementing the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia". The amendment aims to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia through a legal solution. The government wants the education to create young people, to be team players, to be able to think, to make the right decisions, to be competitive and curent on the market, to get hired and to fill the budget, not as a twin, Djilas and Sapic, who emptied the budget and brought the city of Belgrade to bankruptcy. In 2013 and 2014, the budget was mutilated by a billion and 200m euros, only the public debt was 400m, and as a Kraut, they reiterate that their debt is 400m. That's not true, a billion and 200. There were plus unpaid maternity salaries, unpaid for a sensitive population, one-time assistance, one-off shame, plus interest, one billion and 200, each child was charged 600 euros each. And we -- we pay back the debt, we don't have any debts, and we pay back the debt of 500m euros. Bravo! We had unemployment 27%, now it's 11%. Now we've hired 66,000 people in town. That's how it works. This is SNS's responsible policy. Good for the government, of course. It's not hard to be nice, culture is a way of life. I'll never tell anyone he's lying, he's a thief, but the facts are different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27949	The People's MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27950	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget in the function of economic development. I believe, and my colleague Blaža Knezevic mentioned, that the bypass around Belgrade is an exceptional infrastructure project. As well as a bypass around Belgrade, for example, a railway bypass around Nis, which was planned for 2019, is also an important project that will certainly improve economic growth. However, the yellow company has patented another bypass that has functioned for years, which is a tour around the tender. Public procurement control at the Ministry of Defence showed that the ministry's supply administration carried out procurements and signed contracts with health institutions and pharmacies throughout Serbia, regardless of the military insurance provider's special fund that had the legal personality. The Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance has not been authorised by the Ministry of Defence to carry out public procurement on his behalf. How is this prescribed by the Public Procurement Act? So, the Ministry's authority, Mr. Sutanovac and the team, were illegally and on their own centralized the purchases, while the drug suppliers' invoices were delivered to pay for the fund. Dear gentlemen, a bypass around Belgrade will lead to traffic rerouting and traffic releases in Belgrade. The circulation around the tender will lead to money rerouting and there has been a shift of our people's money to nearby pastures and vineyards, and in order to relieve the heads of the yellow company for five generations in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27951	National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: A Rules of Procedure! Rules of Procedure! The Faith of Radeta: What kind of behavior is this? It's the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27952	This set of amendments relating to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, and above all to these amendments, we essentially want to continue what is called the monitoring of European trends. The European Union is not only IPAR funds, the EU is not just donations and all we get from the EU, the EU is also rules that you need to respect. These rules apply to the rules in the area of finance. With these amendments to the law, we share and invest financial resources coming from the EU, both in local administrations' budgets and in the province's budgets. This amendment refers specifically to this, as well as to the Republic budget. We're simply making a complete transformation and division that we know exactly about the sources of income why these funds are being spent. This will allow us to better control the implementation of macroeconomic parameters, and when we respect European rules, we also respect key macroeconomic rules regarding the mastic, which speak of fiscal discipline, i.e. deficit and degree of duty. The state of Serbia has come into a situation today so it can say thanks to this government, this parliament and the Prime Minister to respect standards in the area of deficits. If a deficit that allows one budget to function successfully at 0.9%, and Serbia is now at 0.6% of the deficit, it certainly says that Serbia meets all domestic and international accounting standards in its fiscal consolidation. A 0.6% deficit means that Serbia has a chance to achieve an even better financial result in the coming years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27953	National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27954	Thank you, Chairman. Well, certainly the reason for the amendment as so far to strengthen the fight against corruption and crime in terms of planning, adoption and implementation of the budget. These corrupt actions need to be eradicated. One example of how much this could cost one region or one country, I'll just tell you in 2008, AP Vojvodina enters with 553,000 employees, and in 2012, it comes out with 44,000 employees, 86,000 jobs less, almost no larger centre in Subotica, Sombora, Kickinda, Novi Sad, Subotica that has no monument to this collapse and criminal policy in the form of a failed drive, production hall, etc. What's it look like today? I will point to the case in Subotica in June 2016, the mayor of Subotica, Bogdan Laban, takes over the management of the city with 16 million dinars in the budget of 5.8 billion that are foreseen by the budget of the city of Subotica. Of course, accumulated debts, such as in the case of some municipalities in the south beneath Belgrade, regardless of all these debts are served within the scheduled time-limit without delay one day. It comes in June of this year and Ametek company in co-operation with the President of the Republic, we manage to open the plant, open the Italian company Kaminada, which employs 120 people in a free zone that otherwise employs 6,000 people now and in negotiations with the Italian company Mondo Plas, which will employ some hundreds of people in the town of Subotici in the coming period. We are aware that just now, subotica and its Subotics, and their status becomes subject to the interest of both the president of the state and the Prime Minister, but the Mayor of Subotica and in one new way we solve the problems we face and stop the curves, but corruption in the budget, both the city and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27955	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Third Amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27956	I will continue to talk about an amendment concerning resolving the problem of Serbs in the region, refugees and exiled persons. It is well known that in the 1990s half a million Serbs were expelled from Croatia and half a million Serbs from the Federation of BiH. Unfortunately, many problems remain unresolved. I will mention only some of these problems still do not restore 40,000 kidnapped tenants' rights in Croatia. About 50,000 pensioners can't get their pensions back. We have a classic systematic abduction of agricultural and forest land, exiled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH. As far as Croatia has been concerned since 1997, since the adoption of the Law on Property, Croatia has registered as a state as the owner of 800,000 catastrian plots of agricultural and forest land. Croatia is using the fact that a large number of Serbs in Kordun, Banja and Lica, northern Dalmatia, western Slavonia, were not followed by a cadastre from the land book. So, people were owners of the cataster, but the land books said it was either a common folk property, or a cooperative property, or the owners were led by their grandfathers, great grandfathers, Chukunds, etc. Croatia sent letters to the destroyed houses of the expelled Serbs and to their abducted houses to come to court to store a cadastre from the country's book of the people, people were scattered around the world, living in Serbia, Serbia, America, Australia, the European countries, they could not come. Croatia cynicalally wrote off Serbs as owners. It is absolutely unacceptable and another EU appeal to send a message to Croatia to respect human rights, hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27957	The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27958	I thank the chairman. I have proposed an amendment to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, which reads – After point 5a, point 5b is added – Planning, preparation, adoption, implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is implemented to the greatest extent possible to improve balanced development in the Republic of Serbia. As for pre-accession funds that I've been talking about for a little while, pre-accession funds open up the possibility of us improving our country's infrastructure, investing evenly in all parts of the country, building a sewerage network, working on the opening of wastewater processing plants, solving our own water management system and waste management. The Environment Ministry's budget also set a sum of 100 million dinars to help local self-government develop project documentation and projects themselves to improve the environment. The larger funds are also defined in the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia, close to three billion dinars, as well as the budget fund for water amounting to three billion 304 million 493 thousand dinars. The objective of the amendment is to further strengthen and support and encourage even regional development in the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution. Don't worry, in the day of the vote, we'll all be here and we'll vote or we'll make a statement about each amendment in person, and as far as the opposition is concerned, it will not traditionally be entitled to appear at the vote. Traditionally they will submit several hundred amendments and will not traditionally vote for their own amendments. It just shows how much they believe in what they are doing and how sincere they are in wanting to improve the bill's proposals and improve the quality of citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27959	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27960	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, Article 3 is added to the view that point 5a is added to point 5b, and to say briefly, I have submitted this amendment because of the additional incentive and strengthening of the health system of the Republic of Serbia, namely, we have witnessed that the health system of the Republic of Serbia is poor by 2012, primarily by the G17+ staff, as they were then called to the point that it was on the lowest branches. This government headed by Mr. Vucic as Prime Minister, now the President of the Republic, managed to stop the health system from falling apart and to stop the health system... . (The People's MPs from the SRS receive at the same time. Please be quiet, if any of your colleagues can. Guys, how about quiet? So I've filed this amendment in order to strengthen. I have to point out that these G17+ frames couldn't even work in the citizens' interest, because they cared about some of their goals, so they did some blurry work. Then, a colleague robbed the state and the municipality of Trstenik, but I must stress that this same colleague was receiving more pay. This is where some MPs of the ruling coalition are called to receive more salaries, which is not true, of course, and this same colleague, monthly at the Kruševac Masevica factory – 40,258, JP “National Park Kopalnik” – 17,500, Directorate for Planning and Construction of the municipality of Trstenik – 72,000. Please, and otherwise, as a member of the Management Board of the First Five-year-olds compensation and not only him, but father-in-law and mother-in-law, and I don't know who else, therefore, the state couldn't develop because of these. Well, that's what citizens should be responding to, and that's why the SNS is giving support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27961	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27962	Again, the theme of Serbia's development, ladies and gentlemen, and I fully agree when we talk about the development with the evaluations made by colleagues. Each end of our beautiful country is equally important and we should do our utmost to ensure that this development is present everywhere and are important and those municipalities where local elections are planned at the end of this year and it is totally unacceptable to send a message from those congested representatives of the former regime, who are unable to provide any political support for their lists, that only because of this is why these municipalities and people living in them are not important. This, of course, does not stand and cannot be compared to the importance of people in other parts of the state, namely people living in Belgrade, only because these choices are more important to someone. But when we talk about the city of Belgrade, just in terms of development, it is important not only what is happening now, all the great projects we are talking about these days, hundreds of kilometers of sewerage, waterway, roads, different categories, significant projects such as the project of apartments with popular prices of squares, such as the project "Belgrade on Water". It is also important that what will happen in the city of Belgrade in the immediate future, such as the project of the new Sava Bridge, which will represent a direct ticket to open new projects, just on the topic of infrastructure, for example, a tunnel that should connect Sava and Danube. On all these good things, the Belgraders will be able to make a direct statement, e.g. Through the programme "to be done and built according to yours", which also drives the city of Belgrade, the possibility of using a modern application, the very residents of our capital pleading on the subject that projects see as the most important for their city, which is to which they give the most support, which was, of course, totally unimaginable at the time of the yellow tycoon Dragan Djilas, his violent Alexander Sapic, and their capo, that was, Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27963	National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I don't want a word. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27964	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, ministry representatives, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as when it comes to the amendment, about the amendments so far, and this amendment aims to encourage and support Serbia's modernisation. I will read, for the sake of Serbian citizens, how it reads: "Planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to be in the function of modernising the Republic of Serbia". Of course, here I mean primarily the modernisation of public administration in Serbia, and I think that modernising public administration will change the way public services are provided, while bringing public spending into real and sustainable budgetary frameworks. I will remind, although it has been said several times so far that one of the priorities of Serbia's public administration is to grow from one regulator to what we call the true service of citizens, as it should be and that is in the right sense of that word, therefore, which will be in the function of creating and encouraging economic growth and social development. So the modernisation of public administration should be based on three elements. It's efficiency, rationality, economic viability. If this is based on public administration, it will also be effective. Of course, this should in no way diminish the necessity for the public administration to meet the needs of our citizens at the same time. We have a positive example of this, it's the local self-government of the city of Belgrade. As counterpart Orlic recently cited several important elements that local self-government in Belgrade has functioned so far, I would only rely on it and say that at this point more than 1,000 construction sites in Belgrade are active. The long city of Belgrade, completed Pupinov Bridge, 20,000 new jobs, 280km of waterway, 550km of streets and roads, four new homes of health, 260km of heat pipelines. Those are the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27965	In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27966	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanicm Serb Slav Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski, Stefana Miladanovic. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27967	Thank you. Dear Presidents, distinguished members of the government, the amendment we have submitted is about harmonising the national policy of the Republic of Serbia with the 2030 Agenda. One of the objectives of the 2030 Agenda is to reduce inequalities within and among countries. I'm talking about objective 10 of the 2030 Agenda. The 2018 budget allows for the realisation of this objective, as the amount of 128.3 billion planned for investments is evenly distributed to the territory of the whole country. Sustainable development is possible only with the even development of the entire country, and SNS operates in that direction. The 2018 budget is clear evidence that the government of the Republic of Serbia is taking care of the country's even development. As someone who comes from southern Serbia, I must say that the funds planned for the 2018 budget will allow for the resuscitation of southern Serbia. First of all, the completion of the construction of Corridor 10 is certainly the most significant capital project that will allow the development of the South, because the fact that what share of the highway is also coming from investors. Capital investments planned for the city of Leskovac for 2018 will certainly allow the town of Leskovac to develop in step with other cities in Serbia. Finally, the objective of this amendment is that all the laws proposed by the government and passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are heading towards the adoption of a budget that will allow for the country's sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27968	The Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were together Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojić, LJiljana Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojic, Nikola Savivić, Filip Stojanović and Marina Ristić together and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and National MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27969	Article 4 The draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act refers to Article 25 of the existing law, and you, in these amendments, provided for EU financial assistance as the public income of local self-government. The question that is logically being asked is why was it not before, and did you have until this proposal, or until the day when this law will be adopted, EU financial assistance? If so, where was she recorded, especially in what way was she spent? We have heard here today a variety of praises from the representatives of the authorities in relation to this proposal, namely the functioning of the government and of the grace and of all those roses that flourish in local self-government. Of course, only in the eyes of those who said that. We are also this Bill on the Budgetary System, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Law, we have about, I don't know, 320 or how many amendments, or about 300 amendments of the Members of Government. So there's no confusion again, like yesterday that they tried to misread us, we don't mind making amendments, but not amendments for amendments, but amendments that really change something. We all know, it is clear to the general public in Serbia that the MPs have submitted this large number of amendments just to prevent, in fact, the debate on amendments that the MPs have tabled in the proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's interesting what all of these really literary works that have been presented as amendments, among other things, could be heard. I said yesterday, I repeat today, this is not the text of the amendment. What's presented, as an amendment, could be part of some strategy, some plan, some program, something that is descriptively represented, and it can't be a legal norm. What were we able to hear today? One MP said he submitted the amendment to improve the conditions of the lives of refugees and displaced persons. So it has nothing to do with that amendment and that member of the law with the displaced and the evasive faces, absolutely nothing. But while he was talking about it, I'd like that fellow MP to tell us how, say, escaped and exiled persons are shared apartments in a settlement in Chačka? It's about the funds that were received from some donation. So it has a lot to do with this amendment of ours. How are these apartments divided? How many people they had to give to someone and to whom they had to give money to get these apartments and why out of all the apartments that got evicted faces, why only in this settlement in Chačka can't those apartments be redeemed. Of course, we have no answer to that particular question. There was talk here about the even development of Serbia. We mainly listened to representatives, or MPs from different municipalities across Serbia, each of whom talked about their municipality, which, of course, was no mistake, but they mostly said – will be done, will be built, will be reconstructed. There was little that was said – it was done, reconstructed, etc. We have really the opposite of what the MPs say, we have a number of examples that we learn from the field and the evidence that we get from the field, which are totally the opposite of what we hear from the representatives of the government. We have, for example, an example that the Health House in Kursumlia bought out of a donation, bought a sanitary vehicle. No objection. But here's a social network of photos of the director of the health home in that sanity vehicle transporting furniture to his apartment, to his house. Yes, Minister Prince, believe me, check it out. You know I'd never say anything that wasn't true. Furthermore, when you talk about these donations related to this Article 25, change through this Article 4. The draft law, we have never received accurate information on this, let's say, how exactly the euro was spent on the funds that we received during those tragic floods from the EU or individual EU countries. We had this, we were listening to some conferences, we were reading everything in general, that house was being photographed there, that house was being photographed, but we never got an exact calculation of it. Is that, say, why so far in this law not as public funds from EU funds? Also, we have heard something very interesting here, and you are constantly talking about the even development of the Serbian state, which, if that were the case, you would have our support, because we think that in all of Serbia, all of Serbia should develop equally. We think that everyone in Serbia deserves the conditions of a modern man, the conditions that are such that anyone who finishes, for example, a university in Belgrade, in Novi Sad or somewhere, wishes to return to his hometown, unfortunately, that is not so. You have continued, or taken over from those before you, I mean that Tadic regime, let's say, when they taught the courts in small places, you continued, and still in many small places there are no courts, you close schools, etc. So you're not creating conditions for this even development. Now, since those 380-euro flats per square metre are finished, we don't know exactly where the models are now, the story is about apartments that will be built at 550 dinars per square metre. (Dusan Vujovic: Euro. ) Yes, Minister Vujović. And today here, I don't know if you've heard that it's going to be 550 euros per square metre, but you haven't heard today from a fellow MP from the government, who said it's not true that the apartments will be 550 euros per square metre, it's going to be an average. So again, you are making a difference between Surdulica, Belgrade, Somboro, Valjev, Kosovo Mitrovica, not to list all the cities in Serbia. So it's not true what you're saying. You are not creating this law, or any law, a balanced development of the Republic of Serbia. It is something that is smooth, which is seen as the centre of Belgrade, not these surrounding municipalities, which are Belgrade's municipalities, but it is the centre of Belgrade, the centre of Novi Sad. The rest is nowhere and nothing, gentlemen, is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27970	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27971	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about the European Union's funds and local self-government. I hope they break up with the practice of Goran Jesic, heineken, etc., to spend more than they have collected. The custom was not to redistribute excess by local self-government, but to redistribute the lack. They did not live on the collected and earned, but on the duty. That practice needs to be broken up. The debt of the Indji municipality is 2,037 million, or 2,037 billion. The debt of Smederjevska Palanka is between three and four billion. And these people's happy ones, who will have to pay back their debts, are behind them the works and the misdemeanors that future generations in these local self-governments will pay. Chief Heineken was selling a tank for four thousand dollars. And this one from Smederevska Palanka Heineken, he drank beer for four thousand dollars for the evening, and the boss sold him a tank, and he drank it for one night. I hope that boss gets interrupted. As in Tristenik, where the interview for "Time" had to be paid. So, the man signs that he's going to give an interview, the municipality pays his press release and then they call it independent journalism. Now, that's how the Miki tractor of the Wolf descendent, so they spent money in local self-government, and heineken or heinetenkic even sold thermal water, which was not the authority of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27972	Minister Dusan Vujovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27973	As far as the substance of this amendment is concerned, we have already explained in an explanation of the law that the introduction of this supplementary explanation, i.e. the breakdown of an explanation in a member relating to the Republic and the addition of an explanation – EU financial assistance at the level of units of local self-government and the level of the AP Vojvodina, is only allowing the possibility to record and monitor this in one place in planning the implementation of the budget, in order to facilitate the respect of commitments undertaken under Chapter 32 – the management of public resources. This is otherwise, so far, both at the level of the Republic, and at the level of the APV and at the level of the locale was recorded as a source of 56, but with decentralised IPA programs, the need to record it more precisely appeared. So it's been recorded before, but to be recorded more precisely both at the APV level and at the level of units of local self-government. Otherwise, the reporting exists, it is regularly and carried out by the competent authorities through which the identification and arrangement of certain forms of assistance, donations and so forth has taken place. The competent authorities shall seek a report on the dedicated use of funds and the objectives achieved. Therefore, your concern is not, I think, justified. I don't know exactly how the reports can be delivered to you, but these reports exist, by units, by donors and by projects. What is important to me, this is that this increases the transparency of spending and enables unique and simplified reporting in certain aspects, which is very important. It creates the possibility that all donors, creditors and others are convinced that we respect the latest standards, to know exactly where the sources of funds are planned, how they are spent, what results are achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27974	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentarians Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27975	Thank you. We've heard everything here and everything today. I am sorry that so many amendments have not been submitted by MPs, because we have that situation – for the first time with Father for the morning. So, my first amendment to life, I expect each of you to describe it one day, so that it can enter the anals. As far as these funds related to this member of the law are concerned, you just said, Mr. Minister, that the possibility of being registered in one place is allowed. But so far, I really didn't realize how it all worked out, because we've just listened to praises, let's say, from the infrastructure area, where big loans are being taken, where we have funds that I don't know how they've spent, say, traffic infrastructure, Corridor 10, Corridor 11, railways, and where we have again defined 5.2-5.3 billion euros in resources in this new budget, as if we've never taken credit at all. So it's not like you know everything. We have some stories about Corridor 11, that the Ub-Lajkovac section is the fault of the previous minister, we have some lawsuits that are, I guess, just coalition agreements, which we don't know how they work and whether they're true at all, but actually, we think the funds are being spent. Because, these corridors, they've broken all the deadlines for realisation, whether it's Corridor 10, the Gredel ravine, that's been going on for five years, because it's demanding, and that's why they need more resources. That can't be right. Here, the Montenegrins built the biggest bridge in Europe through the Morache Canyon in just two years. Let's be realistic. Corridor 11 - disaster. So there's nothing done but that unfortunate part of LJig-Pray.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27976	Thank you very much. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27977	Thank you. Dear President, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment for the following reasons. The negotiations on Serbia's EU accession largely depend on Chapter 23, which covers judicial reform. The importance of independence and effective judiciary has been recognised in the EU, and a series of recommendations have been defined to meet high standards of the judiciary. In addition to meeting the political criteria, on the one hand, to facilitate EU negotiations and easier entry, on the other hand, it is very important to eliminate influences, external influences on the judiciary, organise training and the purpose of appropriate financial resources. The Action Plan for Chapter 23 implies implementing measures that are the priority of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but require certain financial resources precisely for implementing reforms in the area of justice. For this reason, a legal solution is needed to further encourage the development of the judicial system. In this way, Serbia will be able to close Chapter 23 successfully, to get closer to joining the EU, but also to follow a step with countries that are already members of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27978	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27979	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is also about investment. I must draw attention to an important item of the budget relating to the defined budget funds for the completion of the construction of the Iron Bridge in Novi Sad of 790 million dinars. The Gjeljev Bridge is extremely important for Novi Sad and for all Serbia, as part of Corridor 10 is one of the main traffic corridors in this part of Europe and is part of Serbia's new transport policy as part of Serbia's EU accession process. Also, this bridge is part of a project to modernise the Belgrade railway – Budapest, as well as the world's most important global project "One Belt - One Way", which is part of Serbia and within which we are working with our important strategic partner, the People's Republic of China. Unfortunately, the construction of this bridge has been followed by an evil fate since the beginning, as one of the parties was the government of the AP Vojvodina, headed by a "yellow company" until 2016. While the SNS did not take over the province's power, the project was compromised, as the "yellow company" constantly obstructed this project and delayed payments to the contractor. According to the data we have, they were late on payments to the contractor for a total of 558 days, thus jeopardising this project and causing the contractor to get into financial problems and construction was delayed. Thank God so in 2015, the town of Novi Sad took over most of the commitments and Mayor Milos Vucevic and the minister of construction, Mrs Mihajlovic, signed the contract annex after which the works were intensified. The ports are now connected and with these 790 million dinars, I'm sure next year we'll finish that bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27980	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27981	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, I will continue to talk about the particularly sensitive groups of our citizens, and this time, the sick. I must stress that the first time the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, established a budget fund for the treatment of disease, condition or injury that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia, was the first time. The Fund started working on 8 September 2014. Otherwise, the fund is an indirect beneficiary of the budget under the heading of the Ministry of Health. I must stress that in the period from November 2014 to October 2017, 80 treatment and control visits to foreign health institutions for 68 patients were provided from the budget fund. Also, it was ensured that 152 samples were sent for genetic or metabolic testing to foreign laboratories, the arrival of external medical experts for 17 patients. The funds spent during 2017 amount to 135,810.070 dinars. How much DS cared about children and institutions in which they are being treated may be best spoken right now by the reconstruction of the University Children's Clinic in Tirshovo, where the reconstruction takes place after more than three decades, and we know that the University Children's Clinic is one of the most famous in this part of Europe. Also, I have to stress another very important fact, which concerns the adoption of the Law on the Prevention and diagnosal of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases. I must stress that this law was adopted in the National Assembly on 23 January 2015. All SNS MPs and its coalition partners voted for him, and nine DS MPs, as well as independent MP Zoran Zivkovic, did not vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27982	The People's MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to the 4th Amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th amendment was submitted by Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27983	Thank you. Honored Presidents, Honored Ministers, Honored fellow Members of the People, Article 4. The law on the budgetary system on which I tabled the amendment has just regulated the establishment of total fiscal sustainability and control. In particular, this article regulates the comprehensive control of the total appropriations, which, while establishing the limits on expenditures and expenditures guaranteed by the law, both at the total level and at the level of the beneficiaries of the funds, particularly at the level of local self-government. However, the control of expenditure at the level of local self-government was absolutely of no importance during the period of government of the former regime. In fact, in time, the former government with its fins came up with the idea that a pedestrian zone was created in the municipality of Prokuplje, and it would not be strange if the work on the pedestrian zone had not been paid 365 million dinars, paid naturally from loans that the citizens of Prokuplja were to pay by 2026. Also, it's weird because the paperwork on doing these works is gone. It's strange that the works were performed by a private company that was formed just before it was given a job and shut down right after the job was finished. And it's strange, too, that even a walking zone that's about 500 meters long cost incredible 365 million dinars, you'll agree. It is this amendment that I believe that the state will establish the desired financial control of the budget system not only at the republic, but also at the local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27984	Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27985	Dear Presidents, distinguished members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, my amendment reads as follows: planning, preparation, adoption, implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia. The amendment aims to strengthen the legal solution, improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia. Since Amendment 4 applies to local self-government, and I come from the Voždovac municipality, I will tell you what has been done today in the Voždovac municipality since 2010. In this municipality, the Serbian Progressive Party recognised the importance of education as a priority, so it built or built two new schools, then, connected all schools, made video surveillance in all schools and linked them to the 12th police station. For a child to be educated first of all, he needs to be in a school that's safe. The Vozdovac municipality was full of drugs. Now it's gone. The classrooms are clean. We've renovated all the classrooms, toilets. They laughed here when we talked about toilets. Of course, toilets. We've made eight physical halls. We've renovated the roofs. When we arrived in 2010 we found a cultural-sports center. He was sneezing his roof. In the buffet – exclusive perfumes and drinks we've never heard of, probably, and many, many other bahanals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27986	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Krsta Janjusevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27987	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the function of economic development, we need to talk about some bad examples from the past so they never do it again. The previous government in Belgrade has done debt and damage, more specifically from 280m euros and left it to the citizens of Belgrade, by allowing investors not to pay compensation for regulating city building land from 2004 to 2011. The city authorities did not seek effective means of security in the event of non-payment of those fees. The SNS authorities launched this problem, cut off this criminal practice, and more effective security funds, bank guarantees and mortgages were introduced. No more investors owe money to compensate for the city's construction land. All of this cost us 150 kindergartens or 1,500 buses or a million pensions. As part of that project of tours around the Belgrade tender, and related to the reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar, out of three bidders was selected a firm that offered and cost sixm euros more than the second-placed one. So, what runs on this project bypasses around the tender. I'm surprised the "yellow duck" never directed its beak in these directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27988	Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27989	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this is the last, in fact, third amendment, i.e. the third amendment concerning the functioning of the fiscal system and including clear distinction and division between the obligations that exist between the transfers and what is EU financial assistance. In Article 25. The law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia, after Article 5, introduces a clear definition that local administrations must include this category as a special category. Local administrations under the Law on the Budgetary System and fiscal order are part of the Republic of Serbia. When you talk about local administrations, regional development, then we need to know that it's a general state that works. You see the clear responsibility of the Republic administration and the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the municipalities. How do you see that? First of all, you see real indicators that aren't just about words, they're about separations. If, in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, you have a growth of 8.3% in the economic classification of transfers to other levels of government, which is the result of the functioning of the fiscal order of the Serbian Government, but which means that in the following year, we transfer 10% more funds to local administrations. This certainly speaks of one responsible and functioning government based on results. Also, income taxes that are originally the primary income of local administrations are growing, and all of this is best seen on the deficit, i.e. the surplus we have on the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. When we have a surplus at the level of the republic, a republican budget of 0.6%, and at the level of the general government in which local administrations are involved, 0.7%, then it speaks of the general functioning of the fiscal order and macroeconomic stability.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27990	The 4th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. Do you want to explain the amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27991	Thank you, Mr. President, Mrs. Gojkovic. And this amendment is in the role of a better quality defence system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolute defence minister for the efforts they have made so far to have one of the more efficient, better-sentified, modern Serbian Army, ready to defend the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Serbia. But what I also want to point out and rely on the presentation of my distinguished colleague, Miodrag Linta, is that we finally have an army that is ready and able not to allow Serbs anywhere in the region to be repeated criminal operations, such as "Blash" and "Storm". So that we have an army ready to defend the borders of the Republic of Serbia, but to ensure that Serbs living in neighbouring countries do not get what happened to them during the 1990s. I am convinced that by using the government of the Republic of Serbia in a rational way, the budgetary resources will create additional space to equip the Serbian Army in 2018 with quality weapons and that we will have the kind of army we had at the beginning of the 20th century, an army that freed the unfreed Serbian landscapes and that we will finally have an army that we will be able to be proud of, as we are proud today. I hope and am convinced, and while the SNS is in power, that we will no longer have as defence minister the people who destroyed our tanks, who destroyed our artillery tools, who destroyed our missile systems, which made them rich, and the army was poor and there was no room for solving existential issues and soldiers and officers and members of the MUP and the relevant security services.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27992	The 4th Amendment was filed by Miodrag Lint. Do you want to explain? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Do you want to explain? Yeah. George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27993	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the objective of the amendment is to further encourage poverty reduction in the area of the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution. As I said by fighting poverty in the way it is led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are satisfied, but since Article 4 as well as the previous members to whom we have proposed, refers to local self-government, and where we have the example that by 2016, not only was it not good, but it was a disaster, as it was with the mayor of Smederjevska Palanka, who in poverty for hundreds of millions of dinars of unpaid salaries drove away a bunch of workers, so we had the same thing with the yellow company in Vojvodina. In fact, the funds that were intended for subsidies were used by the alleged introduction of some new technologies, so some brokerage house, Alexander, received huge funds for the introduction of technology that we had never seen had been introduced, but therefore it returned the subsidy on several occasions and in various ways that were completely, not acceptable, but abnormal. What's unusual is that they returned through the delivery of antifreeze to agricultural, machine and technical schools. Some 7500 liters of antifreeze, then 10,000 means of polishing and protecting tires with the same schools. If the tires were polished with 10,000 liters, it's really not clear to anyone. Probably this antifreeze that they spilled in Vienna would never have caught on the Danube. Which means this only served to launder money. The yellow company and itsOUR in Vojvodina did not do so little, but they expanded it, so the theatres, museums, galleries, and only they were delivered about tens of thousands of gallons, which is antifreeze, which is the liquid for washing glass. Where it all ended, we can only guess, and if they washed the windows, I don't believe, but I believe that this is how they washed the millions that ended up in their pockets. For that very reason, an amendment like this, so that no one will ever think of it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27994	The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment concerns improving the efficiency of financial institutions in the Republic of Serbia. Usually Serbian citizens, when someone says financial institutions think they're just banks. It is not just banks, it is also pension funds, health care funds, the Deposit Insurance Agency, and it is necessary for all of this to function to the best extent possible because of the predictability of the economic environment and the environment in the Republic of Serbia. However, unlike us, there were previously certain financial institutions that some considered their private financial institutions even though they were state-owned. So, let's say, we had two banks that were in state property. One was called Agrobanka, the other was called the "Development Bank" of Vojvodina. It has been found that the damage from non-payment claims is about 600m euros, so I would like to ask all the competent ministers – how many pensions can be paid for 600m euros? How many kilometers of highway can you make for 600 million euros? How many kilometers of railway can be built or reconstructed for 600m euros, which they stole by 2012 and the "yellow company"? How many preschool institutions can be made for 600m euros? And another question -- if those 600m euros were not stolen, would the Government of Aleksandar Vukic 2014 have had to apply fiscal consolidation measures, i.e. that one part of the pensioner has reduced pensions, what are we talking about today?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27996	Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27997	Thank you, Your Honor. As my esteemed counterpart Martinovic said that the strengthened Serbian Army will contribute to the security of our citizens, both in Serbia and in the region, and our citizens and our countrymen, so certainly equipped Serbian police will contribute to the crime and corruption that existed until 2012 and 2016 in Serbia, especially in its north in the northern province of Vojvodina, never again as it has been before. We would not have been able, if we hadn't planned the budget well and opposed its criminal spending, that during the past period, the Ministry of Interior, headed by Minister Stefanovic, would have obtained 21,000 sets of uniforms for Serbian police officers, 1,200 uniforms for the gendarmes, to modernize 26 combat vehicles, to acquire more than 1,500 vehicles for the needs of Serbian police. What it looked like earlier when Vojvodina was run by DS Bojan Pajtic, somehow all of them at 4,000 euros or dollars, for 4,000 were selling tanks from the military, for 4,000 were drinking in cafes in Smederev, and 4,000 euros were paid for the interview by Bojan Pajtic in the Sunday list on 13 March 2014. Whether it's crime and corruption, let's not judge me, they usually say it's a flat-rate assessment of SNS MPs, and that's not my assessment. This is the Council's assessment of the fight against corruption. The Council for the fight against corruption consistently says that this example, I quote, is a typical example of the abuse of the Budgetary System Act, because it is about paying for the personal promotion of politicians in one public function. Now, about what it looks like today, and it seemed about in an earlier period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27998	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blaža the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u27999	Thank you, Chairman. In order to further develop infrastructure, Corridor 10 is one of the most important pan-European cars, a corridor that passes through Serbia and connects countries – Austria, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Greece. So this project makes the transport system of the Republic of Serbia compatible with the EU transport system, with a tendency to further modernise, so that the Republic of Serbia is ready to adhere to EU standards in the area of transport. Realisation of this important project will lead to a general acceleration of transit traffic, promotion of, of course, service levels, facilitating international trade flows and passenger transport. When the new highway is completed, it will have a positive impact on commercial and commercial activities in the region and will contribute to regional development. The total length of roads falling into Corridor 10, which passes through the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is 792km. The work on Corridor 10 is organized within five projects, and Horgos-Novi Sad 108 kilometers, the main intersection within the project is Belgrade, the intersection Bubanj stream-Croatia 121 kilometers, then the Belgrade-Bubanj stream-Niš 237km, the Nis-border with Macedonia 74km, Nis-Republic of Bulgaria 86.5km and the Belgrade bypass I was already talking about. A tour ring for the detour of transport traffic from the centre of Belgrade 47km. So much for not doing anything and only in Belgrade, as some colleagues have pointed out here. It's tragic what demagogue we're hearing today in the absence of arguments, and it's tragic that we're listening to it from those who, when they were in power, had only ideas, whatever they were, and who were mostly embarrassing. I'm sure those who systematically destroyed our country will never be able to do that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28000	Thank you, my fellow Prince. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28001	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The law on the budgetary system, which reads – planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, is implemented to the greatest extent possible to improve balanced regional development in the Republic of Serbia. When I talk about balanced regional development, I really need to mention the Ministry of Agriculture and the Law on Incentives in Rural Development, which for the first time recognized the importance of calamari production in the export sense. In Triestenik municipality, 70% of this production is concentrated. The adoption of the rules on incentives in Kalemar production, i.e. in the production of vine fruit material and certification, is extremely important for the residents of Tristenik municipality, especially because we had a huge understanding of Mr Nedimović and there is still room to identify some of the other categories that can be covered and recognised by this Regulation, as well as space to solve the problem of co-operatives. It is extremely important because 85% of these products are exported and this is the exceptional support of the Ministry of Agriculture for this export-oriented agricultural branch. I understand criticism coming from the opposition and the fear of repeating the disastrous results of the last elections, when he won two votes in Milutovac's re-election. So, both votes in Milutovac and no wonder they're now giving up elections in Kostolc, Negotin, because they haven't found those two votes, and two people who would support this list. I must remind the citizens of Serbia that they live in Kostolc, Negotin and Milutovac, and that they will be punished in the same way in every election.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28002	Thank you. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28003	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member and my amendment, refer to the planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and all for the strengthening of the health system of the Republic of Serbia. As I have explained more than once, we are witnessing that the health system has been so ruined that measures and measures were needed, and the reform laws that this government has passed, in order to stop the collapse and strengthen, because you know that for years it has not been invested and that the money has gone completely for other purposes, or those that are not presently in this room, have been filling their pockets, and have not taken care of the citizens. That is why we are here and the SNS, which is why we have growing and greater support from the citizens of Serbia, because citizens have seen that domestic and responsible policies are being conducted. I would point out that the Clinical Centre of Serbia, with 7,000 employees, is a healthcare provider in Serbia and that it provides and treats more than 90,000 patients annually and that more than 950,000 sick days are achieved, and we know that it has not been invested for years. That is why the government will reconstruct all clinical centres, as it has successfully done in the previous period, as the Clinical Centre in Serbia has renovated. I call on those who are not in the O.R. right now to do some work on some N1 television or some other TV, to invite citizens to a boycott of the election, because, as Turkish counterpart said, they have nothing to do with the public. The citizens became convinced of their policies by 2012 and saw what they had done. Apart from the fact that they filled their pockets, the others did nothing and devastated Serbia of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28004	Thank you, colleague Barisic. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28005	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So again we are dealing with the issue of development, which is really important and we certainly support even development. The government, also in the spirit of good continuity with governments personally headed by Aleksandar Vukic, is dealing with the issue in the right way. The development is, of course, possible, because today's overall economic activity is being conducted in our country in the right way, just as Mr. Ruff, who is head of the mission of the International Monetary Fund, and this good economic activity, but also a serious responsible relationship, when it comes to governance, actually gives room to invest not only in investment, but also to produce a good result. And one step at a time, and one step at a time. So when we have a good result, for example. pay increases, it's based on some real basis, it's no longer pre-election balloons and empty stories that result in trouble for someone who runs the country tomorrow. That these salaries are higher than in 2012, says official statistics, and this is noticed by the international public, and among other things by those who are reluctant to do so. It seems to me that former director of the yellow company Boris Tadic, visiting on TV "N1", also reluctantly admitted that the salaries were higher than during his vaccine. Otherwise, if you don't know what TV I mean, this American TV "N1", it's a small television that also has content and ratings that reminds a lot of the board's information program "Kurr", I think it's called "Kurr info". Whether he's there or not, in any case, he really had to admit it. When we talk about good results resulting from a responsible relationship, this certainly includes these results in the military industry. And it's really a good thing, here's the thing, with one commendable sentence on what Dragan Sutanovac used to do, it's a good thing that he realized he didn't deserve the "The Most High" award for his so-called. Supposed military reform in 2010, so he returned the prize. Not only did he not deserve it, he didn't deserve to be remembered by anyone for anything good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28006	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28007	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that the few opposition are not with us today anyway. The previous pay phone said they probably have better things to do, but here we are on Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. There is a proposal to add a new position, a position that reads: "Planning, preparing, adopting and implementing the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to be in the function of modernising the Republic of Serbia. “ The explanation is the same as when it comes to previous amendments, and I will not read it, but it aims to encourage and support the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by legal means. Of course, it's about modernising the public administration, by me being the one who would be apostrophe of the need to modernise the administration when it comes to local self-government. Here I would like to emphasise the need for more careful planning of necessary personnel, as well as reorganisation, in order to improve the quality and impact of public administration. This should all lead to a better and more efficient local self-government, no more examples happening to us than we heard about Smederevska Palanka, but, for example, and an example of the Vashhar municipality. So, after many years of power at Vrakar, the people punish those predecessors, the SNS assumes responsibility for the exercise of power in Vracar, we create a state-of-the-art and establish fragrant data. The report on the state of property of Vračar municipality showed that dozens and dozens of apartments, dozens of locals, thousands and thousands of squares of business space were missing. So, a total one ride and a disintegrated, literally halved property of the township of Vračar. This is not anyone's flat-rate assessment, this is a regular report from several audit institutions, and DRI and budget inspection and city internal audit and an external audit house. It's something we have to prevent in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28008	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic and MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and MP Marijan Rističević, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28009	Dear Vice President, this amendment wanted to in some way improve the legal-technically this member, if there is a need for this, and on the other hand to give support to the Law on the Prohibition of Employment in the Public Sector, since this law has given extraordinary results over the past two years. When it comes to unemployment, I must say immediately that the former regime in 2008 planned to reduce unemployment by 14%. Instead, it increased by the next 12%, so unemployment was 26.5%. The only government that has reduced Alexander Vukic to 11% now. During their regime, Serbia was the tenth country in the world for unemployment. They also promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that inflation would reduce 4% annually and go into surplus in 2010. Instead, she was, believe it or not, 10.5%. In 2014, the government alone reduced the inflation rate to 1.7%, which was the lowest inflation rate, respected citizens, in the last 40 years, and in 2017 turned into surpluses. That's why we can give citizens, we promised and we'll give them salaries and pensions in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28010	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that my faithful companion is voiced like that. As for this member and as for what Atlagic was saying, we planned to raise 348 billion more than the former regime's party collected in 2012. The agricultural budget, incentives, this amount is greater than 120 to 180 million compared to 2006, 2005, 2017 and 2016. The government has contributed to low inflation, to make the rate rise negligible, to keep imports covered by far higher-percent exports than they did, with them reaching barely 50%, that unemployment was halved. I do not understand the objections of the party of the former regime, which is 400,000 people, of which 300,000 directly from production, 100,000 from services, only in Belgrade the number of workers was 231,000, in order to be barely 20,000 in 2012. I don't understand those who changled factory workers, who scattered workers from combinations, destroyed livestock, destroyed production, transferred people from the business chain to the spent side, instead of income, I don't understand all their objections here today, yesterday, the day before, and I won't understand it for the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28012	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28013	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment proposes to return salaries and pensions to the level at which they were previously reduced in 2014, with an inflation increase during that period, because this proposed law will not bring them back with this increase to the level before the reduction. So, in addition to the anti-constitutional law that should have been abolished long ago, such a bill continues to rob the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You carried out all your reforms on the back of Serbian citizens, took money from farmers, took money from pensioners, took money from employees. You just haven't been saving on you who enjoy all the benefits of power, who these days at a session, like new parliamentary points, are trying to show all the successes of your six-year reign. In these six years, your government is also citizens who have felt this improvement on their backs, but they have also felt by reducing subsidies to agriculture, feeling and by increasing the price of electricity, by reducing wages, by reducing pensions acquired by rights, and they will only feel as the devastating decisions of such a reduced budget will be paid by generations. Well, and those pensions, which you have counter-constitutionally taken to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are likely to have to return some generations living in Serbia after some court decision. So, you leave the inheritance, in addition to borrowing in the budget for the new 5.5 billion euros in Serbian citizens, you leave the problem that one day these pensions have to come back to people. You also took 10 billion in this budget to municipalities and cities, although you already did so last year with the Law on the financing of local self-government. Also today in the 2018 budget, agriculture is well below 5% of the budget and you are in violation of the Budgetary System Act. Not to talk about GDP growth, not to talk about Serbia's public debt, that's true and that's the result. All these stories of yours and wanting to prove like bots that Serbia is actually developing, what you've done epochally for these six years, you won't be able to convince the citizens that the lie is true. The truth is always one, and they'll figure it out sooner or later. The attacks on the former regime, personal attacks, personal insults, with the desire to post-travell the subject of what is to be discussed in this House, you will not be able to conceal the facts, and despite the fact that you will probably manage to make this spin with more than 300 amendments that you have submitted impossible debate on the draft budget law, for the first time in the history of parliamentary life, citizens will not be able to hear the debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget, because you have something to hide. If you were so good, you were so successful, so why should you hide? Nothing. You should come out nice and nice in front of all of us here in opposition, Serbian citizens and shut everyone up and say, "Here, these are our results." So what you're saying doesn't match reality, and the reality is that this proposed budget for next year is the continuation of the robbery that this regime has been conducting for six years over the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28014	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28015	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. The chairman, please, this is already who knows which way in this session and during these few days that part of the opposition is primarily trying to challenge the SNS MPs' explanation of the amendments. It is the right of every MP in this House to explain his amendment. The MPs have submitted amendments, the number of amendments, it's from the opposition's population completely irrelevant. The opposition has the right to discuss, in any case, the amendments proposed. For days, at some previous sessions, we listened to their excessive arguments, and at absolutely no time we tried to prevent their opinion and the way they brought it up in this distinguished parliament. This is very important for the citizens of Serbia who are watching this. So we're not gonna keep our mouths shut about what was the past. Certainly, the future is ahead of us and it is set out in the draft budget law, and what it was, we will constantly and constantly point out and we will not keep any of their criminal affairs from the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28016	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, although you're partly right. I'm not used to my colleague Alexic using words this much harder. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day, colleague Vujadinovic? You don't want to. Thank you. Miroslav Aleksic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28017	Thank you, Chairman. For this truth we're talking about, we're also talking about facts. As for this amendment on wages and earnings, I will read for the sake of the truth. Today, after six years of your rule, the average salary in the Republic of Serbia is 409 euros. At the same time, the same salary averaged in Montenegro is 510 euros, in Croatia 792 euros, in Bosnia and Herzegovina 432 euros, etc. And that's true. Also, when we talk about a past, it should be said that by 2012, the average growth per year was 5.5% of GDP, here is Mr Vujovic, there can deny me if I'm wrong. We can also talk about a public debt that was 15 billion in 2012, today is 24 billion. It's exact data and facts. It's not my arbitrary insight into the situation, it's the truth, and you want to cover it up. If it were really so good, we would not be at the start of the region and GDP growth and on average wages and on the lowest salaries that citizens of Serbia receive today compared to all other countries in the region and Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28018	Thank you. The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28019	There were more basics, but it seems that some people absolutely don't want to accept that they can say something here without hearing our opinion. They're really crying to hear it. As far as the story of these numbers is concerned, 15 billion is not the same thing as 17.7. Let's look at some official records and those data you're quoting. At the end of 2012, 17.7 for which, by the way, we have not heard what growth was in that year. Was he good at that year? As to how much it is today, as it wasn't true that 15 billion is the same thing as 17.7, it's not even true how much that debt is in absolute terms today. But there is no free expression of this debt in relative terms, i.e. in that percentage, and it is not according to our law, nor according to international standards what is considered good practice established precisely in that relative percentage. To remind, according to our law, 45% of the debt was breached in 2011, it's a good flow of those who today are full of mouths of everything except personal responsibility. They broke it back then. In 2012, it was 56% in that negative spiral they caused themselves. Today it's very close to the value of landing under the Mastricht of those 60%. Today, it seems to me, 62% and the question is when it will reach 60%. But if we're going to charge each other and use qualifications like, as it was, parliamentary bots, why can't some bot, at least be yellow, make a statement of subsidies as negative and at the same time stand behind his words and say, "Here, I return the tractor that I got through those subsidies?" That would be, say, a good gesture. Why can't he say that today in Serbia is doing well and doing business, for example, to highlight his personal example as an example of good practice and to say – here, I managed to sell the party for good money, for example, Vuk Jeremic? Well, that'd be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28020	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28021	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, was a harshly broken member of 107 because the speaker, of the Wolf's progeny, violated his dignity by saying of the average salary. You're in Montenegro for a bigger salary, but why? It's because of him and his likes. That they didn't sell the entire social economy for 6.7 billion, that they didn't waste, and they didn't make neither production nor infrastructure, nor pay back the debt, that they didn't waste 4.5 billion donor support, that they didn't waste 5 billion Paris and London Club forgiveness, that they invested it in production, not consumption, not stealing, not public functions to make private businesses. If they hadn't left a 17.7 billion debt and five billion interest payments that we had to pay on debts with a 7% interest, that they didn't leave it, that they didn't fire 400,000 people, 300,000 out of production, 100,000 out of services, that they didn't increase the public sector to 781,000 people, that they just didn't sell the social economy, that they just made a source of debt, imagine we have 6.7 billion out of the social economy, and now we pump it into highways, infrastructure and production. How much money would that be? Salaries would not be 409 euros, salaries would be 1,409 euros. The fact that they're not, it's their fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28022	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on my injury to the Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. Thank you. The word has Miroslav Aleksic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28023	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike those who call me, I've never stolen anyone's mandates, nor made a party steal a mandate, nor sold anything to anyone. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28024	My friend Alexich, I apologize. I turned off your microphone. Just one moment. I really ask that I address my colleague Alexic and not use such words as stealing, thieving, not honoring each other with such terms. I'm only asking for more correct behavior. Thank you. Continue exposure. I'll make it up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28025	I thank the chairman. It's also because you're calling me that I've applied to a competition that your government has called and that's reported to 2,000 farmers. I didn't know that only advances have the right to report, not all of us who pay taxes to this country and who, I guess, have the right to apply for the funds you've called. If not, I ask you to write in a public call in the future – forbidden for all those who are not members of the SNS. As you are today exorcising people from work, as you harass them and putting on the lists of capillaries of anyone who is not a member, who dares to stand on someone's committee list, he is threatened not to leave, and you are calling me today because I am absolutely in line with the law and your competition and I have won the right to return to obtain tractors. I'm not ashamed of that. I've been farming like my whole family for a few generations. As for this information you're talking about, I'll tell you the next thing you know. So, if we're already talking about facts, let's talk about how GDP moved until 2014. The Republic of Serbia had a convincing lowest growth in 2000 during the period of government, i.e. when the prime minister was Aleksandar Vukic, which was 1.66% cumulatively collected, during the same time in Croatia growth was 4.1%) in Bosnia 6.7% in Montenegro 7.7%, in Albania 2.2%, Macedonia 10.9%, in Kosovo which you recognised to be 9.16% of my dear friends. These are the results of your reign for the past six years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28026	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, re-member of the 107th Injury of Dignity, as the previous speaker spoke of theft. I believe he's qualified. But as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I must confirm that the injury to dignity does not consist of, that tractor, tractor, tractor, driving the wolf's offspring. So, there's no injury to dignity in that. He had the right to get it. A violation of dignity because he accused us of only getting SNS and their coalition partners. That's not true. It was until they were the authorities only the privileged could get, only members of their parties, only friends, best friends, relatives could get tractors and machinery, vomiting, subsidies, only Zivkovic could get land for 40 years. I, as a farmer, was not able to achieve this right because it was a privilege, not a right, which is why he hurt dignity, because he thought that we would do everything they did in the period of their reign. How did they rule? We went well, drove Mickey for half a day, killed Julian. So, the 55 million, it's his obligation to prove what he spent on the care of the old faces, and no old person was found, and responsibility was transferred to the secretary of his fund for some human resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28028	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Right to the replica of Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28029	I have to admit, it was a nice explanation for the tractor. It's nice to hear here that we've heard a confession that someone's been involved in the subsidy programs. It's nice, although it was too high, because it's not something to admit, all of Serbia knows it. I just have to say it's very interesting, what's the conclusion then, are these subsidy programs good when they can be so well involved? Thank God he can, so a man can get a tractor, Yusuf, how bad it was and damages the country, etc. If this is another one, I can only repeat the call. Stand behind your words, not because of me or because of what you think of the SNS, but because of yourself. So if you're saying something, show that you're serious about it, so tell me I'm not going to do any of those subsidy programs, here's that tractor back. If you think it's nice and useful, very good, then say it like that, be honest. When we talk about honesty, it has to get us back on that subject, the mandate, is that it? What happens to the rest, or should I tell the second parliamentary group of the Wolf of Tadic, where all the DSS MPs themselves are sitting until yesterday. Did they follow the same arrangement that made that man market the party a classic transfer? They, as I recall, were in a dispute with their party over money, and now officials in a newly formed party, actually bought by Vuk Tadic. Is this perhaps an example of how mandates are respected, respecting the electoral list and citizens' will? Do you know that just in the European Commission's reports, such moves in this mandate, rather than in any other, have been characterised as corruption in parliament. By doing this, you're embarrassing Serbia. As much as you embarrass yourself, it only speaks of Kosovo. See Wikiliks depše, which was called as a relevant source by the election headquarters of Vuk Tadic Jeremic in the 2017 campaign. Are they relevant? Great. What these Wikiliks say about the shameful behaviour of Vuk Tadic, who told the US administration that he applied for the International Court of Justice's opinion only to buy time, and otherwise Kosovo's about that is nonsense for trade. Well, that's a shame, people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28030	Thank you, colleague Orlic. On the 5th amendment in the same text, MP Dejan Sulkic, MP Gorica Gajic and MP Maja Vidinovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28031	I am very sorry that Minister Vujovic is not in the hall right now, but I am bound by what happened exactly a year ago here in front of Serbian citizens the fact that I am appealing, trying to reason with the government to end the devastating, incredibly harmful, unfair so-called. a temporary employment ban that this government has extended year after year. What is completely amazing is that Minister Vujovic, and I here have the stenograms to hand over to Mr Vujovic, if he does not remember, that he said that to extend the employment ban by the end of 2017, which means a few more days, guilty, or responsible, Minister Ana Brnabic, who will be called to account for everything that should have been analysed by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has not been done. Minister Vujovic, I quotes, says – unfortunately, they have not yet developed their capacity to do so and therefore we extend it until the end of 2017. Minister Vujovic continues and tells me – but assure me, it will be abolished by 2017. Minister Vujovicu, we are today in December 2017, and you are re-extending the temporary ban on so-called "student". temporary employment ban. I quoted what you said last year when we talked about this amendment. Because someone didn't do their job. Because of my incompetence, ignorance, haughtiness, I do not want to prejudge for the right reason, you are charging from citizens of Serbia, from citizens and citizens who are leaving this country because this government, this measure says there is no place for them. If there were room with thousands of appraisals, we find contracts for the SNS party activists, but for the young doctor, the engineer, the scientist, the woman, the man who was directed and who studied fairly. He studied fairly and was defined to remain in this country, the government says there is no room. This is an awful devastating measure, and I urge you to re-admit this amendment, not to see you again in a year, to accuse now perhaps Mr. Ruzic or someone else that he is guilty of. It is not Mr. Ruzic's fault, as I do not doubt that it is not Mrs. Brnabic's fault, but this government that charges its own incompetence from Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28032	Thank you, colleague Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28033	Please, Mr. Vujovic for an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28034	The word is Mihajlo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28035	I'd give a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28036	Wait, you can't rephrase, you can get the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28037	Please, let me make my point. This isn't a ban, it's just employment control. Those personnel that need businesses, which are needed by the private sector, are immediately employed. Here, let's say, at the Krusik factory every machine engineer, every electric engineer, who's graduated from the state college, can get a job right away, come forward, the car will be sent for him to come to the factory. Therefore, this law only regulates employment and prevents the accumulation of personnel where it is not necessary, and above all in administration and bureaucracy. And with this measure should continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28038	The word has been made by Professor Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28039	I would just like to give the ladies and gentlemen of the people an exact piece of information, without the desire to participate in any dialogue, because the simple argument is that the number of women employed in 2016 and 2017 has begun to grow, and that is the number of young women up to 35 years old. It's statistics, there's no improvisations, it's future mothers, it's future, it's the highest quality, educated women, and I think that's the result that we all have to continue to cultivate together, as this government does.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28040	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28041	Dear People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, I would say to colleagues across the street because of this number of MPs who are today, you are the most responsible, because you have come up with the most important session of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we have the right to talk about the Budget Law safely so that all MPs will be on this side, so that you continue to humiliate the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Vujovicu, you said in 2013 that the public sector employment ban regulation will last until 2015. After 2016 in October you said that employment will begin in March 2017. So none of this has occurred and you are now proposing amendments to this law that the ban on employment in the public sector be extended until 2018. Unfortunately, a large number of young people, who for three, four years can't get permanent employment, who are not members of any political organisation can't even get credit, can't even get a chance to develop their families because of this regulation. A letter came to me today, so I'd like to comment on what you're proposing to these people who got this letter, how to behave. The letter reads, quotes - "We are going to another election race, this time for our local community. In the past few months, the municipal board of our party has hired a dozen of our activists in accordance with the expert training at that time sought. I appeal especially to you, who founded a working relationship, don't forget who gave you the quotes of a deserved job. Gentlemen, you are all employed not because you are beautiful and smart, but because you are party members, many have forgotten it, and therefore I will remind you regularly. Suddenly everyone's busy, busy, sick, waiting for you to say you're dead. Everyone now avoids party activities when they get to work. “ Mr. Vujovicu, I’m sorry, I won’t be able to. If you don't want to, there's someone who will. There is no such thing as irreplaceable in our party. The party's given you a lot, and in return, you're giving her an insolence by turning your back on her. A few days of campaigning can and must be done, so fight for the better tomorrow of your descendants. Whoever won't, there's no problem, there's no one who will.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28042	Comrade Kostic, I apologize. This really, some within a party letter, letters, correspondence are absolutely not the subject of this amendment. Minister Vujovic is here to discuss absolutely the subject and this amendment. If I let everyone read some letters...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28043	This is according to Article 5 of the Law. Give me your word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28044	Please, if you have anything, discuss the subject, the amendment, ask Professor Vujovic about the topic, and I don't want this session going on during reading each other's letters. Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28045	Chairman, I don't understand why you're taking the floor. I am authorized in front of my parliamentary group and I have the right to speak, but it doesn't matter, it's your attitude and it's unfortunately the behavior of all the presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28046	No, I was just suggesting. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28047	Will you let me finish? There are 50 representatives of the ruling party on the other hand, so they will have the right to say the same. This is all about Article 5 of the Law we're discussing. So this letter and that shows another SNS amateurism. This letter, unfortunately written by a member of the municipal council, SO Vorbas. So, I'm being called by the people of the Vrbas municipality and said to ask, should I tell Mr Vujovic whether this employment ban provision applies only to people who are not members of the SNS or who are not members of all citizens? This is the relationship, and for this reason, the members of the Serbian Dvora Movement are not against Vucic and the SNS, but against a party parasite system that has destroyed Serbia in the last 17 years, and that is why people have gone beyond the border and that is why people have no chance of getting hired, precisely because of this sort of thing. This is from two days ago, this is fresh and prepared for the Vrbas Municipality's local community elections scheduled for December 31st. Mr Vujovicu, please comment on what you think about this way of working people who run serious municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28048	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28049	The speaker you gave the line to, my exposure to nothing was caused because he directly mentioned me, and I had to have the right to a replica. Since you didn't give it to me, I'm pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that you've done...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28050	Well, let me tell you, it wasn't a replica, Dr. Jokic said on the amendment, because he didn't have the right to reply. You didn't have any, you weren't mentioned, and I'm behind it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28051	I'm directly mentioned and tendently and misquoted. We had incorrect information that this was not about the Budgetary System Act we're discussing, it was about a regulation. We had legitimate efforts by SNS MPs who advocated that the ban on employment applies indefinitely. Mr Vujovicu, the Minister who answered me, I respect the context...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28052	What member did I hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28053	I'm just explaining, let me just give you a minute to explain to you why, for one thing, it's not about the regulation, it's about the Budgetary System Act where this temporary measure is being extended, which is causing chaos in the systems. Can you let me explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure or don't you want to let me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28054	I don't know why you're using a pay phone right now. So I gave you the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I suggest you once, twice, but you keep replicating. You know you have no right to a replica and I beg you to point out which member of the Rules of Procedure I have hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28055	You know you have an obligation to give me your word. You know you have an obligation to listen to the MP to explain it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28056	I wouldn't want to go into dialogue with you any further. Thank you. The word has Dr Dusan Vujovic, minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28057	I will answer only, providing information only on the part relating to the December 2013 regulation on the ban on employment, practically on the permitted employment that goes with the Commission's approval, which, on the basis of justification, allows for employment, in particular in situations where it is necessary to replace people who for personal reasons or who have left unaccompanied places, where it was not possible to fill those places and in those situations where they are created, to open new services, new sectors, new positions, such as in the opening of border crossings, such as the opening of new ministries, such as the Ministry of European Integration, the Ministry of Environment, for Ecology, such as some other sectors in a number of ministries. So, this Commission was created in the very beginning to in some way completely prevent the negative effects of a global employment ban regulation, until more lasting solutions are found, from being overcome. A more permanent solution has been offered through strengthening the capacities of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, to assess the methods of assessing optimal employment and to offer instead of linear methods, methods that will allow higher employment in some places, and some places aimed at less employment, taking into account the quality and betrayal of the offered services of the Serbian population. So this is our goal – that the old methods, the administrative methods that allow only linear increases or linear reductions, are not adequate to respond in new conditions to the needs of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28058	Thank you, Minister. Vladimir Orlic is entitled to a replica. [[Maya Vidinovic: I have the right to replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28059	The mention of the party, of course. I must confess, I was not surprised to hear that he was here to participate in the debate and to defend Vuk Tadic and his MPs, the one who just did. Why didn't it surprise me? Because they literally identified with that man. Should I remind myself that the leader of this association, which is probably registered as a party, is the last thing I heard about them, is that they are registered as a party, I quote, "is in national and patriotic terms the same as Vuk Tadic Jeremic", which means that he has identified himself with Jeremic's treatment before the UN, has identified himself with the descent of dialogue with Pristina from the UN to the EU, has identified himself with that shameful debacle before the International Court of Justice, and also with these things that we have, reading the copies of "Dverlix", or "Vikilix", as it is now called, I can't remember, what is reliable with Vuk Tadic's Jeremic, and so on this call, they have identified themselves. So it's about the patriots of the same class and the same range, that they defend each other and support each other, and I'm not surprised at that. What surprises me is this nonsense and stories about some party employment at the expense of the SNS, and they haven't asked questions yet - and who's working on that side today in the state sector. Does that mean you're all in the SNS together? Well, of course not. It is pointless to say this to someone whose leader was first in his life on the party line, went to Velimir Ilic and begged him to give him the place, as it was, the manager or spokeswoman of the library in Cačka, on the direct party line. Under the same line, grants were received as a division of 481 – NGOs in 2006 and 2005 from different ministries, party and political, and in 2004 from public enterprises, party and political. Ladies and gentlemen, to hear all this from the man I want to praise, finally to agree with him, who himself says he's speaking based on his experience at the bottom of the snake, well, well, I can only agree. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28060	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Gorica Gajic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28061	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am reporting on the amendment of my colleague Kostic to Article 5. I want to support that amendment. In fact, the Public Sector Employment Prohibition Act is being extended throughout 2018. Mr. Minister has just explained to us that this is just another measure in order for the competent ministry to carry out some structural analyses that require a reduction in the number of working people and which it is not. Mr. Minister, while we are waiting, and already year by year we are trying to say that we need to do a good analysis in the public sector and on the number of extra employees and on the professional preparation, or in the staff structure, you have now given through the Government's commission the opportunity for certain sectors to employ a portion of workers or employees to replace those who retire. But it's very slow, Mr. Minister, going that way. Many systems and I, in principle, stressed, such as the social protection system, is a major outflow of professional workers. To create a good social worker, it takes you five or six years to train that worker intensively. The Social Labour Centres have remained decimated, believe me, they can no longer provide quality services. That's what our minister knows, and he's trying to help us in every way he can. Here and there is a job by which, believe me, this extension for another year many systems will make it simply impossible to provide adequate services. There's something else I need to tell you. Whether I'm gonna make a joke or seriously tell you, I'm just afraid for these bill proposals that you've passed. If, in the future, you and the other ministers, with the laws that come here, you have so many amendments by the ruling party and the coalition that is with them, I'm afraid your bill is not good. So, then you're going to have to consult with us more from the opposition, because it seems that much less we have objections to your draft laws that you're making here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28062	Thank you, colleague Gajic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28063	Thank you. So, Mr. Marinkovic, you've injured Article 104, which speaks of the right to replication. You said just before that that you had closed the circle of replicas, as usual, and as you always do all the chairing round of replicas always closes when that right comes to opposition. You allowed Mr. Jokic to talk allegedly about the amendment, although he spoke about everything, only not about the amendment and it was essentially a replica. He just continued his presentation, asked for a replica, you didn't give him, he continued, it turned out he was speaking according to the amendment, although he didn't. You gave Mr. Orlic a replica after the presentation of Minister Vujovic, then it turns out that he had previously had a right to a replica, he would have had an advantage over Minister Vujovic, if he spoke after him turned out to be entitled to replication of what Minister Vujovic was saying. It means they're replicating themselves within the ruling coalition. Minister Vujovic explained the ban on employment, and finally, thank God, explained to the citizens of Serbia that it was not a ban on employment, but that it was only about the control of employment, strict and strict employment control by the government, so that no one who does not belong to one of the ruling parties would by any chance get through. Perhaps it was the basis for a replica by Mr. Orlic, therefore, that fact, but in the future, if you want the actual debate to take place on amendments, then sanction, first of all, the representatives of the government, and allow the representatives of the opposition that when they really have the right to do so, when they are offended, when facts are brought out of personal life, to exercise that right to replication. You were talking about the replica district. The circle of replicas does not exist in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is another abuse allowed occasionally by the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28064	Thank you. Appreciateing that you are one of the few people who really points to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and does not replicate, of course, I have given my colleagues Orlic the replica that belonged to him in relation to the discussion of my colleague Maja Vidinović, so he was absolutely right. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28065	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. (Maya Vidinovic: I'm in the system, look who's registered. ) Thank you to the MPs for trying to teach the president and vice presidents how to conduct the session. Let me use article 27 and run the session as best I can and how I can. Nemanja Sarovic: Who should be in charge of the session. Marinkovic was a great leader. I thought I'd suggest you lead, but you can't run the Rules of Procedure. (Imanja Sarovic: Yes, if you resign. I'll be right there. So Vesna Marjanović isn't here. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word from them? The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic:
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28066	Thank you, President. First of all, we have submitted this amendment to support the fight against poverty in the Republic of Serbia. I've been waiting impatiently all day, we've listened to countless pointless criticisms, to state one case of how representatives of the former regime are professionally, carefully, thoroughly, gentlemen, managing budgets, and thus to show that they are not the ones who would be a good alternative to us. For example, Stari Grad municipality, the case of the Milan Gale Muskatirović Sports Centre, where the party with its former MP and former director, and the current director, has led the sports centre to destruction, we only expect it to level with the country, after so much debt has been paid to them, by tens of millions of dinars per year. They're just for example. The sports centre's logo paid for 40 million. That power of the Old Town municipality, which has its own, right here, the representatives and those who support them from the former regime, destroys our municipality systematically and those who support them here, actually shows that sign of equality. For example, they show us very concretely that we should not be guided, and we in Belgrade have shown. Just one thing to say, by cutting the debt from a billion to 200 million to 600 million, by lowering record unemployment in Belgrade to below 90,000 unemployed today you have in Belgrade. For the past 30 years, Belgrade has not stood as well as today. Large infrastructure projects, hundreds of kilometers of sewerage, heat grids and everything else in Belgrade that is done is a sure sign that Belgrade is moving forward, that Serbia is moving forward. I absolutely support everything that has been said here today by the SNS and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28067	The word is Miroslav Aleksic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28068	Thank you. Dear President, I am advocating Article 103 because you are obliged to allow MPs to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure which your predecessor, who chaired the session, has done most harshly, and you have not allowed me to do so. In his actions, he allowed MPs who did not have an answer, when there were no arguments, to approach the last line of defence, which is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, the right to replication, and, with the help of the chairman, to shut down all who have arguments on the side of the opposition through the exclusion of microphones. So, the most brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure. The gentleman who got the right to harm the Rules of Procedure talked about what my personal life is, whether I'm responsible for something, whether I'm a thief, whether I'm not a thief, etc. It doesn't stand anywhere in the Rules of Procedure, and it's the one who needs to cover his ears and keep quiet, because he sent his own wife to prison for him. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28069	We're not talking about born and unborn women. I understand Article 103 that you are dissatisfied with previous session management. Do you want us to vote on Article 103's injury? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. Hold on, Veroljub Arsic, please. I think in many of these applications there is also a previous amendment. Ivan Kostic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28070	An amendment, authorized, to Article 5 of this Act. I think colleagues on the other hand should be grateful, because I turned out to be correct, I didn't name the person who sent this letter so we wouldn't be so rude to that person, but there is a letter. If anyone wants it, they can have it. As for Article 5...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28071	MP, about the amendment. It is about the UN's goals of sustainable development, which is certainly not a letter from Vrbasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28072	Article 5, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28073	He doesn't have a colonel to write. Believe me, you'll have to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28074	Chairman, Article 5. I'm authorized and I'm talking about article 5 of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28075	On the amendment to Article 5?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28076	No, authorized, Article 5. I'm authorized and I speak the amendment. So, Article 27e of attitude 34, that's what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28077	We're talking about Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28078	The Ministry of the Interior, the Department of Defense, the BIA... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28079	Dear Ambassador, even though you are from the Dverry Group, the rules apply to all. This is about sustainable development, the goals of the UN's sustainable development, which is what this letter, which you're trying to read, everyone doesn't contain in itself. (John Kostic: You're wrong. We're in Article 5 of the Law. He did, on article 5 in front of himself, but the amendment. These are details, to remind you. I thank and appreciate your efforts to participate in the debate. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28080	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and this amendment to the budget system refers to the way financial institutions function. One of our financial institutions, which also has a supervisory role, is the NBS. As important as it is how the NBS functions as the Central Bank, I'm only going to point out one case. One of my distinguished colleagues mentioned that the average salary in Serbia is 401 euros, so he listed how much in Croatia, Montenegro, as in Macedonia, etc. But it's their salary. But here's what it looks like when the former DS regime and Boris Tadic create salaries. For example, in 2009, the euro jumped 16.5 dinars. Why didn't the fellow MP calculate how many of these 16.5 dinars are fewer salaries and pensions than Serbian citizens? Well, then, for example, in 2010, 14.25 dinars jumped the euro. How much has this reduced wages and pensions in Serbia? Well, let's say in 2012, 16.10 dinars. How much has this reduced wages and pensions in Serbia? In order to explain the importance of the Central Bank, it is concluded that 41.49 dinars were jumped by the SNS at the time of the takeover by the SNS in 2008 by 41.94 dinars. So 54.99% of DS and Boris Tadic cut salaries, pensions, trade capital of state-owned enterprises, craft capital of private enterprises, real-sector crafts capital. These are the results of their government. So don't give us any respect for how unsuccessful we are. Maybe we're not successful enough to solve all the problems, the thief's and the crime they've committed in four years while they've been in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28081	The word has the People's MP Miroslav Aleksic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28082	Thank you. I, unfortunately, have not heard the answers to everything I have asked of the minister, nor any MP who has worked very hard here to take personal insults and other insights off the subject of the questions I have asked, which is – is it true that we have the lowest salary in the region? Why do the citizens of the Republic of Serbia continue to be victims through the extension of the anti-constitutional pension reduction law? Why don't their pensions and salaries return to their level before the drop with an increase in inflation, but stay at the same level? Why is Serbia still in debt? Why are cities and municipalities being robbed with a new 10 billion? Why is agriculture still below 5%? So that's all the questions that are open. As for the salary that one of my colleagues was talking about, here's a chart. This shows very nicely, the average salary from 2007 to 2016 expressed in euros and dollars, without inflation. You're only at the level of 2007 and 2008. As for that qualification of the euro, well, you must keep the euro low in order to say that your President Alexander Vukic's 2012 promise was fulfilled, in 2013, that the salaries will be over 400 euros. The moment the euro gets the value it really needs, the pay will drop below, and you will increase the hour, etc. So the answers were about Kosovo, about WikiLeaks. You gentlemen don't need any WikiLeaks, because you're doing it in public today. You are the ones who integrated the judiciary into the Kosovo system of institutions, who gave them an invitation number, which you gave them membership in the Olympic Committee and many other competences. Today, Mr Djuric called for business co-operation with Pristina, because we must develop relations with the Government of Ramus Haradinaj, which you have also made, and these are your answers to whether or not the law should be abolished and this amendment should be accepted. So, no arguments, no answers, but purely personal attacks, including me, whether I have the right to use subsidies or not. I'll never support them at a level that's below the law. You're breaking the law you adopted. The Budgetary System Act, ministers, defined 5% to be an exemption for agriculture. Why didn't you change that if you didn't want to respect that legal provision? I ask you to follow the law, at least as a serious man, and do not buy into these politics and the desire to cloud the truth in Serbia, which is that this budget is the continuation of a devastating economic policy that will continue, exclusively on the back of citizens, to make reforms through various taxes that you will adopt these days, the gatherings, the cuts from the budget, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28083	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28084	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, for the second time, from the same speaker, a violation of dignity, article 107. It's not our fault, dignity is hurt by being accused of the lowest incomes and guilt of the ruling majority. No one from the ruling majority has a country of 28,000 euros in allowance. No one spent 3.6m euros on flying. It's a radio wolf descendant. For that money, and he bought it over, what you call some women, he bought it from some company, and it took him 10 years to get in the air. And he spent 3.6 million in five years. Our women won't organize a press conference to cry. But the same wolf progeny bought a villa for 500,000 euros and transferred the woman to the City Bank 680,000 euros. Now I'm risking Natasha from the public sector organizing a conference and making them cry, but I'm standing behind this data. That's why the dignity of the National Assembly was hurt, because they robbed everyone alive. They spent their loans, didn't create a source of debt returns, fired 400,000 people, 5.5 billion euros left interest, 17 commas a few billion, four and a half billion donor support. They've spent God's father. They're not afraid of God. People aren't ashamed. And they're transferring us today for low personal incomes. I say, if they hadn't done it, the salaries wouldn't have been 409 euros, would have been leading in the region, would have been 1,409 euros if it hadn't been for the criminal association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28085	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28086	Fellow MPs, that's what it looks like when colleagues in the former regime don't want to hear or see, so we always have to warn him. So, in June 2012, that's when you lost power, the average salary in Serbia was 333 euros. And you're telling me that 405 or 401 is less than 333 euros? You may make less money than when you were in power, but that's your problem. It's clean, so I can't choose words anymore, a lie that the course of the euro is artificially maintained. In order to artificially maintain it, you have to have a high reference interest rate. Today, it's at 3.5%, and while they were in power, it was 18%. And another thing that disproves my esteemed colleague is that we don't sell foreign exchange reserves to save the euro course. We are now returning to the foreign exchange reserves of the four and a half billion euros you sold by 2012, while you were in power. Now, that's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28087	The 5th amendment was submitted by Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28088	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for submitting this amendment is my insistence on improving the financial basis for the judicial system, especially given what low branches the Democrats have brought down the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia. The best possible example of this is an example of a municipality in Serbia, the municipality of Vlasotince. Namely, there are the chairman of the municipal board of the Democratic Party and then the president of the municipality, also the Democrats, who also misused the municipal seal, at a party meeting of the rules of the lists of similar and inappropriate judges, and solely on the basis of belonging to the Democratic Party. I'll read you some examples of what it looked like. It is said of the candidate: "The President of the Court since 2000, broke between DS and DSS, so he has overcome the current interest, which is why it is considered DS's. However, in principle it is fair, so it deserves a chance." We have another candidate for a judge or prosecutor, who will probably do his job fairly the next day – withdrawn, possibly honest, sympathiser, co-operate without discussion, and according to that and undeniable. That's also the letter published by the Society of Judges. The proposal states in this article the increase in salaries for judges, prosecutors and employees in the judiciary, which I absolutely support because, among other things, it will provide a better standard for judicial employees, and hence, an independent and more efficient judiciary, as our country deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28089	The 5th Amendment was filed by Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28090	I thank you, President. With this amendment, I also wanted to highlight the importance of encouraging and realising investment through the budget, but before I go about the amendment itself, I would like to say a few words about what my fellow opposition member said about the growth of the gross social product. I talked about it today, but I just have to, because he said that our growth is down, that we have negative growth. See what that looked like in a gentleman from a “yellow company. ” In 2008, the total GDP was 33 billion and 704 million, and 31 billion and 683m euros in 2012. So, by two billion and 100m euros, it was less GDP in 2012. During the SNS, from 2014 to 2016, 2014 was 33 billion and 318, and in 2016 34 billion and 616 billion or 300 million more. So much for negative growth. As far as this budget is concerned, I am glad that this budget provided money for the project to build a fast traffic station Novi Sad – Ruma. This fast traffic station is an extremely important project for Novi Sad, because this time it will remove cargo traffic from Petrovadin, which really bothers the citizens of this part of Novi Sad, and significantly speed up traffic between Novi Sad and Ruma. This project is important for all of Serbia, because building this fast traffic station will connect Corridor 10 with Corridor Four, i.e. the Belgrade highway – Budapest near Kaćka loop and the Belgrade highway – Zagreb near Ruma. Also, cargo traffic will be moved from Iriga, as trucks pass through the central city street and create major problems for the citizens of this place and not only that, but traffic will be released at all. Right now, it's going from 10 to 12,000 cars a day. Significantly, the project implies the construction of the largest tunnel in Serbia, which should be about 3.5km long, and the share itself will be about 45km long and the maximum speed will be about 100km per hour. Fifty million dinars from Serbia's budget is money to produce a project documentation that will provide a good basis for building this important traffic station and I am sure that in collaboration with our Chinese partners we will build this traffic station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28091	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28092	Thanks to fiscal consolidation measures, thanks to macroeconomic stability, thanks to the reduction of public debt, we have come to a situation where we have one development budget, one budget that creates a space for improving the social protection function of the state. First, I would like to express my satisfaction that employees of social protection, social doctors, social workers, then doctors, police officers, soldiers will receive a 10% salary increase in January of the December salary. As for the budget, which is set out in section 30 of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, I must point out that the 90% budget in the euro is higher than in the 2007 budget at the time of the transmission regime. I must also point out that the budget in the division of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, which is not part of the protection of families and children, amounting to 54.3 billion dinars, is double the budget planned by the DS regime for 2012. Also, I must point out that this budget of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, which applies to family and children, once again the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that for her and for us, SNS and all our coalition partners, all mothers, are the same. This draft budget has actually increased the scope of the scope of mothers who can use the right to maternity leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28093	The 5th Amendment was submitted by Vesna Rakonjac. The 5th amendment was submitted by Darko Laketic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28094	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, primarily Article 5 speaks about the regulation and way of budget allocation, more specifically both budget revenues and budgetary expenditures on one side. However, in an indirect manner he regulates and controls the budget's mandate. It is in this sense that the question arises - how are local self-government budgets not controlled until 2012? Namely, there is no controlled budget or municipality of Prokuplje, nor its public enterprises and institutions. If that were true, it wouldn't have happened if the local water line in 2010 raised a 50 million loan that we're still returning, and I'll be back, reminding myself, 96 million dinars, and on the other hand, the money that was spent, was spent on who knows what. That's because at the moment when the loan was raised there were acute obligations of this company of 3.5 million dinars for the transport of workers from work and work, 14.5 million dinars to the Water Directorate, 30 million dinars did not pay to Serbia for the liabilities they had, 50 million dinars, that I already mentioned, no taxes were paid on workers' income. What is terrible is that workers who have spent the entire working century in this company and who have obtained conditions for retirement cannot, unfortunately, make a pension until about 500,000 dinars are paid per employee for unpaid taxes and contributions, in order to connect them with their employment. I ask you, because it is also the motive of proposing my amendment, so that this never happens again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28095	Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28096	Dear Presidents, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment aims to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia through legal solutions. Otherwise, Article 5 refers to an increase in wages and pensions. In fact, fiscal consolidation, good policy, the government's responsible policy of 1 January 2018, will lead to an increase in education wages. Ten.7 billion dinars are set aside for salary increases at this point in the next year. The total figure for education next year will be 197 billion dinars. That's how it works. They respected us just now that the average salary in the Republic of Serbia is 409 euros. Well, of course, 76 euros more than in 2012, when it was 333 euros. And imagine what our salary would be if the money from the controversial privatisations, which he put into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, had been put into the budget of the new schools. Imagine how many apartments as a stimulant for young scientists and young married couples would be built for probably 600, 700, billion euros, who knows how much from controversial privatisations. We should put all our fingers on the forehead and never do this again in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28097	The 5th amendment was submitted by Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28098	Thank you, Chairman. In the function of economic development, we just heard something that is very incorrect from our colleagues, which is to list a list of SNS employment, which is certainly a difficult nonsense. We're opening new jobs, but we don't work that way, and waving those letters is really incorrect. Now imagine if I were to say that I found a letter in front of the congregation, it wasn't signed, but it's roughly - Dear Bosko, when are you going to give us back that stone, we need it for cabbage? We don't know if anyone believed you were from Kosovo, did it have any effect? If it's not, never mind, don't get upset, everyone in there broke in anyway. So there's no point in waving letters like that. Since he waved rocks, and then hit our colleagues with mice, that's the path to digitization that I'm about to talk about. Digitalisation is one of the most important parts our government has planned in its programme to modernise the state administration so that citizens and businesses can be enabled more efficient and easily available services provided by the state and a good example of digitalisation by the Ministry of Health – pilot project in Belgrade. So she started using an electronic recipe in 10 Belgrade municipalities on October 30th, and recently two other Belgrade municipalities of Lazarec and Grocko. In a month's implementation of the electronic recipe, more than 500,000 Belgrade citizens have thus taken over their therapy in some of the 2,166 Belgrade pharmacies. It is estimated that 65m recipes are issued annually and that, among other things, we have a twom-euro savings in the press. So, contrary to digitisation in the service of economic growth, we also have a "yellow company" pocket digitisation project that their former favorite Oliver Dulic patented in his ministry, so he concluded a contract with a private company, imagine, for archiving, storing email messages. The Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning paid three million 646 thousand dinars to one firm to store and store email messages. Imagine a private company guarding the e-mails of the government's authority. Why didn't they do it? They didn't have time for the people and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28099	Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28100	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers do not have a better member talking about monetary and fiscal stability, about macroeconomic parameters for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the majority in the Serbian Parliament than members of the 27a. Budgetary system law. You have a prior fiscal strategy, fiscal principles, but in 27e. are defined fiscal rules. These fiscal rules are a basis for functioning and sound fiscal policies. If we have managed to put this amendment and these budgetary changes into a situation that, as only 2% of the countries in the fiscal reform process, raise salaries for public sector employees, and what is this rather than proof of the success of the fiscal policy and policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We today have 8.3% of GDP on public sector employees expenditure. In 2017, we end up with that amount. So, basically we don't change the part relating to public sector employees' expenditure, but when we entered fiscal reform in 2014, we had a fiscal deficit of 6.6%. There was no question of whether the salaries would grow, whether they would be paid at all. Whether pensions will be paid. Seventy-eight days we've had for the liquidity of the Serbian state. As only 2% of the countries that entered the negotiations and the agreement with the IMF, after only three years in 2017, we gained the condition that, by sticking to fiscal rules and to 8.3% of GDP, we increase part of the expenditure on public sector employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28101	The Fifth Amendment was submitted by Miodrag Lint. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. I'm sorry, Miodrag Linta has a word. You have to report to the system, not just to get up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28102	I'll talk about the amendment regarding, above all, solving the problems of the evasive and displaced faces. Here in today's debate is the issue of problems faced by refugees in the town of Cačka, but not only in the town of Cačka, but in dozens of other cities. What exactly is this about? In fact, the funds of international organisations in Serbia have built around 3,500 housing units for refugees and displaced persons. The 2010 Refugee Law gave the right to ransom 3,000 refugee families, unfortunately, that right was not obtained by 530 families whose apartments were built by the Italian government through the so-called so-called "Italian government". Sir program. It is the cities of Nis, Chačak, Kraljevo, Valjevo, Kragujevac, Pančevo and the municipalities of Stara Paz. In 2003, the government of Serbia and the government of Italy signed a memorandum on the construction of new 530 apartments in these seven local self-governments, where 40% of families will be entitled to ransom, 40% will be leased, and 20% will eventually decide. Unfortunately, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, i.e. Minister of Capital Investment Velimir Ilic, 2006, the Memorandum was changed, the ransom option was expelled, and these 530 families were discriminated against because they were in an unequal position compared to these 3,000 families who have the right to buy. We, myself, have been trying to solve this problem intensively for many years now, that these 530 families, 80% of which are refugee families, and 20% of the family from the home population, are equalized and receive ransom rights. We also had several meetings with former Minister of Labour, Employment, Social, Combat Issues, Mr. Vulin, we had a meeting with Mrs. Mihajlovic, Minister of Construction, Transport, Infrastructure, however, we still haven't solved the problem. What's the point of the problem? Mrs. Mihajlovic's attitude and Mr. Vulin's was that this could not be resolved, i.e. that the government could not reach a conclusion that would allow the right to buy out for these 530 families until the Italian side, as the signed Memoranda, had given its consent. I appeal to Mrs. Mihajlovic, here now to Mr. Djordjevic, to organise a meeting to send an official letter to the Italian government, to ask the Italian government to give consent to the ransom and then to enable the Serbian government to finally receive these 530 families after eight years of agony and 10 years of agony and to be equalized with the other 3,000 families. I hope that with the help of Minister Djordjevic and Minister Mihajlovic, we will solve this problem in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28103	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Here you go, Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28104	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the objective of this amendment is to further encourage poverty reduction in the area of the Republic of Serbia through this legal solution. We are satisfied with the way the Republic Government is fighting poverty, but we are not satisfied that by 2016 at the level of certain local self-government and also at the level of the "yellow enterprise",OUR Vojvodina, there was a waste of money from budget funds, which instead of going to the fight against poverty ended through a variety of subsidies of new, call technology, where in compensation for spent subsidies were taken, we heard siphons, which is one-piece, which is antifreeze, which is a deadlock, and in this situation went a step further. Subsidies of 200,000 euros have been given to the Subotica winery, which has returned its debt to 6,000 bottles, called the top white wine. That comes out at a price of 2200, 2300 dinars per litre of that wine. No less, no less, that wine passed to the AP Vojvodina Stock Reserve Directorate and to the Red Cross of Novi Sad. That's where he loses every lead. I really wish the users of the Red Cross service were on that level that they needed top white wine and that it was spent where it was spent, whether it was perhaps wine cooked so that those people who need help of the Red Cross, could warm up a little, warm up both soul and heart, I don't believe. I think it's the yellow thief company that closed the circle and stole those 6,000 bottles of wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28105	Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment:
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28106	Thank you, President. The very purpose of the amendment is explained to further strengthen the fight against crime and corruption. I know respected ministers, however, that the implementation of the 2017 budget is now near the end, but to contribute to the fight against corruption at any time is not excessive. So we don't have an affair like Tesla Bank, for example. In order to make it clearer for Serbian citizens, Tesla Bank was founded during the Mirko Cvetkovic government as a Serbian state bank in Zagreb. NJen's goal was to help Serbs return to Croatia in order to help them establish small and medium-sized enterprises and thus contribute to their better status, which is both very bad and unenviable, and that is what my colleague Linta says throughout the day. But how it all ended. To begin with, the bank was founded with a million and a half euros in the role of the government of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, Mirko Cvetkovic was headed by the government, a million and a half euros were attended by the government of Bojan Pajtic, i.e. The circuit administration. In no year of its existence, the Bank has earned a profit. That's amazing. Of course, all because the loans were granted without cover and after four years it was closed. The total damage is 2.7m euros. That's 90% of the bank's total capital. Of course, it all went to the detriment of its shareholders or two governments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Regional Administration, i.e. After all, to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now, if we know who was behind those two governments that were shareholders of Tesla Bank at the moment, I think it's quite clear what political structure is and what political party is behind that failed project from that period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28107	Blaž Knezevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28108	I thank the chairman. Serious projects are needed to develop and improve infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. One of them is the reconstruction and construction of the Belgrade-Budapest railway line. The project aims at building, modernising and reconstructing the work of an existing railway, building a new August to get August in two directions. For passengers and goods and traffic and for speeds up to 200 km per hour. The ultimate goal is to expand the railway line, the high speeds of Belgrade-Budapest, all the way to the port of Piraeus. After the reconstruction and modernisation of the Budapest-Athenian railway line in the total length of 1543 km, the economic development of the countries through which it is passing through, which is Hungary, Macedonia, Greece and Serbia, would be significantly encouraged, as this railway line passes through an area of about 340,000km where 32 million people were inhabited. On the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is important to say that the length of the railway line is 182.3km and is divided into three shares, namely Belgrade-Stara Paza 34.5km or a total value of $350m, Stara Pazova-Novi Sada 40.4km and a total speed of $585m and Novi Sad-Sabotica railway, according to Hungary at 107.4km. The project makes it clear that the state of Serbia, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia, has a firm stance and a clear plan for both reconstruction and construction of new railway lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28109	The 5th Amendment was filed by Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28110	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The budget system law in which we are talking about budget allocations. What is significant is that from the savings that have been achieved so far, space and basis will be opened to increase the earnings of the beneficiaries of the budget. These funds have been set for rewarding those who have suffered the greatest burden over the past period, when it comes to saving and stabilising the budget. What is crucial is that this decision is sustainable and that it is planned from real and existing means at the time when, of course, conditions have been achieved to this end. This will allow for an increase in earnings and employees in health and education, and employees in social protection institutions, as well as pensioners. Now, of course, there is room for financial support for families with children, at the moment when the family has the most expenditure, the funds allocated to families will be increased. The Ministry of Population Policy is conducting projects in local self-government and it is precisely in the municipality of Trstenik that implemented the project together with the Ministry of Population Policy, where a counselling for pregnant women was arranged, but also a purchased apparatus for radio waves. With the help of the ministry, the project is also being implemented to support families with three and more children, who are beneficiaries of social assistance. However, in addition to relying on the ministry, the municipality is also no longer late on birth-based givings of each child and giving to unemployed families. Issues have also been increased for the out-of-body fertilisation item. The objective of the amendment is to further encourage and strengthen equal investment and support for population policy throughout the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28111	The 5th amendment was submitted by Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28112	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 in order to strengthen the health system once more. Since I'm a doctor by profession and I come from the Kruševnica General Hospital, according to the profession of a psychiatrist, I'll agree that the salaries may not be that great, but that we doctors are also aware of what kind of state we found in 2012, devastated, so we too have to bear the burden of reform and, of course, we accept common sense, because we want better, first of all, to our children. Otherwise, I have to point out that before some of the yellow companies and their personnel had, even though they were losers, a variety of stimulations. So, at the time of the yellow party, their directors had stimulation. From the devastated areas that had no indication that they could stimulate them, they reportedly received some stimuli and wages that were not shown through the Anti-Corruption Agency, so the director, more specifically the Ivanjica Special Hospital, at the time of ruling, this known yellow company, had a variety of stimulations and had a salary of about 170,000 dinars. Indeed strange data, but apparently this yellow company had to stimulate them, and we are now stimulating our doctors through projects to develop the health system, and we are doing well, and so, in the previous 2017, we had projects to build and equip health institutions, which are worth as much as a billion and 400,000 dinars. Of course, health care professionals are satisfied. Here, they will now be even more satisfied when they are expected to raise their wages, but realistically from the budget that this government has recovered, headed by President Vukic, not as those who criticize us today did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28113	The 5th amendment was submitted by Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28114	Thank you. Serbia's development is always one of the key priorities for anyone taking care of the country, and it really cares about the state. One of the objectives of such importance really deserves support in the implementation of the budget. Among other things, good subsidy policies, for example. When it comes to subsidies in businesses that directly encourage job creation, and also through subsidies in agriculture, which allow citizens of Serbia to get a tractor, for example, even when it comes to people who do not like subsidies, but love tractors, it is good to know that it is possible in these situations. When we talk about incentives for the economy and when we talk about opening new jobs, one of the key factors, ladies and gentlemen, to make investments worth it and to make investments real, is the proper stability of society. One of the main indicators that society is stable is that we in the Republic of Serbia have moved significantly away in the process of European integration. Every new open chapter on the road is an additional confirmation for potential investors, that it is a stable, regulated system, that it is a country where rules exist and rules are respected. In this regard, I congratulate both Serbian citizens for opening two new chapters. Now a total of 12 open, two temporarily closed. It will also be a good confirmation for all potential investors who want to come to Serbia, that this is indeed a place where their capital is safe and can expect good results for themselves and for the people they hire. Contrary to good integrations like these Europeans, there are others, such as integrations in circles so-called. The former regime and I are taking the opportunity to congratulate on the just-born co-operation between the yellow tycoon Gilas Dragan and the great Dossos winners Jankovic and Jeremic. Now they'll be able to officially cramp together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28115	Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28116	Thank you, Chairman. The members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is once again almost an empty room where members of a small-scale opposition sits, but fine. This member, so Article 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System regulates the increase of pensions and wages in the public sector, and I have proposed that the adoption of a new position – planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget – be done to the greatest extent in the function of modernising the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we in SNS are heartily in favour of the anticipated increase in wages and pensions. I believe that this is another proof that we have achieved huge steps towards stabilising macroeconomic policy. More importantly, we created a solid financial base based on which we are today able to carry out this pension and salary increase, so on a real basis. Unlike the yellow company, which was used exclusively for pre-election purposes, for day-to-day political purposes, regardless of whether they had a foundation in the budget for such a thing, regardless of what consequences it would have for the Republic of Serbia's budget. So all they could do was be in charge, take loans, and that's very unfavourable loans, under very unfavourable conditions, and that's how they brought the state literally before bankruptcy. Fortunately, it is something behind us, in 2012, there has been a change and today we are on track to make Serbia a well-organised, decent and modern state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28117	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Veroljub Matic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28118	Thank you. In Article 5(3), I proposed adding words - the Republic Geodetic Institute. This amendment supports the Government and contributes to the quality of the law itself, i.e. the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System. The Republic Geodetic Institute, as a special organization, is very important for the state, for its functioning, through their work and their activity. I think two things are most important to mention here, and that's that the Republic Geodetic Institute keeps records of all immovableities, and the same entry into the immovableity catalogue is also evidence of ownership, as well as that all kinds of burdens and limitations can be recorded in the immovableity cataster. The Republic Geodetic Institute is a set of top engineers, technicians, assisted by a good legal profession. For all these reasons, as a serious state, this government is guaranteed to implement the project of improvement of the land administration and the Republic Geodetic Institute is doing it successfully. I hope that the Government will find ways to continue to support the Republic Geodetic Institute as an important special organisation, through material support, and through the personal receipts of all employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28119	The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group and MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want to take your word for it? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28120	Madam Chairman, last year, about this time, we had the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, and then we had Article 4. He said -- Article 27j adds Article 5, which reads: "The content of the proposal for medium-term public investment priorities and conditions for their inclusion in the proposal for priority areas of funding is prescribed by the minister. We're saying it's not good, and you're attacking us. Yours has been adopted, that law passed and that Article 4 has been adopted. Now, after a year, in Article 6. The proposal for a bill, the government of the Republic of Serbia, now with a new prime minister, says to be deleted from Article 27j by this very position of 5, that authority of the minister. You'd say write it down. Beat it. It is only important to follow EU rules and standards. Then we get a response from the government's representative, that it was done because, in the meantime, the government passed a regulation based on Article 54 of the Budgetary System Act. But there was a member of 54 last year, so he wasn't the basis for the regulation. That's why this intervention was made. And this is how every record can be broken. Mrs Gojkovic, you will be remembered in 2017 because the National Assembly was successful, has passed many more laws that were not discussed under the amendments, but those laws where the amendments were discussed. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28121	Which depends on the Messengers, not the chairman. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28122	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have just confirmed what the Government has written, that a certain member, as regards the power of the minister, is being deleted, that these powers have been established by the government's decision. It's about local budgets and capital projects. So, the government needs to be supported, unlike the party of the former regime, which calls for some salaries. There is that – indeed, in the midst of the wages are greater, for they were fortunate not to be ruled by a yellow company, and therefore their wages are greater. For these reasons, therefore, capital investments are something that needs to be driven both by economy and by personal income. The budget is a forecast of income and expenditure and, given the construction of infrastructure, on capital projects, a large part of it will restore low construction and we will not do what they did. They didn't have infrastructure, they didn't make highways, they didn't modernize railways, they just took care of themselves and their neighbors, and they made private businesses out of public functions. Our obligation in the world is to get this country out of crisis and through capital projects to revive both production and infrastructure, everything they haven't done in the previous period. There's no such thing as a gift for the future. We must create the future ourselves, and therefore, unlike them, we must be hardworking, and I advise them to spit less on us, and more on their hands and finally start doing something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28123	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28124	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the objective of this amendment is to further encourage poverty reduction in the Republic of Serbia by abolishing the power of the minister to directly intervene in these situations. However, it will be matched by a regulation that has been passed. If that were done in time, probably the money wouldn't be thrown into a well in a yellow company in Vojvodina just to jump out of the fridge, out of every chocolate they gave the kids, so they opened the same companies twice. For example, the company "Keramika Unika" two ceremony, first 2008, then in 2009. All this cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia 325,000 euros, and the "Keramika Unika" from the Power Subsidisation Fund received these funds, only a year later, after these two wonderful and successful openings, with millions of debts to go bankrupt. Millions of debts and province loans and subsidies ended up in private pockets, and Kikinda ran out of power, no employees. Today neither Mr Pajtic nor Mr Petrovic nor the yellow company can explain why they gave 300,000 euros to the company, which was founded just before receiving subsidies with minimal capital. Did they give him 300,000 euros that simply with those antifreezes, glass and money laundering fluids and to put them back in their pockets, it remains only for everyone to think about it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28125	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28126	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment envisioned that a member should not be deleted as stated in the draft amending the law, but rather define how public investment priorities will be regulated. It is something that is very important and something that is missing from Serbia right now. The finance minister is here to correct me if I'm wrong. But in order to have GDP growth, or production growth in a country by a minimum of 5%, you need to have a level of public investment between 22% and 25%. That wasn't in the last five budgets. There's a bit of a shift in the sixth, but not yet on that level. It is especially important who sets priorities in these public investments, and therefore we believe that this member should not be deleted. I would very much like someone to answer me why the priority for funding the gondola in 2018 and 2019 with ten million euros or a billion euros and 200 pairs of Serbian citizens would be more of a priority than supporting the construction of a gondola, for example, in Zlatibor, which is financed by local self-government. I'm also interested in why the priority is building a highway from Nis to Drac, not, say, Moravia Corridor. The Moravian corridor passes through Serbia's heart and is not in the budget. More than 500,000 people live in the area from Kruševec, Pojat to Preljina in fact. The densest populated part of Serbia is also the biggest traffic problems. That corridor has been gone for six years and you don't recognize it in this budget. It is therefore important to seriously consider priorities and to consider investment funds, because Serbia is still at the beginning of the region after the growth of production, and until this changes, you will not solve anything with a deficit, which is currently being maintained and reduced on the back of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28127	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again my amendment refers to the functioning of financial institutions. And why the functioning of financial institutions? So to continue the development of the Republic of Serbia and to get as much road infrastructure as possible, rail infrastructure and attraction as possible, as much investment as possible. You know that every mile of highway that's been made in the last few years is a major advance, since by 2012, we've only been degraded by what Joseph Broz Tito has done to us. I guess in their desire to undo communist ideology, they destroyed the infrastructure needed to function the state and economy. I can't explain it any other way. Now, I understand fellow MPs that everyone is fighting for their end and that is their legitimate right, however, the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to ensure a balanced economic development throughout their territory. So we have a situation that is completely reconstructed from Salakovac to Petrovac on Mlava, I don't know if a colleague knows it, or that a completely one municipality that has been completely devastated by the government of the Republic of Serbia's care has got a completely new path from Krepoljin to Zaguvica. These are the results, which means that the governments led by Aleksandar Vukic and now as president of the Republic of Serbia take care of every citizen and every part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, unlike in 2012, when they did not lead, that at least they were leading in some part of Serbia's territory, but they were not at all, so they completely devastated Serbia. It seems very funny to me that they're constantly trying to get the citizens to pay off some of the debts that Alexander Vukic's governments have made. The citizens of Serbia and the whole of Serbia pay off the theft of the "yellow company" and Boris Tadic and Bojan Pajtic and all others who led Serbia at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28129	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28130	I am pleased to be able to agree essentially with Mr Krasic and Mr Alexic's discussion. I just want to give them one explanation, so it'll be clear why. So here it was written in a member who is changing, the last paragraph reads: "The content of the proposal for medium-term public investment priorities and the conditions for their inclusion in the proposal for priority areas of funding is prescribed by the minister". We are going from an ad hoc solution to a consistent application of a regulation that tries to make best world practice exactly what you said applied in Serbia. So, from the identification of projects and their compliance with development priorities to the previous analysis of project feasibility, through full analysis, through an evaluation of projects that we don't generally do where international organisations don't ask us to, to the readiness of projects for realisation, monitoring of realisation and project effects. So we completely agree, we hope that this regulation will be able to respond to those demands and then we will have a chance to assess. It shall apply from 1 January 2018. I expect that these challenges will be great, but I expect major shifts on that very plan. Thank you very much for starting this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28131	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28132	Thank you, Chairman. The point is, as always, I say, to strengthen and further encourage the fight against corruption. I know that a reminder of some past events hurt our opposition colleagues, but you can't essentially talk about the present and plan the future if you don't compare it to the past. Of course we have to compare events and of course we have to point to everything that happened in the past period, to see what this situation looks like now and what it can look like in the future, which is, for example, the draft budget law for 2018. What did that look like in the past? In fact, somewhere I should say, most Serbian citizens had, on condition, the happiness of being under the authority of a "yellow company" for 12 years. However, we were in northern Serbia for 16 years, until last year. There was a capital investment fund there in northern Serbia, which was an imaginative way to pump state money into the private pockets of political leaders and their friends. In fact, sometime before the end of Bojan Pajtic's term, he was renamed the Vojvodina Development Fund or something. I'm just going to tell you that the billability of this fund's claim was about 75%. The chargeability of this claim in the 2011 pre-election year falls somewhat lower, i.e. non-payment is also at 85-90%. I think now everyone's assuming why. In that pre-election year, the money from the fund goes to the province's mostly finance company, and it is clear who is involved in the whole process. I wanted to point out that it wouldn't happen to us that in some future period, in the present, we're in a situation where we plan a budget to have some kind of, say, criminogenic parts or corruption in the draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28133	Thank you. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28134	Thank you, Chairman. Clear indications that the state of Serbia is seriously accessing all citizens' problems through reconstruction of houses in the Kingdom. The project has a strategic importance, as apartments are provided for the repopulation of households from non-secured housing units into adequate safe housing units. The total project is around 13.6m euros and 59% will be financed from the Central European Bank loan, and the town of Kraljevo will participate with 41% of the project's cost, means in money, nature, land security, financing of construction, primary and secondary infrastructures. The city will also provide and cover the cost of issuing permits, overseeing works, procedures for technical reception, etc. The project would cover the construction of 360 housing units on average about 45m square meters to repopulate families whose houses damaged the earthquake. The damaged buildings will be torn down, and the overall budget of the project is 13.5m euros, of which eight million is a loan for construction, and the rest will be the participation of local self-government. This is how the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia think about its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28135	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28136	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear fellow Members of the People and citizens of Serbia, I have also submitted this amendment for the benefit of our citizens. I think this proposed budget and all these laws are really good. By the way, I'd like to give you one piece of information I've recently received. Namely, to cheer my Kruševljani, but also all citizens of Serbia, the Henkel factory in Kruševec, will invest 25m euros in capacity expansion in 2018, and this is announced today at a press conference for this factory, which today celebrates 15 years of business in Serbia. This shows that Henkel will enter the market in 2018 with new production technology, meaning that conditions will be created for new jobs. Of course, by 2012, Kruševac had left many citizens on the street, but fortunately for us, we manage to solve these problems and citizens are employed. Otherwise, it is all thanks to this responsible policy, because foreign investors have recognised the policy that the SNS is running and here, as you can see not only new investors appear, but also those who have already invested in our country. On this occasion, I also want to thank the citizens of Serbia, who not only support everything we do, but also actively participate in reforms, and to note that in the last elections for the local community councils held two days ago, they have just given support to the SNS with 98.5%. It once again shows that we are on a good path and that we have nothing to fear, because citizens want results, and that gives us exactly SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28137	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28138	The issue of Serbia's development, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is indeed in close connection with the issues of GDP growth that we discussed today. The fact is that this growth in no year after 2012, so it never came to this catastrophic level that was worse than minus 3.1 or two, which could certainly be raised and praised by the former regime. So when you talk about this growth today, you should always remind yourself of that result. Otherwise, when we talk about the region and compare some data, figures and values, we should always keep in mind that in addition to this growth that is real today, which last year, for example, was real 2.8%, this year real about 2%, next year, the government accounts 3.5%, and our EU friends say, but also the Fiscal Council that it is quite certain that there will be four. It should always be kept in mind that there are other parameters such as unemployment issues. When we talk about unemployment, it is actually reduced, it is drastically reduced from a rate of about 25% we have reached a rate of about 12% with a strategic goal of getting it down below 10% that is considered good by European standards, and when I talk about the region and in the broadest sense, it would not be a bad thing to make comparison between Serbia and other countries in the broadest sense, it will appear that maybe only two countries that belong to the EU stand better than Serbia today, all others are worse, including again EU countries. At the very end, an adequate attitude towards infrastructure was mentioned and used permits were mentioned, not to work like the Belgrade Radio City under the rule of the yellow tycoon Gilas, in the case of a bridge on Ada that has since failed to provide a valid licence. By the way, I would like to congratulate Dragan Djilas and his violent Sapic for joining them in their joint nudge, both Jeremic and Jankovic officially today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28139	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Markovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28140	I thank the chairman. To Article 6, as you have said, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, and it is said, a new position reads: "planning, preparation, adoption, implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to be in the function of modernising the Republic of Serbia". As I have already pointed out, we in the SNS think that modernization of public administration is one of the priorities, especially when it comes to local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities. In that sense, I mean not only local self-government officials, so the presidents of municipalities, council members, etc., but I also think about the management of public enterprises and institutions whose founder is local self-government, i.e. City hall. I already mentioned once the Vračar municipality as an example of abuse and non-domestic management by the DS that long ruled the municipality. But what was happening in the Public Business for Management of the Vrachar Business Area, it's a scandal of really great proportions. In fact, they allowed hundreds of millions of dinars of claim to remain unpaid, so 422 million dinars remained unpaid for aging. The total minus is much larger and it amounts to 780 million dinars, but 422 million is something that made us have to say goodbye to it, as incurable. They didn't sue, they didn't send warnings, they didn't take any means, or any security measures in that sense, and it's certainly not because they didn't do it out of ignorance or intricacies, but it was an organized thief, and it's a good thing that criminal charges were filed. I hope that the investigative authorities will deal with this, that the investigation will determine whether they received orders from the head of the Vračar municipality at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28141	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Martinovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the momentum of the amendment to support the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy, to invest more funds in equipping Serbia's Army. Here's a few figures that illustrate that this policy is really real and real, provided you run a real economic and fiscal policy. In 2015, 23 billion dinars were allocated for salaries employed by the Ministry of Defence, in 2016 also 23 billion, in 2017 24 billion 46 million and in 2018 25 billion 827 million dinars will be allocated. What also encourages is the fact that from year to year, budgets relating to machines and equipment are increasing, and that in translation means that it would understand a common way, in the quality of Serbia's Army's weapons. So, year after year, more and more is invested. In 2014, two billion 959 million dinars, in 2016 three billion 577 million dinars, in 2017 three billion 705 million dinars and in 2018, will be singled out, a record 11 billion 141 million dinars. I would like to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the results achieved and wish them much happiness in further equipment and strengthening our only army of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28143	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28144	I thank the chairman. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our people have a saying – whether or not the reform of the 2008 judiciary has been repeated. I am speaking in the context of the budget, in the context of the amendments I have submitted, which is about seeking a larger financial and better financial basis for the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia. You see, at that time, there was a lot of cost to our country. The cost was borne by the state, and therefore the citizens were in a bad position. Namely, the newly elected judges were DS activists, the grateful party who proposed them, loyal to the leaders and the party, to the people who then led the DS, subject to their influences in decision-making, so they did not run many laws but rather to party instructions and thus led to unequal case-law that had serious consequences and long-term consequences for both the state and the citizens. The items in which they were unprofessionally, unprofessionally, and very often ordered to judge caused new costs, and the citizens were neither guilty nor obliged to suffer consequences. All of this reflected negatively on our country's budget and the problem was being transferred year after year, because it was high sums. With this amendment, I want to point out the close link between our country's budget and the judicial system and some things these countries should never experience again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28145	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28146	Thank you. Before I go on the amendment, I would like to say that the question of my fellow opposition is why financed from the 2018 budget, we finance the construction of the road, the Niš highway towards Drac, not the Moravski Corridor, in fact essentially illustrates the difference between the period in which the SNS and the period in which the yellow enterprise ruled. At the time of the yellow company, they couldn't even talk about what they were going to build, because they didn't build anything because there was no money in the budget for that sort of thing. So, I would like to talk about an important investment for the City of Novi Sad, which will be financed in the amount of 200,000 dinars from the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget, and this is a science and technology park. The project is partly financed by the European Investment Bank's loan, and the value of the contract is slightly higher than 12,000,000 euros. The main objective is business infrastructure support for small newly established incubator companies, whose activity is innovation in the fields of scientific research, as well as investment of high-tech companies in investment and development. The company's incubator will be able to use scientific and technological park services under more favourable conditions, during the first three years since its establishment, which will significantly contribute to their sustainability and development on the market. A 29,000-metre-square building will be built, out of which 10,000 square meters will be for classrooms and laboratories of the Faculty of Technical Sciences, and the rest of the companies from the Faculty of Technical Sciences will employ about 3,000 new engineers. The construction of this facility is extremely important, because it will contribute to the employment of new assistants, but also to the education of engineers in the IT sector, which we certainly need.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28147	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28148	Thanks to fiscal consolidation measures, thanks to macroeconomic stability, thanks to a decrease in public debt, growth in economic development has also made conditions for better social policy, i.e. conditions for better social protection of the country's function. I will return to my amendment, which concerns improving the position of the most vulnerable categories. First of all, I have to point out that this government has continued the continuity of the government of Alexander Vukic and that now, when it comes to the protection of families and children, and this is about social policy and demographic development, i.e. demographic and population policy, which is as important for SNS as economic policy. In this regard, it is very important that new legal solutions increase the scope of users who can use the right to maternity leave. In fact, this government recognized that mothers who are farmers' insurance companies, mothers who own agricultural holdings, mothers who work under contracts on occasional and temporary jobs, mothers who work under copyright contracts, unemployed, can use the right to maternity leave. It is a significant financial support for families to increase ethnicity in Serbia. Another significant step taken by this government, i.e. the Resorient Ministry of Labour and Employment, martial arts and social affairs, is that mothers will now give birth from the state, from a resolution ministry which will also be an employer, directly at their expense to receive maternity leave and will not depend on the will of employers, means that maternity leave will not be delayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28149	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Vesna Rakonjac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28150	Dear Chairman, respected ministers and distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, we are talking above all today about the Budgetary System Act, which defines both the revenue and expenditure sides of the budget, but also the resources, the amount of resources to be channelled towards infrastructure. We have heard really hypocritical statements today that are among the individual opposition MPs, and they are related to the debate on whether one path is better than the other route of the highway. I say hypocritical, first of all, because during their government, a total of a few kilometers of highways were not made. On the other hand, every statement, not in this parliament, but also in the state is malicious, if it is said that the highway that will pass through Toplice, I am talking about the Nis-Dras highway, that it is harmful to the state of Serbia, that it is harmful to Toplice. What's the answer? Is the answer to the fact that we have a goat track in the warm region? The heat must be where new investments will come in, and this is the prerequisite for it. The spa must be a place where more children will be born. The cannon must be a dam, in every sense. I truly condemn any statement that is contrary to the fact that the highway, not only with its completion, its construction, but also in the course of construction, can bring only benefits to the citizens of Toplice. Citizens of Toplice with enthusiasm and great attention, above all, observe these sessions and eagerly await the start of the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28151	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28152	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment reads: "Planning, preparing, adopting and implementing the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia". The amendment aims to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia through a legal solution. When a man is educated and he can think, he makes the difference between pastures and the most exclusive land to build on the Wizard. Does an uneducated first-class pasture man pay a million and a half euros, or is he dealing with classical embezzlement, because he is, you know, being called, a pasture on Vrakar serves to build exclusive apartments? It's very important when you're educated to know the terminology, so you don't make these cardinal mistakes, because when you say pasture, people think they can bring sheep to pasture or God forbid someone else is a sheep to cut hair. Since the SNS people are educated, they know well that this issue and the contract are opening up a number of interesting issues for both the former Sutanovac minister and the Anti-Corruption Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28153	According to the Rules of Procedure, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28154	Mr. Vice President, I'm calling for article 106 and very explicitly regarding article 107. Convinced you know these two members, I don't know if you feel any shame about the way this session is going. I'm explaining why I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure and no throws will stop me from saying what's true, and unfortunately, the citizens know. The ministers, I assume, who are entering the assumed good intentions came here to discuss the arguments with all MPs, are absolutely legitimately right and MPs of the ruling party to submit amendments that we will then discuss because I suppose some of them also find this budget very bad. Unfortunately, three days of Serbian citizens testify that this brutal abuse of the Rules of Procedure, for which you are responsible right now, is your predecessor, your predecessor, your previous and will remain remembered as a sad episode of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and the fact that you will not in any way shut up and prevent the MPs of the opposition from talking about the amendments. I am fully convinced that citizens know very well that these sad, memorized, barely read songs will not prevent us from talking about amendments to the improvement of the budget and will remain a remembered way of discussing the 2018 budget. You're brutally violating the Rules of Procedure. I hope, if there is any shame in you that you are aware of these facts that you will no longer allow this, otherwise we will no longer participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28155	It is the right of every MP to submit amendments, and as you have seen, I cannot forbid the Members of the People to do so. They do, they think they have that right, and if we're going to have a discussion of ministers with you, as far as I can tell, you're the only MP from the former regime sitting here in the O.R. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Here you go, colleague Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28156	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Development of economy, tourism, a very significant and good example, the city of Belgrade in the first six months over a million nights. Only in July of this year has 33% more nights recorded than in July of last year. No city in Europe has more tourists than Belgrade. What is closely related and which can contribute significantly to tourism, and for us again from the culture's point of view priority, it is the opening of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Belgrade on 20 October this year after a decade of being closed and failed attempts at reconstruction, those who speak of shame. In June next year, citizens expect another major event, the opening of the National Museum, which has been closed to visitors for years, and could open it, those who speak and praise their culture. But they didn't exactly do anything in the museum field, so they had in their projects, they were on the verge of opening steel museums in Smederevo, a museum of devastated investment funds, museums of industry and such museums, but we beat them to it because we sent them to a museum of pest control regimes. Thank you. (Maya Vidinovic: Again according to the Rules of Procedure.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28157	No, I'll let you play all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28158	I find the Honorable President an insult to tell anyone, not me to play.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28159	You didn't answer for it, but for some imaginary violation of the Rules of Procedure, so talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28160	That's what I'm talking about. I'm asking you to let me speak. So, I'm answering the Rules of Procedure, playing nothing. I'm doing my job very seriously and I'm warning you of article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28161	Don't warn me. I can't. It's not okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28162	The speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted, so please explain to me whether the previous discussion was in line with the Rules of Procedure. Not one word was the amendment submitted by the SNS MP. If anything to the pest regime, the thief's former regime stands here, about some museums, I ask you to tell me, then we don't see the same amendments. Has this MP now abused the Rules of Procedure talked about everything, but not the amendment? Please explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28163	There is no point in Article 106 that I explain whether the previous MP spoke of the amendment. I don't understand you. (Maya Vidinovic: You can talk about what's on the agenda. That's on the agenda. Don't argue, I understand you're nervous, you don't like the discussions of MPs who aren't from your party. What am I supposed to do now? To shut down the multiparty system, I can't and I won't. I can't think of anything. I'm not an advocate. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28164	The budget system law concerns fiscal policies. In Article 27 that we are changing, we are actually putting fiscal policy on the ground that could not function without monetary policy. On the Committee on Budgets today, we discussed re-election of one of the members of the governors of the NBS. When you look at the results of fiscal policy, they're this good, because you have a stable and sound monetary policy. The best example of this is when you look at the inflation rates that are in the EU zone and that are Serbia. When you have an inflation rate of 0.5% and 1% higher in the EU than in Serbia, it never happened. When you look at how inflation was reflected in the functioning of economic growth and development, that is, when you look at the rates of inflation in Serbia over the past ten years, then you realize how much a shift has been made to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the functioning of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. If you have inflation in 2008 of 6.8%, in 2009 10.4%, in 2010 of 11.5%, if you compare the period 2016 with that inflation, where inflation was 1.6%, in 2015 1.5%, in 2014 1.7%, then you come up with one simple and incomparable fact. We have completely different periods of growth and development and fiscal functioning. How can you talk about growth, unemployment rates? In these two different periods, if you have a 10% inflation in one period that completely deprives every possible growth. Monetary and fiscal policy is an integral part of macroeconomic policy and therefore these two things work well, at the expense of and in the interest of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28165	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Miodrag Lint. Here you go. Please, MP, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28166	I will talk about an amendment concerning a very important issue, and it is about improving the position of Serbs in the region. In practice, the process of registering real estate is being conducted in Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, which means replacing old land books that were made during Austria with new land books. In fact, a large number of citizens did not coordinate land books and cadastres until the beginning of the 1992 war in BiH. A new land book is now being donated by the World Bank and the Swedish government. On this occasion, I would like to invite all citizens, namely all Serbs who are native and native to the Federation of BiH, and now live in Serbia, Serbia or scattered around the world, so not only half a million expelled Serbs, but also those Serbs who are of child and origin and have left the area after or after World War I, or World War II. A large number of them have their own properties, i.e. their own land, forests, houses, meadows, pastures, hurricanes, garages, business spaces, etc. It is very important to monitor sites of municipal courts that will call public calls, publish these public calls and call citizens to register their rights to these properties for certain cadastrian municipalities. I am now setting an example, a municipal court in Bihać called for citizens who had their rights to three catastrian municipalities, the Serb village of Pritok, then Ripac, where there was a significant number of Serbian people and the King, a memo, or a call called on October 30th, until January 9th. It is now important that all citizens of the three Catastrian municipalities apply, or declare their rights otherwise, if citizens do not declare their rights within a certain period of time when they are called by municipal courts, there is a danger of abuse of their property, i.e. enrolling in new land books as owners of Croats, Bosniaks or local self-government or federal government, etc. The western landscapes, i.e. the municipalities of Bihać, Glamoc, Grahovo, Bosnian Petrovac, Drvar, Key, Sanski Bridge, Bosnian Krupa, Jajce, Donji Vakuf, Kupres, Bugojno, are also threatened by the areas of central Bosnia, the areas of Sarajevo, so it is very important that citizens of Serbian nationalities from the Federation of BiH, repeat their monitoring sites of municipal courts, to follow these public ads, to follow our website of the Alliance of Serbs from the region, to report to municipal courts, to show interest in keeping their property and to enroll them in new land books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28167	Parliamentarians Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic submitted the 6th amendment. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28168	I thank the esteemed president. Another amendment to our focus group. That our idea is good, says exactly what the Government has done under this Article 27. It means that it adheres to the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development. So, from real resources, we plan and do only what's real. We mentioned today, even at one point, a distinguished colleague of Blaža, which I particularly enjoyed, mentioned my city of Kraljevo and one investment, a major project in which I, too, participated in the start of the issue in my own time. It is precisely that Blaža, as an example, mentioned the King's and the resolution of the housing problem of people damaged in the earthquake, says that Serbian Progressive Party MPs are also following this issue, not small-minded and comprehensively considering this Law on the Budgetary System and the Law on Budgetary Budget, which is why the MP from Šapca talked about the problems of the city of Kralje, which someone could not solve in time. That this government is doing well and that it is planning well, it is also saying that they are provided and the means to edit the location for one large investment, manufacturing, closing the production plant or factory in the Kingdom, as well as to solve another stable problem, and that is, whoever followed the media and listened here, that the government has decided that in the following year, one of the six cities where apartments for the military, BIA and our police will be built is also the King. Also, I have to mention here, that the Democratic Party used this in some pre-election campaigns, like in 2012, it built a magnificent airport building in the King. Unfortunately, they haven't solved the runway, and worst of all, they haven't solved the ownership problem, because that airport is still military, not military or civilian. So I hope we solve all our problems in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28169	Parliamentarians Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović and Sreto Perić, together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and National MP Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28170	Article 7. The bill's proposal is probably the best proof of the complete absence of any strategy in Serbia's budget system. In fact, it should be recalled that the Budget System Law has changed 12 times so far and this is the 13th change. But it's interesting what happened to this particular article 7, which refers to the original member of 36a. It's about a decision-making manual in the local government budget. Among other things, it says that there are conditions for including capital projects in the local government's budget. Why is this interesting? Last year, when this law was changed, you were in that Article 36a. Paragraph 2 shall be replaced by a point and added to point 4, which shall read as follows: ‘conditions for the inclusion of capital projects in the budget of local authorities’. So you asked last year to put it in article 36a. And that's how it went. This year you have exactly the same text, only now you are replacing the point with a dot and deleting the same conditions that you entered into this bill last year. So, extremely non-serious, extremely non-visionary, extremely irresponsible. What are you gonna do, like, every year like this? And this isn't the only member where you did something like that. And how irresponsible you are as a government, your answer to us, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, which is why you did not accept our amendment. We have proposed by amendment to delete what you are now asking for to be deleted -- conditions for including capital projects in the budget of the local government, we asked for it to remain, just as you asked last year, and so the assembly majority adopted you. And you are now saying that the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons that you did not accept our amendment to Article 3. And an explanation of why you did not accept the amendment, says – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that EU financial assistance is considered a kind of public revenue belonging to the budget. Imagine how slightly that has nothing to do with each other. This is the best indicator of how much you in the government don't care what the MPs say, what they suggest, and how much you yourself don't have any strategy and vision about the budget system of the Republic of Serbia. Very, very bad. I hope that people who are looking at this understand through this example what the relationship is like for you as well as for the government and for the congregational majority according to what life essentially means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28171	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28172	I'd like to ask you to listen to me before you judge and put such hard words into our account. We are calling here for a previous discussion, a previous member. This riddle isn't hard at all. It reads like this - we put it in the budget last year, because after a year and a half of the attempts we failed to get most of the regulation governing capital investments, and last year as a sign of our desire to regulate the capital investment sphere, we put it in the Budgetary System Act. As this year's regulation passed, which fully regulates this area, we now feel that the conditions have been met that this is not repeated in this law, that it is not contradicted. Therefore, as your colleagues have been answered in the previous article, in which we said to delete the last sentence from the previous article of the law, this same sentence is deleted here, which meant the same thing at the local level. There's no riddle. If you'd just been focused, you'd hear that explanation refers to the same thing. In other words, the regulation regulates both at the level of the Republic and at the level of local conditions under which capital investments are defined, from identification, through previous project preparation, to the full preparation of projects, evaluations and realizations, according to standards that apply in the world, so that you and we can see transparently the consistency of the proposal for investment projects, from ideas to realization. Trust me, wait for an explanation, then just give me your grades. Therefore, as of January 1st, we start applying the regulation and it would be too much to define it in two different ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28173	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28174	Minister, you can't talk to MPs who submit amendments that way. We can go with you. I haven't told you yet that you're not focused. You said earlier that I wasn't focused. I'm very focused. (Dusan Vujovic: Look at the stenogram. Don't throw it at me. I'm very focused, but you're not. You didn't explain it to me, you're telling me now - we should have listened to what you were going to say first, and then we should have written the amendments. You need to concentrate a little bit, a little bit to tie the Rules of Procedure. As long as you're coming here to represent the government, you need to know what you're saying. So you didn't answer the essential question. What you just said, you could write in two sentences in an explanation, not what you wrote, which is an absolute joke.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28175	Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Marko Atlagic and MP Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28176	President-in-Office, this amendment aims at legal and technical cooperation, on the one hand, and on the other. You're right, Mr. Finance Minister. I support the government, which proposed that the fourth element for making a decision on the budget of local authorities be deleted, and concerns the inclusion of capital projects in the local government budget, as the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the 2017 Regulation to apply on 1 January 2018. If it had been for this regulation, one president of one municipality would not have happened, and now the MP, May 13, 2016, spends in one Atrium cafe in Smederjevska Palanca 110,000 dinars for coffee and in another 139,850 dinars for beer. I'm writing a book now, graphics as political messages to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and exactly the graphite from Smederjevska Palanka is taking the central place, which reads: "The truth is alive, there is no beer in Palank. All that's left is foam, drank by yellow haineken. And the beer was expensive, I drank it, I bought it. Whatever drinks the bar, the budget pays for everything. I'm the yellow Ken, from the Glimmer, for Christ's sake! “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28177	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28178	These professors, ladies and gentlemen, when quoting someone, should indicate who they quoted. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about capital projects, about the government's regulation replacing the minister's powers, so I'd like to talk to you about these capital projects that were done by the former government. We farmers know, and capital projects are seen as sowing and planting, it should be carefully prepared. To eat delicious bread, you must sow wheat. To eat a delicious fruit, you must plant the fruit first. That's right with capital projects. They need to be done to make the salaries, pensions, and standards bigger. I believe the government wants what we peasants want. As good hosts, they want their citizens, as well as our hosts, to reach more developed countries as quickly as possible in quality of life and standard. Let's see how it's done in India. The Capital Project "Hala for the University" which was due to be completed in 2009. The shift was last year, 2016, the hall wasn't over yet. The University of Indjia has become a “jada. ” Five hundred fifty million in debt, and the hall isn't finished. The lawsuit, the budget broke by 2,037 million or two billion, so we can rightly call it "pain". Look at the wonders, in Vienna, Goran Jesic, as Sulejman the Greater, or more ridiculous, took over several hundred squares in downtown Vienna, placed himself and didn't care that the University became a "jada". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28179	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28180	Thank you. People's MPs, we were already talking today about what a bad situation was in the defence sector when Minister Dragan Sutanovac was. In the 2000-2008 period alone, more than 500 tanks and hoodies, 220 armored vehicles, more than tens of thousands of light weapons were destroyed, 1,200 arrows, type 2, 1100 anti-aircraft cannons, 26 multiple rocket launchers M63. By 2008, we didn't have any MiG in the resource, and by 2012, we had one. I sincerely hope that such times, evil times per army of Serbia, for Serbian citizens and for their safety, will never return and support the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which in the 2018 budget envisioned for Serbia's Army's more than 11 billion dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28181	I thank you For Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28182	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed with the amendment the addition of a new stance relating to further encouraging and developing the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. Finance related to the judicial system is part of the budget, and are also closely linked to other components that make up the Republic of Serbia's budget. This was the case in 2008 and 2009 when the conflict of interest of individuals damaged our country's budget by a certain amount. For example, we had a case that the judge of the Supreme Council of the judiciary was also the president of the RIK. According to the Law on Judges, the judge cannot perform public office and be paid for it. So it was a direct act of law and budget damage. Also, according to the same law, unwittingly performing the judicial post is the reason for the resolution, which did not happen, and the law was re-imposed, and it was little, so the same president was constantly in the conflict of interest elected for another term of office. There are no examples of this today, as every effort made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is aimed at sound and realistic budget planning and its implementation solely in accordance with the law. Of course, such a attitude towards the budget will at any moment be supported by SNS MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28183	I thank you for the amendment of Article 7 submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28184	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment that reads – Planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent to support investments in the Republic of Serbia. My amendment is an incentive to plan investment in the budget, and in this sense I would like to mention an investment project of importance for all Serbia, which is the construction of a fast track, i.e. a Hungarian-Serbian railway project for which eight billion dinars are foreseen in the 2018 budget of the Republic of Serbia. The implementation of this project was launched last year when a commercial contract was signed in Latvia at the Central Summit of the Heads of the Government of China and 16 Central and Eastern European countries, in the presence of Serbian Prime Minister Alexander Vucic and China Li Kecanga, to build the first section of the Belgrade Fast Line – Budapest, as well as a Memorandum on financing the entire project in Serbia's territory with the infrastructure of the Serbian Railways and a consortium of Chinese companies. By signing a commercial contract and a Memorandum of Understanding with the Chinese EXIM bank on loaning the Hungarian-Serbian railway project on Serbia's territory, it is possible to move forward with the construction of a fast track at which it will be up to 200km per hour and which will shorten travel between the Serbian capital and the Hungarian capital for less than three hours. The contract envisions the construction of a two-way line across Belgrade to Stara Paza, 34.5km long and the most important domestic firms can also participate in this up to 46% in the performance of goods and supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28185	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28186	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, my amendment refers to improving the position of the most vulnerable social groups. First of all, I want to point out that in improving the quality of life of the most vulnerable social groups, which includes old, pensioners, persons with disabilities, single mothers, persons unable to work and attract, except for the republican budget, one part of that service is financed from the local budget. In order to improve equal access to social protection services throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the government of Aleksandar Vukic has for the first time defined dedicated transfers for the development of social protection services in those municipalities that are less developed. One of these municipalities is the Municipality of Priboj which has received dedicated funds and has five social protection services for the most vulnerable citizens developed in the territory of the Municipality of Priboj, which are financed, both from the budget of local self-government and from dedicated transfers. Of course, this government is still working to improve the quality of the most vulnerable social groups and SNS supports what dedicated funds for the development of such services are planned for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28187	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to the 7th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28188	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, Article 7. The budget system law speaks and defines the organisation's financial plan for compulsory social security. In fact, all those activities in the areas of social and health care that are not defined and not financed by the republican transfer and budget can be financed if they are adequately planned and implemented in accordance with the Law at the level of local self-government. Also, regarding social health care, the Health Protection Act itself has been defined that at the level of the AP, at the level of the city, or at the level of local self-government, projects that are related to health or social protection that would involve certain groups of the population can be planned and implemented, but certain diseases that are characteristic of a particular region, namely endemic diseases, can also be covered. What I can say about this amendment and about this problem, and about some local level, is that I will give an example to the House of Health of Prokuplje, where the project "Help in the House" is funded, is essentially about one geronto project, a project to help old people, and I would say of one, a very noble project. Also financed is the stay of children with special needs in the daily room "Sun". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28189	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the MP Ljiljana Malusic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Ljiljana Malušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28190	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, ladies and gentlemen, my amendment reads – planning, preparation, adoption, implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia. The amendment aims to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia through a legal solution. To strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to have more funding from the budget. For the first time in 20 years, the budget planned the largest increase for the ministry of science and technological development of 21 billion dinars. It's never invested in education and science again. The Serbian Progressive Party invests in building, equipping and renovating schools in the mandatory primary education of the Roma population, which is also foreseen by the Roma-Romanian Social Integration Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2016 to 2020, then, for the introduction of a fifth-grade information school, the introduction of dual education for faster job-finding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28191	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28192	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the function of economic development certainly is Serbia and China's co-operation, whose joint projects are currently worth about six billion dollars. Recently, very important contracts have been signed at the China Summit and 16 Central, Eastern European countries. I would single out Dalekovod Obrenovac – Novi Belgrade. So, a contract was signed on the construction of a warm-dolkovod Obrenovac – Novi Belgrade, and it will certainly be a new, good joint project of Serbian and Chinese companies. The pipeline will be 26km long and the contract is worth 190m euros. Using TENT hot water to heat New Belgrade will save 43m euros annually on imports of gas used by Belgrade's heat plants. For those critics and the former project regime -- what was that saving, what was that? Also, this event signed a commercial agreement on the continuation of the Preljin – Požega highway, which is of paramount importance for us in Zlatiborsko and Moravička County, for the economy and tourism of Zlatiborsko and Moravičko importance. Those who are only disturbed by the charging ramps on that highway should know that as part of the former regime, they were the largest ramp for our country's progress towards a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28193	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28194	Member of the 7th People's Parliament. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System to Article 7 essentially concerns the issues of the fiscal order of the Republic of Serbia because the fiscal order of the Republic of Serbia cannot function unless you have the parameters of fiscal stability, the parameters of macroeconomic stability. Without investment, those two parameters lose every sense. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made it possible for the fiscal consolidation of the previous three years to enter the 2018 budget with never more investment. That's the real development budget. It's not the development budget we've heard in years behind us. When you have 128 billion for capital expenditure, which is 36.1% more than you had in the 2017 budget and when you have in subsidies still around 35 billion, which is a total of 174 billion investments, then it says how much this budget is developmental and how much investment in the public sector primarily helps to develop GDP and GDP growth is based on the personal spending that we raise primarily by increasing public sector wages, by increasing pensions, but at the same time you can't expect GDP to grow without having state investment. With investments of over 170 billion, or 625 billion in the next period of time, which is two, three years, Serbia is creating the right conditions for the development of its economy, growth and development of the economy is essential, and without investment, it certainly is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28195	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28196	I will talk about a problem that is related to this amendment, i.e. about solving the problem of exiled Serbs from Croatian cities. Namely, one of the proofs of the pro-Fustian character of Franjo Tudjman's regime is the fact that Croatian paramilitary formations in particular in 1991 and 1992 were mined in classical terrorist actions by more than 10,000 Serbian houses, locals in dozens of Croatian cities. Known for its evil "cristal night" in Zadar, then the destruction of houses, the mining of Serbian houses in Gospić, Sisak, Karlovac, Osijek, I particularly highlight Bjelovar where more than 600 Serbian houses were mined. Namely, if it were state terrorism, then Deputy Chief of Police Bjelovar, Croatia's Ivan Srnec, an honorable man has ordered an investigation into the mining of Serbian houses in Bjelovar. After a few days, his house was mined. It is the best proof that both the honorable people of Croatian nationality, the police officers could not do their job. Serbs who lost, whose homes and business clubs were torn down under the 180th Croatian law on mandatory, i.e. bond relations began to press charges for damages. They started doing it in 1993 and 1994. Croatian courts have not responded. In 1996, after the war on the initiative of the then state attorney of Croatia, the famous Serbian Seksa Croatian Parliament abolished Article 180, thus preventing Serbs from receiving compensation by court. Unfortunately, a good part of the people has been persuaded by lawyers and are going to sue the state of Croatia and have lost court proceedings. I'm setting an example of only one family, and that's unfortunately thousands of families. Dusan and Ana Kundak, their house in Lipik 200 square square meters and houses in Filip Jakov near Sibenik of 100 square meters. They lost court proceedings before the mayoral court in Bjelovar. Not only did they not receive compensation for the damages, but Dusan and Ana Kundak had to pay 20,000 euros in court costs for the trial for the mini-house in Lipik, and 15 000 euros in court proceedings for the mini-house in Filip Jacob near Sibenik. So, a total of 35,000 euros to pay the court costs, which they dared to sue the Croatian state. This speaks of the character of the Croatian state, which is today an EU member. Dushan and Ani Kundak are being taken away, that is, taken to the end, death by one third of their pensions, and now it's two ruins, a living corpse who can't understand that they can't exercise their rights. Dusan and Ana Kundak hoped they had exhausted all the legal resources in Croatia, so the municipal and county, constitutional, Supreme Court, passed through that they would exercise their rights before the European Court in Strasbourg. Unfortunately, they too experienced great disappointment because the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg has come to a hypocritical point of view. Namely, the court said – all claims coming from Croatia, which are being treated before the ratification of the European Convention on Human Rights in the Croatian Parliament, which was November 1997, the Court will not consider. It turns out that human rights for Serbs in Croatia have only been valid since November 1997, and we know well that everything that happened to Serbs happened until 1995, 1996. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28197	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs George Komlenski, Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28198	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the objective of this amendment is to further encourage poverty reduction in the area of the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution. It is a pleasure that this amendment does not directly refer to how the Republic Government works, but that something like this was installed in the previous period, it would not have happened that the funds that were to be used for development only serve to reduce the poverty of individuals from the top of the "yellow company", i.e. its OUR in Vojvodina. This "yellow company", a thieving organisation, has granted the private company "Garant" for the production of drones and cylinders for engines in Odjac, twice per 300,000 euros from the Regional Fund for Co-financing of New Technologies, to open the plant in the AP Vojvodina. They say the workers who worked in the company failed to screw up 50 screws, and that the company was immediately after taking pictures for multiple television teams and closed multiple times. In Odzac today, there is no company, no employees, the boss still owes 20 more salaries to the workers, so other than these 600,000 euros that ended up obviously in the pockets of the owner of the "yellow company", they have further povertyed these workers who have not paid their profits. The fraud in Odzac clearly shows that all 35m euros have disappeared, apparently shared by Pajtic and his "yellow company" click, as this fund was robbed, and TV footage shows that Pajtic and his right-hand man, Petrovic, have been consciously involved in the fraud. There was no new technology there, it was used machines, probably from the last century, if they weren't from the 19th century. Therefore, gentlemen of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, I ask you to process this and to return at least some of the money back to the Republic of Serbia's budget, in order to reduce poverty even more and make it easier for the republic's government to reduce poverty in the Republic of Serbia as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28199	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28200	Thank you, Your Honor. This is another amendment of ours, the MPs of the "focal group". The objectives of sustainable development, 17 of them are designed to cover all three pillars of sustainable development – economics, society and the environment. The objectives of sustainable development are already being implemented in the work. So today our president, our state of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, is at the Paris Summit on Climate, which is one of the pillars of sustainable environmental development. I am proud to say again that the city of Belgrade is also implementing the goals of sustainable development. What's been promoted over the past three years? For capital investment from the budget 19.51% were allocated in 2017 and nearly 23% were planned for 2018. Then, the social protection system is reformed, social benefits are paid in time and without delay. New services have been introduced in the social security system, services, the child's personal companion, personal assistant services, so I don't forget some, I just have to follow because it's so isolated. Six new retirement clubs have been opened. In co-operation with the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, all social protection facilities on the territory of the municipality Obrenovac, three daily stays for children with development disorders, have been renovated and expanded. By the end of 2017, it was planned to open two new living rooms for children with developmental disturbances in the town municipalities of Sopot, in the village of Ovča. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28201	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28202	Thank you, Chairman. All the amendments I have submitted are aimed at contributing to the fight against corruption and crime, however, we have been listening to opposition MPs today as they are prevented from speaking on the subject of any law, because we have submitted these amendments. First of all, I have to ask the directors, knowing that the direct transmission of this assembly session has been interrupted, to turn the cameras onto the benches of the opposition MPs. You'll notice that 90% of them are not present in the O.R. right now. This is important for the citizens of Serbia who will be watching in some delayed time, to see what it is and how the opposition MPs are fighting for what they have been delegated to here. The comparison works, here's what it looks like today. They can see it based on insight into the benches of the opposition MPs, but also what happened in the past. In the past, the Ukrainian government has formed the Vojvodina Development Bank, you know how it has functioned since 2009-2012, has been capitalized with as many as 15 billion dinars. The billability of its claims will later turn out to be only 20%, which means that these claims were not remunerated. Even then, SNS MPs in the District Assembly warned about the consequences of such a criminal act. Of course, Bojan Pajtic managed to include MPs from the District Assembly in all of this and support the recapitalisation of the Vojvodina Development Bank. We're witnessing how it all ended. What's special about all this is that DS in the same bank and in the pre-election campaign in 2012 took a loan, but also in June of 2012, at 1.4% interest, without absolutely any elements of the loan's security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28203	Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28204	Thank you. When we talk about infrastructure projects, or improving infrastructure development in the republic, two bridges should certainly be highlighted in particular. First of all, the Jell-O Bridge in Novi Sad, which is a railway road bridge that has bridged the Danube. It represents a significant object in international terms, but also a great achievement of our technique. The bridge along two hiking-cycling trails, two road tracks, will have two tracks that trains will be able to develop up to 160 km for passengers and 120 km per hour for freight trains. The Željev Bridge shows the great responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards every infrastructure project, i.e. the seriousness in the realization of all that has been promised to the citizens of Serbia. the value of the investment is about 51m euros. The second bridge on the Drina, between Ljubija and Bratunac, called Bratoljub, is a special symbolism because it merged two shores. Bridges, especially those that bring Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and Serbia and BiH together, provide opportunities for people who aim primarily at peace, stability and better life, and then much better conditions and opportunities for the exchange of knowledge, investment, economic development and tourism. The bridge shortens 50 km of road with Corridor 11 and the port of Bar. The total investment is 13m euros, including the bridge, but also the border crossing. Such realised infrastructure projects, when it comes to bridges, show primarily the country's strength, such as Serbia, to tackle such challenges and to show that on the side of the state's strength and strength of the government and on the financial side, it can bring out such projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28205	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by National MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28206	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Article 7 deletes the conditions which determine the inclusion of capital projects in the priority area of funding, but is already governed by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is extremely important, as it allows for further investment in infrastructure building across the Republic of Serbia in the construction of highways, in our integration with the region, but also in the restoration of existing infrastructure, which is extremely important to us. This is also important from the aspect of investment in the reconstruction of facilities in our schools, health homes, social protection institutions, which is implemented through the funds of the Public Investment Management Office. Only the beginning of this year in Tristenik was approved 50 million for two schools' recovery, and at the end of the year another 70 million for the recovery of the remaining two schools in our municipality. It's extremely important, because these projects refer to the recovery of the entire facility, from floor to ceiling. So, one capital investment, which also enables savings, in terms of energy efficiency. This, of course, concerns social protection institutions and health institutions, which is extremely important, as well as the continuation of infrastructure work itself. I must point out that this same municipality of Trstenik has received 150 million for the restoration of works of the magistrate's path, which will naturally increase the safety of this part of the Foot, but also the construction of a circular current, the first in our municipality, which also affects the security and the very appearance of our municipality. We, by the former government, had invested in an infrastructure project, which involved aquapark. So 120 million dinars were invested in the construction of a park in Triestenik, but what is crucial is that this aquapark is once-in-a-lifetime open, without the permission. So it was opened even though the electrical installations were compromised and water poured on them, so children and all the pool users were at risk. It was important to collect political points with this move. So, not only is it important for the Republic to set priorities in capital projects, it is also important to control their implementation, and I, for this reason, submit an amendment to a more even investment in the whole of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28207	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28208	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, because as I have said many times, the country is really so devastated, that, behold, this government and these MPs who are here, so MPs, first of all, the ruling coalition, are ready to work day and night, and all in order to raise this country to healthy feet and go as we started, means advanced to new victories. What can be seen is that those MPs who today in some afternoon hours, because they now have some more pressing work, are criticising us from the ruling coalition to submit some amendments, they are neither here nor here, will not be in the day to vote, which will probably take a long time, because they are only there to obstruct this work of parliament and nothing else. But I'm surprised we don't even have an opposition anymore, because they don't know what they're talking about anymore. So, here's Sasa Jankovic, former Citizens' Protector, otherwise the well-known Greek in Vienna, says today that elections for local community advice in Krusevec are similar to those in North Korea, according to some condolences. He really loses the compass and reason and talks everything and everything, and he notes that the elections in these municipalities, where they're called, that the SNS has already won by over 70%, which I can see is already that reason preserved, which gives me confirmation that he's aware of the good policy that the SNS is leading, but it's obvious that our opposition is completely broken and they don't know what they're saying anymore, the class says one thing, the hour says another. Again, it gives us all the strength and wind in the back to keep fighting, because we're on our way, as soon as they don't know what they're talking about anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28209	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28210	Development, ladies and gentlemen, which is the subject and this amendment is apparently present in the city of Belgrade. In Belgrade, which not only halved that disastrous debt of billions and 200 million, which was left to him by the yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas, but today has a number of cranes, construction sites, but in its time. If you are wondering, Serbian citizens, with whom the yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas plans to bring Belgrade back to the past, at a time when it was completely destroyed and devastated, the response came today. It is with the people mentioned by Mrs Barisic, so with Dossom Vedeta Vuk Tadic and Sasa Jankovic. Who is still present, besides the fact that Vuk Tadic is known to identify and support each other with those coercionists, the yellow company DS said in its pamphlet that it is fully identified with Sasa Jankovic's association. Otherwise, Sasa Jankovic, who is suspected of telling him everything, followed by people leaving the rally, wrote Slavisa Lekic with Boris Tadic, Boris's party, did not make much of a mistake, Zivkovic, Zoran Zivkovic and Borko Stefanovic, who these days said he preferred to make a government with Albin Kurti. To be clear, who are those people who do not support the development of our capital, but who want to be made of it again by DOS Palanko, citizens of Serbia, citizens of Belgrade will not allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28211	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28212	Thank you, Chairman. It's article 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. It's the same as before, so adding a new attitude, modernizing. Several times already, by explaining the previous amendments, I have cited the reasons why I think modernization is necessary. As the main argument, I find the need for a more efficient and functional public administration, all in order to reduce the abuses we have had. We have already several examples of whether Smederjevske Palanka, whether Vračar municipality, colleagues talked about AP Vojvodina, but what I did not mention is that it is only in the Vračar business space, while the yellows managed the municipality, the business space fund literally halved. Until there's no record of where they're missing from for 5,354 squares. Where did 5,354 squares go? There are many examples of how they did business. For example, three clubs from the Public Enterprise Fund, a total area of 186 squares, exchanges for two smaller total areas of 73 squares, of which only one takes over and less than 28 squares, and the other one never takes over. That's one example from 2005. There are many such examples, and as one of my colleagues said – either, it did not happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28213	On the 8th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojic, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojić, Nikola Savinović, Filip Stojanović and Marina Ristić and the National MP Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28214	Here, after a year, we're changing Article 56a, which was installed a year ago, refers to a forced payment. What this bill requires is for a new position to be introduced 9, so that all the restrictions on forced collection are extended to compulsory insurance organisations as well. Last year, however, when this member was entered, a truly essential feller appeared. What's this about? An emergency payment order is issued by the National Bank of Serbia through its department, but the order is carried out by the Treasury Administration, because it accounts for, directly, indirect beneficiaries of budget funds. Last year we said, and now we repeat, with this kind of limitation, you can only go when it comes to means of purpose, when it comes to budgetary funds, which should be protected from forced payment, and when it comes to other means, this protection and this restriction must not be extended, because it is a fundamental principle, and the World Bank principle. It's a contract. It's a contract law. What if it does not meet the contractual obligation of the beneficiary of the budget towards a company? Then how do you charge? He gets a warrant from the National Bank of Kragujevac, he gets to the vault, and the Treasury doesn't want to execute it. This should be viewed slightly differently, that even when a state enters into certain obligations of contractual nature, whether or not it creates a commitment by implementing some law where individuals also appear as users of certain services or certain rights, that it plans its obligations in time, not by means of one restrictive planning or limited means, along with these restrictions set out in Article 56a, practically disabling the National Bank's order on forced collection.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28215	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28216	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm concerned about the absence of the opposition's actions. I hope they don't have any of Pavlovic's arrangements, so I'll cut it short just in case. So if someone like us expects that part of the opposition, while we're doing good, to remove the stones from our path, then we're wrong. That part of the opposition that isn't here right now, we can only expect them to be here while we work hard to get some stone on our way. So much for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28217	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28218	Just to explain what the intention was in changing this member. So there are a few small changes. One is to specify instead of five days - five working days to collect. That's what we wanted to extend the deadline, so it doesn't turn on the weekend. It seems clear to me, without an explanation. Second, in the next paragraph, the original last paragraph adds two places to the syntagma, i.e. local authorities. Since we want these same provisions to apply to, there were only direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgets before, and local authorities are added here. And in the last sentence, added as a new paragraph, it is said – the provisions of this article are applied accordingly to the users of the organisation's means of compulsory social security. Those before were not covered by this law and we were overwhelmed by the demands to give an opinion when there was an enforcement order relating to the funds. So we wanted to put them in the same situation and that they were equally responsible to all processes. In other words, as the court finds in favor of a user, that forced payment can be made and from the accounts of funds that are otherwise not subject to, or executed through the vault, or subject to our control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28219	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28220	Just for a little while. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was already talking today about the devastating consequences of Serbia's military and the defence system of this country left by former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac. That's the testimony and the dispatches published by WikiLeaks. For example, in 2007, the then US ambassador to Belgrade, Mr. Mother Poult, sent a deputy State Department, which said, among other things, that Dragan Sutanovac told him that his mission, I quote, is to prepare Serbian armed forces to join NATO, that he is watching as defence minister about 200 active members of the MUP, in which he says he has no confidence because they have been shaped by Kosovo's experiences. In other words, it is a man who has openly worked for the interests of foreign states and foreign military alliances, and who, in his own words, did not trust members of the military and police who defended the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija during the armed acts in 1998 and 1999. I sincerely hope that such ministers, the bad defence ministers in the Serbian government will never be again. Once again, support for the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the funds defined by the Ministry of Defence for 2018.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28221	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28222	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the constant need and desire for the judicial system to be only better. I cannot say that the government of the Republic of Serbia did not further force me to submit this amendment by mentioning local self-government. I come from Nis and I have to mention the influential people from that local self-government who played a significant role in the infamous judicial reform. We have, for example, a lawyer from Nis who was then chosen in a completely illegal manner as a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, solely thanks to the political pressure that the ruling Democratic Party was doing at the time. Another Nishli who pulled the strings in the judiciary was also a lawyer, as well as the chairman of the Assembly's Justice Committee, and did not hesitate to use his political influence as much as possible so as not to put judicial authority exclusively under the control of the Democratic Party. He had the opportunity to fire more than 700 judges and no one could become a judge without his will. It is also known for coordinating the new composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, so that it becomes a member of the body itself. Unfortunately, such personnel led the judiciary at the time of the Democratic Party's power. Today, citizens finally have a judicial system in which they can trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28223	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Mitchin, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28224	I thank you, Chairman. The budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2018 has planned 15 billion dinars for economic subsidies, and there are incentives for investors. In the principle debate, however, we could hear criticisms from individual opposition MPs over these kinds of investors' incentives, but these criticisms are truly unwarranted. Because, according to an analysis done by the World Bank for the Internal Needs of the Ministry of Economy, which monitored 30 projects for the period from October 2015 to January 2017, the subsidized companies brought 340m euros worth of investment and employed 21,276 workers. Net wages range from 504 euros in SR Technix, up to 183 euros in Aster textiles. The state has fuelled these 30 companies with a total of 125.4m euros. It is 5,898 euros on average per newly opened job. The business analysis concluded that the total amount of expected public revenues was 512m euros and 4.08 times the total appropriations for projects in the observed period. Also expected time to return incentives through public revenues is 14.07 months, which shows the justification of these budget planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28225	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28226	Thank you. Unlike the Democratic Party, which led the devastating economic policy and the Republic of Serbia and its citizens to the edge of the ambience, we can today say that the Republic of Serbia is an economically healthy country. Apart from the devastating economic policy, the Democratic Party of Serbia has led a devastating demographic policy, and in the past ten years, the Republic of Serbia has lost just over 37,000 inhabitants, the size of Prepolje or another city. The government runs a responsible demographic policy, and a ministry dealing with demographic and population policy has been formed in this sense. It's a multidisciplinary approach, but I want to point out that this government has been responsible for both demographics and natalities for this year defined 600 million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28227	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to the 8th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28228	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, therefore a good part of the budget, i.e. a good part of the transfer to local self-government by the Republic of Serbia is spent on health care. Under the current Health Protection Act, primary health care, i.e. founding first in institutions of appropriate health care belong to local self-governments. What is particularly important in the course of above all work and functioning at the level of the Ministry of Health, these are norms, strict normatives, human resources, is one fact that despite the normatives which, despite certain health institutions of primary health care where the founding rights have local self-government, where the number of health workers is above the normative, local self-government has the possibility and has the right to finance personnel from its own resources. In this way, local self-government primarily finances salaries of employees, salary allowances, other contributions and benefits under the law, or collective agreement, as well as contributions to compulsory social security. In the municipality of Prokuplje, several doctors and nurses working within certain rural hospitals are financed from the local budget, which is very far away from the reason why the municipality is very dissociated. In this way, I find local self-government primarily responsible, social and health responsible, to behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28229	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Does anyone want a word? Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28230	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment reads: "Planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia". The amendment aims to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia through a legal solution. Imagine how much money could have been invested in education that the yellow company spent less money on trips, expensive properties, luxury cars, wintering and world destinations. In contrast, this draft budget will invest more than 700 million dinars to build new buildings for the development of technology and science, for technology parks, additional buildings of the Science and Technology Park in Nis, additional buildings of the Institute of Physics. The budget we propose provides 3.3 billion for the modernisation of primary and secondary schools infrastructure. Now, this is how the government of the Republic of Serbia works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28231	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28232	I spoke of significant investments in culture after many years. Also, I would also like to mention briefly about the reform of education that has been launched and the significant budgetary resources that have been identified as being used to increase employees' salaries, both for the only dual education that I believe will give us a significant result very quickly in the economic parameters themselves. It's a shame there aren't any MPs here, they're probably sufficiently educated, as they claim, and maybe we can read about culture on their Twitter accounts. They write all kinds of things there, mostly false. Come on, Jankovic's gone, but there are some who can come in here and lead the controversy with us. Well, I would suggest that Saša Jankovic and Saša Radulovic be an anthem of joint action – tweeting my buddy, tweeting, and I, both of us have been seduced by the embassy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28233	National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 8th amendment. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28234	The result of fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic stability is not only the growth of public sector salaries, it is not only pension growth, but also the tax relief that the state of Serbia has for the first time introduced in its history. In 2015, we promised, when we get into a situation where we don't have a fiscal deficit, we come to this opportunity to start discharging the revenue side of the budget, or to reduce our labour tax, and we do it in three levels in this Budgetary System Act. First of all, we increase the tax share of the profits from 11.740 to 15,000, which is a significant discharge. At the same time, we continue with the programme that we had so that the maximum possible amount to be paid on the basis of compulsory health and pension insurance is 25%, and 75% is a reduction and for the first time in Serbia's history we introduce a exemption from any tax pay over a two-year period. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28235	The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 8th Amendment. Here you go, Comrade Linta.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28236	During the war, Croatia was kidnapped through contracts, under pressures and threats and through pre-negotiations of about 10,000 Serbian houses. I will give only one example of a family of Momčal and Mirjana Tomašević who had a large house in Vodice near Sibenik and who were forced to replace their house with a Croatian from Kninski Pola Branko Maric because of the pressures and threats and fear of their safety. A pre-contract was signed that could not produce any legal effects. It has been said that everyone will be in someone else's house until the war is over. In 1994, however, Branko Maric initiated a court case, signed up as the owner of the Serbian house in Vodice, Mirjana and Momcilo Tomasevic tried 20 years in court to return their house. Unfortunately, the Croatian judiciary of the County Court in Zadar, via the Supreme Court, refused their fight for their house. It is only one in a series of evidence of kidnapping, i.e. legalising the ethnic cleansing of half a million Serbs from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28237	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs George Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Komlenski has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28238	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the objective of this amendment is to further encourage poverty reduction in the area of the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution. This planning of the use of budget funds and the planning for the budgetary system to be in the post of poverty reduction has shown its good side in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The same should be applied in the territory of the province of Vojvodina where the yellow enterprise used funds intended to reduce poverty by 2016. One of these abuses is the debauchery of funds allocated from the budget for public works on the territory of Vojvodina. Even 22 associations whose legal representations were members of the DS won 26 million dinars. It is not disputed that everyone can participate in this, but the likelihood that there was no debacle here exclusively for party reasons and that the money did not go to the wrong purposes, and not to poverty reduction, says this number of 22 indisputable DS members who received this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28239	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vujadinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28240	Thank you, Chairman. I'll do my best as soon as I can, I think we've said a lot of things today. They say that crime and corruption know neither religion, nor nation, nor borders, nor skin color, and apparently neither the material status of any man. For this example, the DS spent up to 16 years, up until last year, in the AP Vojvodina from that unfortunate Capital Investment Fund a million and a half euros for the construction of the Hetherland Castle, i.e. home to children for developmental disturbances. In addition, it should have brought new 50 jobs for locals where the home was to be built. We didn't see that money, we didn't see that home, or when the locals saw the jobs that were scheduled in that children's home. This is still the subject of the investigation of the competent authorities today, and we hope that they will finally trace that money, and those responsible end up in the place where it is intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28241	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28242	I thank the chairman. Serbia is a major construction site and it is clear to all and all those who have spoken with disdain, cynicism and malice about the successes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are no longer worth commenting on. Serbia is becoming a network of corridors both in road and rail transport and a whole series of investments and projects carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are clearly talking about the fiscal stability of the Republic of Serbia. If we mention the corridors of Nis-Medara, Corridor 10, the reconstruction of the house in the King, the Belgrade-Budapest railway, Belgrade-South Adriatic, bridges: "The Iron", "Bratoljub", the Moravski Corridor, the highway of Novi Sad-Rum, Ruma-Shabac, the fast traffic station of Shabac-Loznica, a tour around Belgrade and a large number of local roads and railways that are being reconstructed, then it is clear that this government is leading a responsible policy towards the citizens of Serbia, and that is clear to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28243	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. Here you go, fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28244	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. The law on the budgetary system is aimed at a flat investment in all parts of the Republic of Serbia. In the previous period, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and only the Ministry really showed responsibility in terms of the equipment of health institutions and institutions intended to provide social protection services, police stations and we could see for ourselves in the previous months, when all the homes of health were equipped with sanities, i.e. mini hospitals, practically. These funds were collected from the delay of criminal prosecution and this is a joint project by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health. Social work centres are also equipped with cars, to make it more efficient and easier to reach all its users. Police stations are also equipped in every district, in every city and municipality, for more efficient work and this amendment is precisely aimed at further investment even across Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28245	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28246	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted to Article 8 of the amendment in order to improve the functioning and empowerment of the health system, and we must admit that much has been done in the previous period. On this occasion, I just want to remind myself that we were also thinking about the future, first of all, and about the talent and that we also brought good reform requirements in the previous period to this end. Since 1 January and 2016, epidural anaesthesia has been applied free of charge for maternity care, I must remind you that this was not the case before. Also, since June 2016, a third attempt to biomedically aided insemination on the cost of RFZO has been financed. It means that we are thinking of increasing the birth rate and, of course, that the future of our children is better, so I call once again on all the MPs to support this law fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28247	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28248	Thank you. The development, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which is the subject and this amendment is really very clearly seen in the work in our capital, in the city of Belgrade. And this development, of course, is a natural consequence of serious and responsible behaviour, domestic behaviour, which can be seen among other things through the work of municipal enterprises. Today, these companies are working successfully, doing well, which of course cannot compare with the previous period when the city was lit and burned by the yellow tycoon Gilas Dragan and when these same companies worked with a loss of over two billion dinars. Who today, along with the yellow tycoon, Gilas Dragan, dreams of returning Belgrade to the dark again by 2012, that is, the period when the yellow company destroyed everything that touched together. Well, all those who belong to all these branches, branches and other sub-warrants of the yellow company and dosovite Sasa Jankovic and Vuk Tadic Jeremic who today have been born to co-operate with Djilas and his errandman Šapić, but also others with whom they identify, and there are Boris Tadic and Zoran Zivkovic, Dragan Sutanovac, of course, the dvoras of the thugs and their pedestrians, and it would be nice to have all of you together respecting the people, the dosmanlists are all alike, not forgetting and the association of citizens of Sasa Radulovic. I'm sure their extraordinary knowledge of music art and film art will be very good for them. That these people don't make Belgrade dos pancakes again, I'm sure the residents of the capital won't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28249	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here's a colleague of Markovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28250	Thank you, Chairman. Article 8. The bill, therefore the same amendment as the previous member, the same argument that we do not read. Thus, the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, the need for modernisation, and all in order to be more functional and efficient administrations, but also more functional and efficient local self-government. So, just before we had some bad examples of Vračar municipality, we heard it was in 2005, but in 2006, we have an even worse example. The same is true in the public business business space of Vračar when it is excluded from the fund from the 56 square squares local area to be exchanged for a 33 squares area in a newly built future facility. It was done in principle, I give you a 56-square-square-square bar right now, and sometimes, somewhere, maybe a 33-square-square-square-place. To make things worse, the realisation has never been done, because the buyer, or investor, has never joined the destruction of the old and the construction of the new facility, but has sold the object to a third person for 80,000 euros and nothing to anyone. So it was another example that spoke of how the yellows led the Municipality of Vrač. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28251	Thank you. On the 9th amendment in the same text, the MPs together Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojić, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojić, Nikola Savić, Filip Stojanović and Marina Ristić, MP Dejan Šukić, together Marko Đurisić, Nenad Konstavić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, MP Aleksandra Jerkov and MP Balša Bozović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28252	Article 9 with which the corresponding amendments are made in Article 61 are made. The budget system law, at first glance, seems to be modest, as it only changes percentages, so what was up to five changes is to be up to 10% in the organisation of compulsory insurance when it comes to health care costs and over 10%. We asked for an amendment to erase this because, but not to go into all these little details about this, but the point is the next one. If there is a real need to change, some change in some appraisal, the direct beneficiary of the budget, with the consent of the ministry, can make an appropriate change. See how pointless this looks in the case of, say, the 2018 budget. As a direct beneficiary of the budget, it is mentioned, say, the cabinet. Here, to take the cabinet of ministers without portfolios in charge of regional development and public enterprises, 850 million dinars are planned. If any changes were to occur, some need for some appraisal to change, so far there has been a limit of up to five percent, with the finance ministry's consent, and now it's up to ten percent. Then the question is, what about the seriousness of the budget? What about the responsibility of those in charge of the budget? What about the responsibility of those in charge of budget planning? As a rule, when there are many major deviations in some of these appraisals, there is a budget rebalance, regardless of the reasons for its increase or reduction in dependence on inflows or outflows of funds. I believe that increasing this limit to 10% increases discretion in direct beneficiaries of budgets. Although I don't understand how the cabinet could have been a direct beneficiary of the budget, when the cabinet by law was neither a government authority nor a special organisation. How did you guys do it in this draft budget law for 2018 will be interesting. For the sake of full information, I just have to say that this intervention refers to general receipts that are regulated by the Budget Law, and not to those that are, let me say the dedicated incomes that come from other funds, and in this way there is obviously some fear when it comes to the EU and when their funds are rerouted through direct beneficiaries of budgetary resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28253	On Article 9 of the amendment in the same text. Just a little bit, Mr. Minister. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28254	I just want to explain for a little while. This does not apply to the total amount of that division, but to the appraisals within it. So what is allowed was the previous year allowed as part of a member explaining programming. It was allowed exclusively up to 10%, given the number of demands we receive and the need for responsibility to actually be strengthened by the fact that the ministries themselves planing errors ironing on these small changes among the divisions, staying within the appraisal, i.e. division of the entire ministry, or cabinet, or any user. We believe that there is a need for a higher level of responsibility to be transferred to users and, of course, to maintain control so that there is no abuse, any abuse. We are in a situation where it is almost impossible to plan very precise parts of it. I'll give you examples. In projects of various kinds, they are in a situation that they cannot plan exactly how much resources will be, for example, on construction works, on equipment, on computers, on programs, etc., and then we have to intervene and change these appraisals, although the total value of the project does not change. So that's the purpose of this to facilitate the implementation of the budget and not to complicate the reallocation of the funds that remain within the frameworks. Therefore, it is not about budget rebalancing, it remains within the same allocations, the same funds at some level of integration. Thank you. (Zoran Krasic: He replied to me, the minister was wrong. I have to explain. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28255	You have no right to the replica of your colleague Krasic. Well, he was answering to you. And the minister was wrong, all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28256	I have to explain. Take Article 5. Proposal for a budget law for 2018 and get an appropriate member of the Budget Act for 2017, so see where your capital expenditures are, where these are your capital projects. In the good part, they repeat themselves. Why? Because it shows up three years old. Right? So when you look at what happened last year in 2017, it was said that in 2018 you will see a huge discrepancy from the ministry to the ministry. If anyone knows he's working on a programming budget, let him do the programming budget, but don't hide behind the change in the amount of the appraisal. And the other thing is, you need to change that provision of capital investment laws, capital projects. That's where you put the construction facilities, the expropriation, the land, etc., so you put the machines and the equipment. Please distinguish. Delimit current maintenance, what investment maintenance is, what are classic capital projects with real estate, and what is a tiny inventory, what are machines, what are computers. They're cheating on you. They're also putting computers into your capital projects. I'm saying this because of you, because tomorrow someone's going to open these books. This debate today is fantastic. You know why? Because it remains a stenogram. And each slave is the word he said in this room, whether or not he did today 20 years ago. Someone will read these stenograms, and tomorrow they will call you what you said, what you did, what you promised, how you acted. Take care of it. I'm saying this for you. I'm not saying this for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28257	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28258	I thank you, honestly, and believe that these warnings are from your heart and good intentions. I'm trying to be what I really think and what we can maintain. I just want to say that this isn't a fundamental change, compared to what it said last year. So, an extremely in Article 18 last year was written – extremely from Article 12(1) of this Act in 2015, 2016 and 2017, so three years ago – the re-routing of the apropriety can be done at up to 10% of the value of the aproprietation whose assets are being reduced. So, in other words, you can't change the level of resources at the level of division, but you can change the resources between computers, equipment, buildings, etc. Since no one manages to say so precisely, and any excess outside requires special consent or intervention over the current budget reserve. We just don't want to get involved in small changes that the ministry or any other beneficiary of the budget can do on his own account and file a request and get the ministry's consent and then do it in the report, the report said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28259	Member of the 9th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28260	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Ministers, this member speaks of the organisation for compulsory social security, following the decision of the director of the organization, being able to reroute the proportions granted on behalf of a given expenditure, expenditure of up to 10%, and more than 10% for health care costs. That also applies to combatants involved in this war. After sending me 40 messages that they were horrified by today's statement by Mr. Balša Bozovic and by Mr. Kenojcic's statement that they are guilty of war and the ruling coalition. I ask them, these two, never in this high house to say it, for they will face a terrible truth. Dear fighters, may these two quotes comfort you. The first was said in the year 17.5.1999, and I quote: “Yugoslavia must be bombed. Just keep bombing, they'll drop." ‘Der Spigl’ number 20/1999, as spoken 17.5. The second quote, issued on 9.5.1999, and I quote: "Do not sign any agreements on the end of the bombing, because this allows Milosevic to be held in power", the German newspaper "Rincantung". Dear People's MPs, I am happy that my party president Vojislav Seselj, when I was not saying this. I am happy that my party president Tomislav Nikolic did not say this. I'm happy my party president, Alexander Vukic, didn't say this. This is what their party president said and let them never take me by my tongue again, because they will face a terrible statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28261	Mr. Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28262	Only Rats are missing here, you know. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is about rerouting the appraisal, a percentage of 5, 10%. Speaking of percentages, these percentage masters, for personal percentages, obviously have some arrangement. Anyone with whom St. Peter knew probably Pavlovic knows best. Ladies and gentlemen, for which percent of the real Sutanovac, in Nigeria, had that fake, Nigerian better pass, had a fake Shutanovite, and we had the right one, for which percent the real grabper sold tanks T72, T55, etc., for four to ten thousand dollars. For which percentage is this real Sutanovac, because Nigeria was luckier, had false, sold and destroyed M2 arrows for 250 euros when they cost 10,000, so when you multiply it by 1,000, 2,000 pieces, you get damages of 20, 30 or 40 million euros. What money did he destroy and sell boats for? What percentage of this kid's kidnapper managed to alienate 1,100 or 1,200 anti-aircraft cannons? That should be determined by the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28263	Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the spirit of today's discussion, I will only remind myself that we had a man for the defence minister who claimed that, quote him, "Kosovo and Metohija were essentially lost, because we responded with tanks to the desire of Albanians for autonomy and equality." We had as defence minister a man who boasted and wrote in his biography before he was elected minister in 2007, that he had completed an intelligence course at the Marshall Centre in Garmis-Partnerkirhen, that on the issue of journalists about the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Sutanovac said – Preambula does not respect the real state of things on the ground, and we have to deal with politics as a skill possible. You have as many quotes as you want. It is indeed an honor and pleasure for me and I would like to thank all the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, all MPs of the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasant Party and the United Peasant Party of Serbia and all other colleagues who make up the assembly majority and support the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which today heroically defended the amendments. These are not amendments against the Government of the Republic of Serbia, these are amendments that affirm our common policy, both the parliamentary majority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is that the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, in all areas of social life, are moving forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28265	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from her colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28266	Thank you, Chairman. Respected members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the most important strategic objectives in judicial reform by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the discharging of courts, speeding up procedures and informing citizens about the different possibilities for achieving their rights and different options for dispute resolution. The ministry of justice seeks to bring justice closer to the citizens, provide equal treatment, and above all by speeding up court proceedings and the more relaxed work of the courts. The ultimate goal is to improve legal certainty, quality and efficiency of judicial proceedings, to resolve court disputes more effectively. A better financial base will only contribute to a faster achievement of the objectives set by the ministry of justice. On the other hand, work should continue to improve judicial infrastructure. We have the Court of Justice in Belgrade and Kragujevac, the Business and Violent Court building in Nis, the addition of the Basic and Higher Court in Novi Sad and the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. This reduces municipal costs and maintenance costs, as well as expenditure on accompanying staff. In this way, the additional resources provided for by the adoption of this amendment could be used for some other areas under the judicial system. These resources could be used to implement the measures provided for in the Action Plan for Chapter 23, necessary training, modernisation and digitisation of the judiciary and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-12-0.u28267	Thank you. This discussion would be over with today's work. We will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m., and according to the amendment to article 9, which was submitted by MP Zarko Micin.
