ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Session this year. Before we begin our work, I ask that we determine the number of Members of the Parliament present in the O.R. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 89 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we have working conditions. Today they are prevented from attending: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović and Gordana Komic. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 42 of the agenda. Did any of the other authorities who didn't have time to speak yesterday want a word? The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. I'm asking all of you to sign up for your remaining clearance, so I know I'm planning a session. I'll think no one will, we'll move on if you don't sign up. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15626	Thank you. The Honorable President, respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SDPS will focus on the bill's proposals and those solutions, especially regarding the development of our country's economy, and my discussion will focus on the debt, therefore, of 200m euros in debt to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. My discussion will be focused on telling the facts about this borrowing, which was said last night by my distinguished colleague Aleksandar Martinovic, and to show the citizens of the Republic of Serbia how important it is for reforms in our country to be implemented in the best possible, most qualitative and fastest way. What is a fact is that our country finally stopped borrowing last year, the fact is that in 2016 we had a 24.8 billion-euro debt, today it is 24.1 billion euros and that we have reduced the debt rate, when it comes to our country's debt relative to the gross domestic product, from 74% to 68%. There is no other way to assess the views that are completely different from what we discussed and discussed yesterday on the Finance Committee, the budget and the control of public spending with members and representatives of the Ministry of Finance who presented us with these clear facts that our country has ceased to be in debt, to reduce public debt, but also, most importantly, for the citizens of our country, to enter new investments, to create a completely new quality and favourable environment for foreign investors, but also for the development of domestic investors, for new investments, private initiatives and strengthening domestic private enterprise. Therefore, I must also mention this fact and to boast that yesterday, the Ministry of Business in the Government of the Republic of Serbia signed a new line agreement with the European Commission, namely a 200m-euro credit line, which will be aimed at favourable lending to the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The funds will cover over 4.5 thousand enterprises. The point is that in our country, more companies, small, medium and large are opened every year than are closed and such a trend is 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, but also this 2017. For the sake of truth, because of everything the government and parliamentary majority are doing here, I have to point out that in 2012, we had a 26.4% unemployment, that our public debt was as much as 75% of gross domestic product, that our fiscal deficit threatened to be over 8%. So the country's economy was in complete ruin. Now that fiscal deficit is below 2%, we stop borrowing and, most importantly for our citizens, in 2016 we have over two billion euros in foreign investment and we have many more open micro, small and medium-sized enterprises than in the past period, so last year. These are the only facts, and that is the only truth, thanks to the work, thanks to the vision of the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the prime minister and elected President, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. Of course, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support such a plan, support such reforms, given that the conditio son quo non of our policy as a party to the social democratic province is a job, that the essence of our policy is that our unemployment rate in our country is as it is in the modern and developed EU countries, given that our country's strategic goal is Serbia's integration into the EU and that is exactly not to become members, but because of our citizens, because of their well-being, because of their better lives we will strive, primarily to make such an economic environment to reform our public sector, our public administration that will be in the best possible service of private initiative and private investment, which will be responsible to employ our citizens in our period. There's a solution for young people. There is a solution that so many young people who, in the previous period, began to leave our country, who at one point, whose unemployment was more than 40%, and now on about 25%, are the solutions that they stay here and work with honor and a decent way of doing their jobs, move their businesses and live from their work, out of their knowledge, from their skills, including, of course, the parallel process of developing and investing in education, investing in science, investing in all those sectors of social life that are important, to help the economy at all, to help our country in every way, but also politically, better develop, to become a more competitive and to become a modern country according to what we have, in accordance with our resources, primarily human, material and natural resources. I must mention that this loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is only a 2011 loan reprogramme, but not just a reprogramme, this loan was taken at an interest rate of 7.5%, as many loans were made at the time. You can only imagine how difficult it is for a company on the market to be in debt with a bank on the free market and to return 7.5% of the interest rate. Now it's an interest rate of 2.2% and all the colleagues in the position and opposition know how much we've done to convert dollar loans and how much we've done to make that so-called. A credit rollover to do what – to reduce our country's debt and to reduce the debt of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to open up a space for new investments, to open up a space for infrastructure works, to cross our country through highways, to open our tourism market, new investments, factories, production plants. There is a clear vision of the government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to economic development. That's right, and you know it well. As for the money that will be directed into the financial consolidation of public enterprises, such as Elektroprivreda, Serbiagas, the Railways of Serbia and others, well, of course we have to invest money in these companies, because if we want strategic partnerships, if we want to make the big but best, best-quality foreign investors as strategic partners of these large companies, we have to restructure these companies. We must make these companies function in accordance with corporate conditions, in accordance with market conditions and, of course, for the best possible benefit of citizens to have quality and security of supply both with electricity, with gas and with all the other aspects we need to develop our economy and in order for our citizens to have the best possible service by these companies. What I have to mention, and what's been the subject and almost every session is the topic of discussion and populism in the speeches of certain colleagues, it's a relationship with international organisations and institutions. A colleague, Martinovic, mentioned that the IMF was expelled in 2011. I don't think he's been expelled, I think they ran off with their heads no matter what, just because we weren't a credible partner, and just because we didn't follow clear agreements and plans that our country should look like in a long-term, therefore, period of five, ten, or fifteen years. I'll just mention that for any job, for any loan, for any investment, every serious big investor who's interested in coming here, to invest money, to open new jobs, the first thing he asks is, and the first thing he looks at, is our country, what is our country's credit rating. How are we doing on the Dujing Business List of the World Bank? What arrangement do we have with the IMF? Is that showing our country's credibility? Well, when we ratified a deal with the United Arab Emirates, a billion-dollar loan that was given to us under the most favourable conditions we could have, with a grace period of ten years, with two percent interest rate. I will remind my colleagues that in one part of the contract, therefore, at the end of the contract, it was written to grant the loan, in order to grant those funds to a country that would withdraw that loan from the sea and should have an arrangement with the IMF because it is security, because it is an indicator of a clear and credible pathway of a country and its economic policy. We are in a situation today that almost every week our partners from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, from the World Bank, with new projects, with new ideas, because they want to work with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, want to work with our institutions because they understood and saw on the ground that we want reforms to implement in full capacity, that we want to create a competitive market economy in which companies in which they operate will have the best possible conditions. I fully support what the prime minister said in his speech a few days ago, which is that it will look at the possibility of cutting taxes on employee earnings to relax the economy and to open up the possibility of new employment, to reduce the grey economy. Now, this is the result of this clear fiscal consolidation, good macroeconomic policy, good macroeconomic and overall stability in our country. It opens up a space for development now. It opens up space for new projects. This opens up the space for us to invest in infrastructure projects, and to focus on the development of micro-small and medium-sized enterprises that make up 98% of our businesses that employ over 500 000 people, and we will certainly succeed in many sectors. I will especially mention the IT sector that I'm sure will experience in the next few years, but we need the support of the Ministry of Education, and we need the support of both the chambers of commerce and the businesses themselves to make good conditions that we have as many educated people as possible, so educated people, people with skills that can do this job, who can work in the IT industry, who can make a profit in our country. What is the essence of our policy is that we make the most of it, so we relax the economy with the intrusions and we work for the next period of a year to reduce parafiscal burdens so that the economy in the right sense can breathe and get to that magical percentage of unemployment, so below 10 percent. Let me remind you, the unemployment rate in our country is now somewhere according to statistics somewhere around 13.3% or 13.5%. I'll just say that, when it comes to this loan, we have a 19.5-year grace period and we have a small interest rate and we have the opportunity to focus this money in one real way, in an additional public administration reform, in a public administration reform that is very important and to make such a public administration that will be the best possible service for citizens, in addition to citizens and business entities and private initiatives in the Republic of Serbia. We need to submit everything to that. We need to order that we have larger exports and that every day we have dozens of new small private companies that will hire the drivers of this job, who will hire their families and that will provide long-term jobs, which will ensure our country's competitiveness and, of course, ensure well-being. It's that road that is the way SDPS like, I'm free to say, and perhaps the only party that makes heritage a social democratic value. To create such a cake, to create such economic growth, because today we have a gross domestic product of 36 billion euros and to get to 60 billion so that we can make and agree on a real redistribution of that GDP and that we can, in the most responsible and best possible way, take care of our citizens who can't make money on the market, realize and implement that social component of our policy, which we are now trying to be sustainable and quality. To invest more money in health care, in culture, in sport, in all other segments of our social life, as it belongs to us, to become an economically strong country, an economic hub in this region, an economic leader, which in any case we have all the conditions. We have all the leaders, which is the most important thing that will be able to realize all these plans anyway. We put a little bit of history aside, we do a little less history, and the more we do the future, the more we do leadership for our citizens, their lives, their jobs. What is very important in the 21st century, the quality of their lives and dignity. Just a few more words about the amendments and additions to the Justice Act. All these amendments that have been introduced into this law are fully acceptable and, of course, we will support these amendments to the law, when it comes to extending the mandate of judges and presidents, in order to maintain their continuity of work and to maintain a clear and good and high-quality level of efficiency and efficiency of the work of courts, which is one of the objectives of both the Government and the parliamentary majority to make through the efficient work of the courts, the good judiciary, the rule of law, another better framework for economic development and every other development of social life in our country. That's why this is important, and of course we will support these proposals in the voting day. It remains for us to continue to work, discuss, of course, with our opposition colleagues on reform laws, make our reforms even stronger and faster, and make the lives of Serbian citizens much better and better than it was in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15627	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15628	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers and representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. During yesterday's debate in this building, we had the opportunity to hear from the authorised representatives of opposition MPs' groups remarks that parliamentaryism is not respected in Serbia, as well as to hear demands for respect of the Parliament's institution's dignity. It would all be nice if it didn't come out of the mouth of those who were part of the national coup 17 years ago, where this building was robbed and burned and not just this building. All this would be nice if it didn't come out of the mouth of those who have trampled on all the principles of democracy and parliamentaryism in this house for more than a decade, thinking they would rule forever. These same, later ingenuity, enriched, shamelessly mentioned yesterday the reform of justice and the rule of law and independent justice as if they were never part of the congregation's majority, which, just over seven years ago, carried out the scariest cleanup...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15629	Go on, buddy. Wait, I'm sorry, change the electronic unit, since it's broken, obviously. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15630	The Serbian judiciary's decision left out more than 1,000 people whose knowledge and experience has been invested for decades, more than thousands of honest judges and prosecutors have been publicly disgraced and branded as unruly, incompetent, corrupt and unworthy of judicial or prosecutorial functions, for only one reason, because they did not agree to be blind listeners to the then government. None of those who spoke yesterday then rebelled and none of them mentioned the rule of law or the independent judiciary or the dignity of those people, since all they cared about was personal interest. No one has rebelled by seeing them muddy and demeaning honest people. None of them thought to say at least one word and try to stop that madness and that shameless lynch and persecution. Not only was a shameful and illegal judicial cleaning done at the time, but a network of courts was created that was completely dysfunctional and had nothing to do with reality. The result of all this is that today the Serbian judiciary is overloaded by cases that have inherited precisely their stupidity and passion that they have reversed the same judiciary for the next 50 years, and that the state of Serbia and its citizens have caused damages of more than 30m euros. That's how much this country will cost their pride and pride. I don't know if I need to recalculate how much kindergarten and school could be built for that money, how many child supplements, how many scholarships for students, students and young scientists, could be paid, how many children could be treated and cured for that money. Speaking of money, I can't figure out my fellow MPs and members of the former government what government debt they were talking about yesterday. What kind of borrowing did those who tasked Serbia, who not only in charge of Serbia, say, but without any shame lead it to the edge of debt slavery? What kind of borrowing was spoken of by those who during their reign took loans under shamefully unfavorable conditions with one single goal, raise profits and pensions without real grounds, buy social peace and secure another mandate in power? They didn't care who or how they returned the loans they took. All they cared about was power and, of course, those in power. We had the opportunity to listen yesterday to individuals worry about the situation in public enterprises, especially in the EPS, trying to hide that these enterprises have just encountered problems which have been the result of a catastrophic policy that was implemented from 2000 to 2012, policies that have kept them in a state of subordination and thus provided themselves with their votes in the elections. There's lucky it's their biggest sin, but it's not. They were all part of the regime that carried out the most shameful robbery privatisation, which devastated Serbia and destroyed its economy. They were all part of a regime that drove close to a million workers out into the streets by sending clear messages that there is no job in this country for those who are not their members and listeners. They devastated Serbia, destroyed its economy and made themselves rich. That is why, in order to break up with such a radical policy as soon as possible, in order to contribute to the improvement of the quality and efficiency of the work of the judiciary, the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, since we believe that such a legal solution is well needed and justified. When we talk about the proposals of the law on the confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, since the first is a project of promotion, the bodies of the judicial authorities and concerns 22 sub-projects of the dispatch of the reconstruction of the judicial bodies facilities, the means of which will finance the reconstruction of the Court of Justice and the construction of a new building of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, and that others represent the government's support in implementing the plan for the long-term financial consolidation and transformation of state and public enterprises in the field of energy and transport, as well as that what is extremely important for all of us at this point is that both loans are taken under favourable conditions and will not affect the increase of public debt. Our parliamentary group does not see any obstacle to supporting these two draft laws in the voting day. On the proposal to elect the president of the courts, on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, on the election of a number of public prosecutors and war crimes prosecutors, a member of the High Council of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, will support those candidates who, with their knowledge and experience and ability, are best able to perform the functions in which they are proposed. And finally, I am particularly pleased that as a student of Professor Ranka Keca, I would like to commend that the law schools in the Republic of Serbia have agreed exactly on him as a candidate of the High Council of the judiciary, since it is obviously an executive lawyer, even better for the professor, and, above all, to a great man who is fully worthy of performing the function he is proposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15631	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15632	Mr. Arsic, I'm advocating Article 108 that it is the turn of the session of the old president of the National Assembly, i.e. Chairman in this case you. You've already lost the end of this session at 10:30, yesterday you accused the DS and the opposition of us talking outside the agenda. I don't know what the previous speaker's speech looks like. He should be happy because his President Alexander Vulin and no one else should be found in front of the law. This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, of the 108th order of the session of the Old President of the National Assembly and of the Chairman. This exhibition had previously been a response to the presentation of the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club since yesterday, Mr. Ciric and other members of the opposition. This wasn't about the agenda. I don't know if we have the same vision at today's session. Please, Mr. Arsic, I'm glad we finally saw each other after last night's five discounts that I called in for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that you gave me the same, you're making progress unlike yesterday, but please, if we're going to talk about the agenda topic, because I know that after I'm on the speaker list, you're going to say, "Don't stick to the agenda topic." I'll stick to it, as well as the speakers who've stuck to the agenda topic so far. I'm just asking you to have the same arches as everyone, and I'm asking the Minister of Justice to bring Mr. Woolin's rights first, who should have been in prison long ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15633	Mr. Milojicic, you have just confirmed in your presentation that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and it is not a violation of the subject if the People's Messenger in his presentation responds to another MP, then one and the other were in violation of the Rules of Procedure. They weren't in the dark, were they? As for that, when you mentioned the president of the Socialist Movement, I'd like you to mention him when he's here, not talking about him when he's not. Besides, you were in power until 2012, so if there were grounds for doubt, why didn't you do it then. Therefore, do not abuse the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure any longer without actually having a debate in the National Assembly. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15634	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I warned you yesterday about the rude conduct of certain colleagues. Here, that's exactly what you can see. Apparently they're ashamed of something, maybe you're right. I also warned you of Article 103, that's the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. That member 103 speaks of abuses and how they are sanctioned. Article 103 does not allow an MP to beat up a replica of a minister who is not there. He was extremely attached to the agenda points. The right of MPs is undisputed to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it must not use it as a replica, and especially to MPs and ministers who are not there. You, Mr. Chairman, have allowed it. I appreciate your careful behaviour towards the opposition. You're far more valuable than they are in this House. I ask you to consider, in the future, that the same attitude of Article 8 103. Rules of Procedure, sanction the behaviour of the MPs who, instead of harming the Rules of Procedure, use it as a replica, with this in connection, ask you to subtract two minutes from the parliamentary group, whose representative spoke, and at that time brutally misused that right. You have to do it once, otherwise this won't be the end, as you'll have to sanction all of these who, in this way, interfere with freedom of speech. One day you'll have to punish them for distracting other MPs, because they can't distract me. They're not worthy of me paying so much attention to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15635	Thank you. I have two minutes left to assess whether it should be taken away from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group's time. I'm not for such rigorous measures, at least not at the beginning of the day. Besides, I'm ready to let them talk. It's their right. Often at their own expense, so I won't forbid them. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15636	Injury of Article 107. I'd just like to say that this is a disgrace to say in the House of Ministers. For a man who had just been a victim of the Dossovo regime, for a man who lay in Dossov Kazamat, because he fought against the regime, because he loved Serbia, because he loved the people who were guarding this country. Alexander Wallin was never afraid of your prisons, but the problem was when you arrested him. You could've stopped the proceedings, you could've stopped him, you could've let him out of custody because you didn't have anything, you knew for 12 years that you were only committing repression and persecution of your political opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15637	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Please do not abuse the right to breach the Rules of Procedure to replicate. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15638	I would like to thank the chairman, honourable ministers, respected representatives of the judicial institutions, fellow MPs. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, and we express our sincere confidence that the holders of judicial functions will be elected by those who deserve it, i.e. the best. However, given the course of discussion that lasted the way it lasted yesterday. I will give myself the freedom to apologize to the citizens on behalf of all of our MPs to apologize, to apologize for what was done by the opposition, from the part of the speakers who read the files of the cases from the opposition, which is absolutely unacceptable, for commenting on the files of both the court and the public prosecution cases, which is also unacceptable, to apologize to candidates who have proposed for the holders of judicial functions, both the judges and the prosecutors, for having their names in a very ugly way appeared in this House, in this high home with qualifications in no way, nor were they actually justified, and far from being that anyone outside the justice system has the right to comment on such a matter. Of course, that means both the apology and the prosecution and the courts. This is what citizens should know because such tones, such rhetoric, must never be heard from this home, because in this way we will devalue judicial institutions, bring down the judicial system, lose what our goal is, and that is to achieve the principle of legal certainty and attain justice. What the SPS parliamentary group considers to be right is to propose amendments and additions to the Law on Judges. Yesterday, the promoter, Mr. Martinovic, gave an explanation for why he proposed this law. I am pleased that a man who is not directly in the practical application of procedural and material law feels the need for such a system solution, feels the need to make a change or amendment of the provisions in a qualitative way, and only certain provisions of the Law on Judges. I must, as a man who is bound by his profession of justice, as a lawyer and in the protection of my profession as an integral part of the judiciary, point out the irrefutable facts. The Presidents of the Courts should represent the Bastion, they should be guaranteed, that from their courts, or courts at whose head they are, they will never come up with decisions made under the pressure of lobby groups, interest groups, in any other way, except by law. Every judge is independent and independent. The independence and independence of the judges is limited in only one way, the way the law has prescribed and the law is the only restriction that does not allow absolute independence and absolute independence of judges. What is the duty of the President of the Court? Huge obligations and enormous responsibilities. Surely the most important part of the job of the President of the Court is the court's schedule. It's a segment in the body of its obligations that carries the greatest weight, because it has to form both litigious and extraparious, partially executive matter. He must form in individual courts of the department, in the Economic Court of Appeals of the Department of Economic Disputes, the department of bankruptcy, the department of reasonable time. It must take care of the even distribution of cases to judges so that judges can achieve as effective work as possible. It must make sure that the case-law department works in the best possible way, in order to come out of one court decisions which would not harm the party's right to feel legal certainty in terms of decisions which are not different, and from the same court, especially when it comes to a second-degree court. The highest degree of dissatisfaction among citizens is precisely in terms of two directions. One is the direction of trial or violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, because disputes are unusually long-running. The second direction is unequal court practice. In both segments, the Presidents of the Courts bear a special responsibility, that both the department of case law and the department of reasonable time-limits function in the best possible way. In addition, the President of the Court is a kind of manager, because it takes care of the material and financial state of the courts. Now, when all of this is taken into account, whether it is rational and if any of the MPs, anyone, can convince us that it is not, I would really not have had any particular comment, that the President of the Court who literally did all these affairs in the best possible way, the optimal way, that he respected all those obligations that are tied up and the Rules of Procedure of the Court, that he respected all the obligations attached to the guarantee that every judge would have the opportunity to work uninterruptedly, that every judge would be in charge of the number of cases that would provide and resolve the inflows, and achieve the urgency and achievement of quality, that he would be lifted as little judgment as possible, and as many judgments would be confirmed. Shouldn't such a judge, who turned out to be working for the duration of his term of office, work until the end of his term? You're right, you're right. I'm the first man to declare myself part of the judicial system and protect the justice system that every judge must have that kind of security provided to him by the president, and the President of the Court has the right to continue your affairs. And by norming this provision in amendments to the law, we are now achieving that effect. It's one of my deepest beliefs and convictions of the SPS parliamentary group may have been done before, but it's never too late. Yesterday we heard something astounding, and here I'm going to be tied up in another section to select the holders of judicial functions, both the judge and the prosecutors. It has been said that people who turned 62, 63, 64, what they have to demand more in the judicial system. Let's go on the one hand, which is discriminatory, but on the other hand, if we look at the parallel right, how many judicial systems we have, how many countries we have in which the excessive working age is defined to a much higher level, the age level relative to ours. Second, as is the case of the Supreme Court of the United States, where judges are elected for life, therefore, his working life span is bound to a lifetime. Why? Because it is necessary to ensure the continuity of work, because legal certainty needs to be ensured, because it is necessary to provide an optimal way of functioning of the judicial system. If this can happen in America, if it can in the countries of Western Europe, what is it disputed to be in Serbia? I therefore believe that the proposals submitted by the Government to the Assembly, which have been defined by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, are extremely correct proposals, based on something which cannot and cannot be doubted here. Yesterday there were disputes that were absolutely unfounded. Above all, the procedure for selecting both prosecutors and the judge is more than transparent. Secondly, the evaluation of the work of both judges and prosecutors is quite present. Third, criteria are prescribed and they are respected. There is little anyone here who or may not have known to say that there is a normative act on the basis of which the work of candidates who have applied for the selection of a public prosecutor's post, that these criteria are prescribed by the Regulation, that there are clear norms in the Regulation which specify the choice and proposal of candidates, that criteria suggest: one, expertise, two, competence, three, dignity, and that dignity is assumed. Isn't that enough for citizens to make sure that this is not a party way of choosing the holders of judicial functions, but rather something that is defined by law and sublegal acts, and these sublegal acts within the limits of their jurisdiction by the minister of justice? If so, and so, why is there any doubt that is more than known? When we talk about criteria and criteria, I want citizens, but too much for citizens to point out a few facts. The Judicial Academy has been challenged by those who set up the Judicial Academy. The judicial academy as an institution implies an institution that provides the possibility of education or additional training for those who will one day become judges or public prosecutors. Did those who went through training at the Justice Academy get a call from a future judge or a public prosecutor, did those who spent three years as assistants in the public prosecutor's office have to take the exam? Absolutely not. And it's clearly standardized and it clearly writes and does not need to be challenged. Next, is the prosecution's work being monitored when it comes to their willingness to engage in decisions taken by prosecutors? Yeah. Do they have to have the right knowledge in the field of information technologies? Yeah. Do they have to know international legal regulations? Yeah. If that's all true, and it is true, then we can't question those criteria, and these are the criteria that serve you for proposing to the ministry, I apologize, for the assessment, and for the ministry of proposing candidates for public prosecutorial functions. What certainly deserves the most public attention today is the choice of war crimes prosecutors. Yesterday we heard a disputation from the D.A.'s institution of war crimes. I must remind myself that the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office exists not only in Serbia. The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office exists in many other countries. I'd just ask, if you can just, are colleagues from my parliamentary group, but you should take care of discipline in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15639	Only you discipline your MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15640	What I want to point out is particularly significant. The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has been defined by law. If we're looking for an end to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, then we absolutely need to cancel one law, which is a law relating to the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the war crimes proceedings. In addition, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has one part, let's say, rights or regulations that do not relate to domestic legislation but to international legislation. If so, and so, then we must keep in mind that this is exactly what the prosecution has to do and it is specialized in order for war criminals to be prosecuted, prosecuted and punished. I have to remind myself of something that wasn't said here yesterday, which is that even after decades and decades, war criminals are found because war crimes don't get old. We witnessed 15 years ago that one of the war criminals, who was undoubtedly testified, as a monster, Andrija Artuković was arrested, prosecuted, prosecuted and punished after 40 years or perhaps more than 40 years of crime. For God's sakes, we will always have the circumstances of events that impose the need for war crimes to be investigated, and since it is not outdated, then it is logical that war criminals will always be in the focus of prosecution, in the focus of processing, in the focus of research, or evidence, and, ultimately, the expression of adequate criminal sanctions, or punishment. Then why end the War Crimes Prosecution? If it exists in Bosnia, if it exists in many countries around the world, why deny such an institution in Serbia? The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office must take care of its organization in order to be as successful as possible, to raise it to the most optimal level of work, both in personal and in any other sense of the word. The minister even announced a national strategy for fighting war crimes, and that's part of the prosecution's jurisdiction for war crimes. Can we be content or dissatisfied? Let's be completely honest. That can only be said by the waist. Is anyone here so free and ready, confident to say he's competent to assess the prosecution's work on everything? I'm not sure. The profession is yes, and we are only at the level of what we can effectively determine and evaluate in a way that involves contributing to the better work of the prosecution. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to draw attention to something else. As long as we're choosing prosecutors, since we're choosing deputy public prosecutors, we're choosing judges, we have to have something else in mind. There must be no false solidarity, the presidents of the courts must not tolerate judges who do not comply with the law, who do not resolve the inflow of cases, who are in violation of the party's right to trial within a reasonable period of time and that such judges are subject to proceedings. I am glad that the High Council of the Judiciary has one such approach to prosecute and discipline those who do not. I'm glad the D.A.'s office has that access to the D.A.'s office. Unfortunately, we have today, I hope you gentlemen from the State Council of Prosecutors won't mind, situations where prosecutors sometimes behave in a way that isn't in the spirit of what I'm saying, so let's just say, where there's an absolutely pure criminal-law situation, they declare complaints against first-degree decisions where there's no even a theoretical possibility of that decision changing. I know I don't have the right to say that and that the second-degree body decides, but the fact of the matter is that you just form unnecessary costs, but you still go to such costs. I don't know why. In this direction, care should be taken to achieve that level of trust of citizens in judicial institutions that provide them with absolute legal certainty. We have situations where both the charges, no matter what the indictment act is, is it an indictment or indictment, when it persists in something that is not at all in the spirit of what means the state of the case file. Quite the opposite. Is that an insufficient education of the prosecutor? Is that something else? Are there any external reasons that aren't within the prosecution? It's not my place to comment, but that's why it's also why they're on the prosecution's to determine themselves according to their colleagues, according to prosecutors, about checking their work. I believe that both the presidents of the courts, as well as the public prosecutors, must take care of this at all times and that their work must be transparent in order for citizens to feel it in the best way possible. I wanted to use the remaining time, but I won't be able to make it because it stands out, but just to look back at the authentic interpretation of the provisions of the Law on State Crossing and Catastrophe, so I'll do it later. I just want to say that the courts, such as the First Basic Court in Belgrade, will not minimize the work of other courts, all courts in Serbia are at the level at which they are trying to achieve as much urgency as possible, the better quality of work, the faster solving of the inflow of cases and the more efficient handling of cases. I point out that one example of such work is the Business Court of Appeal in Belgrade, in the territory of the Zlatibor County, the General Court in Požega, as well as many other courts. I hope that their work will be an example of how judges and prosecutors will treat their work. In this direction, all the proposals made here, following the final proposal for a vote, will be supported by the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15641	The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15642	I intervene on the basis of Article 27. It seems to me, Mr. Arsic, that you did not listen to the start of the discussion of Ambassador Jovanovic. He initially said he apologized to the citizens, the ministry's gentlemen, from the judicial authorities on behalf of all the MPs. The SRS parliamentary group has not authorized him to apologize on our behalf. If he has the need to court the congregation’s majority, or ruling party, we do not. He can do it on his own behalf or on behalf of someone who's authorized him. He also said completely inadmissible, MP Jovanovic here that MPs should not mention the names of carriers, i.e. candidates for legal holders. We are MPs, we are discussing these people, that is, these proposals, we must mention names where there is a need to mention a name. Again, if he won't and his Socialist Party thinks it's okay for the judicial authorities to instrumentise themselves for political purposes, then let him think. But, please, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, he must neither apologize nor say anything. Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15643	You have no right, Mr. Nema, to a replica. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Abuse of Rules of Procedure.) A colleague of Nejo did not violate the Rules of Procedure in his presentation. He has the right to say what he means, and you, too, have the right to say what you think and you just said it. Are you asking that the Parliament in voting day plead on the injured Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) First of all, my colleague Pavlovic is in the system. On what grounds? (Dusan Pavlovic: I have the right three more times. That'll wait. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15644	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I think the dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of all citizens of Serbia have been injured. While Minister Vujovic here...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15645	A member?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15646	I said, Article 107. While Mr Vujovic, of the Ministry of Finance, explains here how good it is to assign Serbia and its citizens 186m euros, his secretary of state buys a 400,000-euro villa. Is that Serbia that SNS stands for?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15647	Dear fellow, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15648	What's the warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15649	Because this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15650	Because I defend this House's dignity? Because you owe us 186m euros while the Secretary of State boasts in a 400,000-euro villa?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15651	Mr. Milicic, I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15652	Thank you. They see all these citizens. (Marian Risticevic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15653	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15654	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Chairman, here's the opportunity, those who come out and turn their backs, I'm advertising Article 103, Article 106, Member of the 107th Dispute of Speakers, as I speak. They're the ones who've been looking for me in the rooms to beat me and now they're coming out, they've got to be ashamed of their actions. A colleague earlier advertised an injury based on a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Maybe he can do it at a football club in Palanco, but he can't do it here. So, there are serious people sitting here unlike him. You have to start, and now you are no longer at the opportunity, but Mrs Gojkovic, to apply the 103rd position 8 and to any such violation of the Rules of Procedure and to any interference and 106, 107, say the measures both 108 and 109, here's your chance, my colleague, farmer, persistently violates the Rules of Procedure, persistently turns my back, and we have this agricultural collegiation, but it's not worth it. He won't show, but you are in a position to take advantage of the abuses of the Rules of Procedure and to finally reject those two minutes of parliamentary groups that abuse the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, I am aware of the fact that you are trying to be, in a way, gentle towards opposition MPs, who are harshly abused by the rule. But once you have to refuse those two minutes so this Assembly can work in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15655	Thank you. My dear Lint, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15656	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will talk about a point of the agenda that is very important for the general process of stabilisation and reconciliation in the Western Balkans region. It's the choice of a war crimes prosecutor. We are all aware that in the past 25 years, part of the international community has led a double standard policy towards the former Yugoslavia's space. For that part of the international community, there is only one party that is guilty, that is the Serbian side, which is considered criminal and aggressive, and Croats, Albanians and Bosniaks are considered innocent victims who have waged Liberation Wars. I don't think this double approach to the work of the international community can certainly contribute to a fair relationship, related to war crimes trials in relation to victims and missing persons. Only the same standards, compared to war criminals, according to victims and missing persons, can lead to the establishment of lasting peace, the establishment of trust and general stabilisation in this space. I think it is very important that in 2003 the War Crimes Act was passed, on the basis of which the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office was founded, which was tasked with contributing to the process of punishing war criminals, on the one hand, and the reconciliation process, on the other hand. I don't think our War Crimes Prosecution, in the last 14 years, has fulfilled that mission in full. I think our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, as well as the UN tribunal, has put the accent, above all, on the processing of crimes committed by Serbs and has not treated the crimes committed against Serb civilians equally. I'm going to get some information on my thesis. Since its founding in 2003, the Serbia War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has indicted 184 people, in 64 cases, of which two are Bosniaks, two Croats, 21 Albanians and even 159 Serbs, or 86% of all indictees. On the other hand, according to the Republic Centre for War Research, War Crimes and the search for missing persons in Banja Luka, the BiH Court confirmed the indictments against 651 people. The largest number refers to the persons of Serbian nationality, 383, or even 59%, then Bosniaks 166, or 25%, and 102, or 16%, of Croats. So far, 181 persons have been convicted legally before the BiH court, of which 114 Serbian, 41 Bosniak and 26 Croatian nationalities. For crimes against Serbs, the BiH Court has imposed only 230 years of fines, making up only 10% of all penalties imposed. For crimes against Bosniaks, the BiH Court has imposed a sentence of even 1800 years, which accounts for 81% of all penalties imposed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to the State Prosecutor's Office, as many as 3.553 people are suspected or accused of war crimes, of which even 2.999 persons of Serbian nationality who have been indicted in absentia, and only 107 members of the Croatian military or police, or 3% were investigated or charged. Of them, only 40 were convicted. Most of these penalties, unfortunately, are not in the function of truth and justice, but are more offended by the victims for the small punishments for the terrible crimes that took place against Serb civilians and prisoners. I believe that the new war crimes prosecutor should immediately start working to prosecute war crimes against Serb civilians and prisoners, i.e. to increase the number of investigations and the number of charges against non-Serbs. I believe that our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and our Major Court War Crimes Department should launch, unless otherwise possible, and the absentee trials, because it is obvious that neither the BiH judiciary nor the Croatian judiciary is prepared to have the same standards for all war crimes. Unfortunately, the BiH judiciary and the Croatian judiciary are ethnically motivated by justice, and we usually have tragic facts that penalties for Serbs are far more severe, and for Croats and Bosniaks are far more mild. I also believe that the new war crimes prosecutor should set up teams for war crimes cases in BiH, KIM and Croatia, whose goal is to collect evidence for crimes against Serbs. More assistance should be provided to the injured and witnesses, and the war crimes prosecutor should also make one precise record of all war crimes in the former Yugoslavia's area committed to members of Serbian nationality. I will now list a series of examples of crimes against Serbs in the territory of Croatia, BiH and KIM, because I have the impression that in the work of our public there is one thesis that only our side is guilty and that it is only necessary to talk about the crimes committed by members of Serb military and police formations and that only the Serb people must face the war past. This approach is a unilateral approach, and as long as there is no readiness in both Sarajevo and Zagreb, and Pristina, to face their criminal past, I believe that every story of reconciliation and reconciliation is losing every sense and there is no chance of success. I'll mention a series of crimes in the Western and Eastern Slavonia area. As for Western Slavonia, over the fall of 1991, more than 80,000 Serbs were expelled in three Croatian criminal military-police operations "Otkos", "Orkan" and "Papuk" during the fall of 1991. Terrible crimes have been committed. Over 60 Serbian villages were burned and evicted. For example, Marina village near Lipik, where members of the National Guard Assembly killed and tortured 18 Serbs from the village of Clip and Klis. There is only a first-degree verdict, but the commanders of this camp have been released. The town of Novska -- killed seven Serbian civilians. The wife of one of the killed civilians, Marica Shatovic, launched a procedure for compensation for damages before the Croatian judiciary. Not only did she not receive compensation for her murdered husband, but she even has to pay the costs of the trial. Pakračka poljena, the terrible crimes committed by members of Mercep's unit when they gathered people from the municipality of Kutina, Pakrac and Zagreb. In all, 52 people were killed, 43 of them were killed, three were reported missing, and six survived torture and abuse. Interior Minister Tomislav Mercep was sentenced to only five and a half years in prison for the murder of 43 Serb civilians in May 2016. The verdict is still inequitable. The families of the victims say that five and a half years in prison for the criminal Mercep is on the verge of a live wound from all those families. We have terrible crimes in Voćin and surrounding villages when members of Croatian formations arrested 24 Serbian civilians who were brutally killed. Then crimes in Virovitica and villages around Virovitica, where 10 prominent Serbs were killed. Requests for immaterial damage to the victim's family have been denied. Scary crimes also took place in Osijek from July 1991 to December 1991. Since the summer of 1991, they have begun to take away, disappear, torture, murder, the closure of Serbs who remained in Osijek. Crimes against Serbs are known as "Slotep" and "Garrage". The Garage case refers to the abduction and torture of Serb civilians in the National Defence Secretariat building, whose secretary was known for his evil Branimir Glavas, while the "Slotep" case refers to the case of the murder of Serb civilians who were handcuffed at the time of the murder by tape. Evidence of the killings of Serbs in Osijek is, according to my data, in the Serbian Ministry of Justice. They were collected by judge Ilija Simic in 2005, who worked at the Committee for Data Collection on Crimes committed against Humanity of International Law, and he provided the justice ministry with a list of 53 killed and missing Serbs from 1991 to 1992. The second document lists the names of 28 witnesses who, apart from crimes, talked about the time it was like being a Serb in Osijek in the summer of autumn, in winter 1991. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice then and also our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office did not act on the material delivered by Judge Ilija Simic. This material has been in place in the Ministry for 12 years. I expect that by electing a new war crimes prosecutor, this material will be activated and will be the basis for launching a crime investigation against Serbs in Osijek. In 2009, the United States of The County Court in Osijek condemned Glavas and five others for war crimes against the civilian population. The head was sentenced to 10 years. The Supreme Court reduces his sentence to eight years. He's serving time in BiH. The Constitutional Court abolishes the Supreme Court's verdict. He gets out of prison in BiH, returns to Croatia as a free man, although there is an unfair verdict by the mentioned County Court in Zagreb. Now a war criminal convicted by an unfair Zagreb County Court is elected representative in the Croatian Parliament. Imagine that it happened in Serbia, that a Serb who was wrongly convicted was elected an MP? I'd raise a hook and a hook. The entire international community, Zagreb, Sarajevo, would all jump on their feet and say that in the Serbian assembly there were MPs who committed crimes against civilians and prisoners. Special casualties were in Vukovar, where Mercep's troops committed terrible crimes. It is a lie and the hypocrisy of Croatian politicians when they say the war in Vukovar was started by Serbs. That's absolutely not true. Since spring, the disappearances, arrests, torture and murder of Serbs began in 1991, until September 1991, when a decision was made to unblock the JNA barracks in Vukovar. By September 1991, no Croats in Vukovar were killed or bullied. According to the Association of Families of Murdered, Dead and Missing and Violently Taken Persons "against oblivion" in Croatia, about 120 Serbs are reportedly killed or missing by the start of the war until September 1991. Unfortunately, for these murders, Tomislav Mercep and the members of his formations were not punished. We've had terrible crimes in Zadar. For an evil-known "Crisstal Night", when an angry mob armed with poles, stangs, broke into Serbian shops, broke into Serbian apartments, broke down the business facilities of Serbian firms that had their own branches on 2 May 1991. During 1991-1992, about 200 Serbian houses, cottages, business facilities and social firms of Serbia were destroyed, and according to the then head of the municipal court's Criminal Department in Zadar, 470 Serb-owned houses and locals were destroyed in the wider area of Zadar, and 15 civilians were killed in the period 1991/1993 in Zadar. Of course, nothing has been done about this crime either, or the competent judicial authorities of Croatia have prosecuted responsible employers and perpetrators of this crime. Paulin Dvor, we had a tragic fact that Croatian soldiers from automatic weapons killed 18 civilians, including eight women and four married couples. The officers of this crime have not been processed. In particular, the tragic situation, i.e. a terrible crime, took place in Sisak during 1991-1992 when more than 600 Serb civilians were killed. Croatian journalist Domagoj Margetic filed a criminal report in 2011 against those responsible for crimes against Serbs in Sisak. He handed over all of his research documents to our war crimes prosecutor's office in Belgrade in 2011 on crimes against more than 600 Serbs in Sisak since 1991-1992. Unfortunately, since 2011 to this day, our war crimes prosecutor's office has done nothing to launch an investigation into the processing of crimes against Serbs in Sisak. We had crimes in seven Bani villages in a triangle between Sisak, Petrinja, Sunja, when the members of the MUP and the Zengovs entered armored vehicles, beside which the infantry moved, and when they killed 21 people of Serb nationality from firearms, and many were wounded. No one answered for that crime either. The Coral Bridge, September 1991, killed 13 members of the territorial defense, four saved themselves. We have had a farce since the trial of Michael Hrastov for 20 years, after three acquittals he was sentenced in 2012 to four years, although the minimum verdict for the crime is ten years. Of course, in this case, the Croatian judiciary has proved to be ethnically motivated. Scary crimes in Gospic, when 158 people of Serbian nationality and several Croats who stood in the protection of Serbs were killed in the area of the former municipality of Gospic from August to December. Tihomir Oreskovic was sentenced to 15 years, Mirko Norac to 12 years, and was sentenced to Medak pocket in September 1993 from five years and a united sentence of 15 years. He lasted ten years, and for ten years, he acted like he was staying in a hotel. In prison, he got married, went home on weekends, so it was the best message the Croatian judiciary ever thought of crimes against Serbs. We had a crime of course against three officers in Bjelovar, when the commander of the barracks made a decision on surrender, but the commander of the crisis headquarters, Bjelovar Jure Simic, was not processivated to this day, although he ordered the murder of three Serbian officers, led by Colonel Kovacevic. The biggest crimes in a military camp in Lora, when about a hundred Serbs were killed, and over a thousand passed the googot, torture and torture. I just put out a piece of the facts and data about crimes against Serbs. Here we have military-police actions Miljevaci plato, Medački pocket, Maslenica, terrible crimes in "Storm", we have the murder of a folk MP in the Croatian Parliament of Dusan Trivolčić from Jasenovac, a prominent Serb in the area. Members of Croatian paramilitary formations came to his house in the summer of 1991, took him away. The next morning, he was found not far from home. No one has been prosecuted for the murder of a Serb national MP in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15657	Thank you, Ambassador, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15658	I end up with huge crimes in Storm, we have a series of places where Serbs were killed, huge crimes in Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, I would like to say once again my belief that the new war crimes prosecutor will be actively working to prosecute the crimes against Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15659	Thank you. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. The word has the People's MP Dubravka Filipovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15660	I thank the president. Dear ministers, respected representatives of the judicial institutions, it is difficult to speak immediately after such facts as my distinguished counterpart Lint has brought about the Serb death. However, such data and facts prove that crimes never go out of date and that it is also necessary for the public prosecutor's institution for war crimes to continue in Serbia, it is also necessary to coordinate this institution with other war crimes institutions in the region to bring all criminals to justice and that no victim would remain that someone who committed the crime would not be responsible for it. As for the other proposals for judges and public prosecutors, I have to point out, and for me, that's the most important thing right now. It absolutely respects all the legal and constitutional procedures for candidates for public prosecutors and judges you've handed over here. That's what's most important right now. What is bad and what is not good, in my opinion, is the fact that a pay phone in this House serves that when there are not enough arguments to say anything else, then there are some flat-rate estimates in the sense that the procedure is not respected, that the candidates are under pressure, that their source has a political connotation. That's not good, because that's how it's done total damage to our judiciary. Of course, it is legitimate and it is undeniable that each of the fellow Members of Parliament has the right to deliver its opinion, but it is also incorrect and the fact that no action plan of Chapter 23 is implemented in any way. I must say, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Stabilisation and Association, absolutely follows all chapters, that we also have reports from the European Commission and screenings, and it is not true that the reform of the Action Plan for Chapter 23 is not being implemented. All of this is foreseen by our strategy for judicial reform. I also want to say that if there is any argument against any candidate for the judge or public prosecutor who has been proposed, I ask my colleagues to make it publicly, and the flat-rate estimates that there has been pressure, that it has not been transparent, I don't think they are good, because first of all they bring down the institutions of the judge, the institutions of the prosecutors, even the judicial institutions. I expect that the proposed prosecutors, if most votes are elected to their posts, to work effectively and in quality, I expect that in their work they have no political, no other influence, I expect that they have absolute independence, of course, only independent of the law, I expect that there is no statute of limitations, which undermines the reputation of the judiciary, I expect no one to be privileged, and I expect no more victims to be committed by the public prosecutor's decision to release the potential attacker. I have closely followed the training of the public prosecutors and judges, and we look forward to applying the Law against Family Violence, and I believe that we will not immediately, but have significant shifts in the application of this law. Also, I believe that a great deal has been done with the proposals that are today ahead of us and certainly that we have the opportunity to change the Constitution that was announced for the end of 2017 and all that has been seen as a failure to change, first of all, through giving greater authority to the State Council of Prosecutors, and that we in parliament only in some way choose what you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15661	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15662	Of course it's pointless to speak at the same time as 40 and some points of the agenda, but the senselessness has become the mark of this Parliament in one part, so, what do we do, we have to fight with it. I'll look back on two things regardless of the rude throw of some. One is the bill on amendments to the Law on Judges. This is a completely unnecessary, pointless law based on its existence by the alleged need to equalise the status of the Supreme Cassation Court president with the status of other court presidents, which is completely pointless and legally irrelevant. And, also, that the need to pass this law, the need to stabilise the position it is working on, means, the president of the court, for the sake of the alleged successful performance of the President of the Court. That means if we extend it to 18 years to be a mandate, then it would be even more stable. The President of the Court is no leader, he is the best or one among the equals that should at that time represent the court in some things that do not have much direct connection with what is otherwise the jurisdiction of the courts and judges. So, on our part from the New Party, you will have the amendments "wipe out" on all four members with an explanation written by Mrs Vesna Rakić Vednelic, professor of Law Faculty and President of the New Party Council. So I expect you to fix this mistake that you have made that you have submitted this bill and to save your soul from further violating the meaning of this Parliament's existence. I'm going to say something briefly about the D.A.'s election. There's a lot of names, I hear there was a calling yesterday. It's information of public interest, and I'm sorry, anyone who wants to do public work should be prepared and mentioned in public, so that's true for prosecutors. This applies primarily to politicians, MPs, government members, etc., but also to those people who perform that public function. It was a dilemma whether MPs should see the average grades and the length of the candidate's study, so we heard from the minister that there was no need to know. From what I understand, if I'm wrong, I'm sorry, but we didn't get that, so the pressure is through the Information Commissioner, we got some information, so we have candidates. For example, Stajković Mirjana, girla Radovanović, ten years of study, Dedić Miljan, ten years of study, with an average of 7.19, Stajkovic with 7.14, Zivković Milan average of 6.74, ten years, etc., etc. When you look at that data a little bit, when you do a little dent, then you see it's very interesting. You have completely talented families for the prosecution's affairs, where the whole family is practically completely committed to fighting for the protection of the state against crime. Well, let's just say, as far as I got this data, the source is relevant, so if I'm wrong, I'll apologize, but I don't believe it. We have the Dedic family, Father Momcilo was proposed to the Senior Public Prosecutor in Pogorevc. He was born in 1954, meaning two years until retirement, and is elected for a term of six years, if I remember correctly. Son of Miljan, who studied for 10 years in Kragujevac, has an average of 7.19, was proposed to deputy Belgrade's Third General Prosecutor. Don't worry about your mother. The mother is already the deputy of Belgrade's Second General Prosecutor. I don't know if there are any more kids in that family, what it's like with pets and with the whole family, but this is one interesting example that even if they're really the best three in the world, it's just rude. It's rude for the whole family to be a prosecutor. A farming cooperative does not practice such a thing, let alone in such important affairs as the prosecutor's job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15663	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15664	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here again these fine, educated, cultural trying to distract me. Someone would see this as an insult, of course not, because I can't be insulted by what's worse than me, but only better. You were just listening to the discussion of a man who probably thinks he's Napoleon. My fellow farmer was talking about the prosecution, the judiciary. I think he should be the object of interest to these particular judicial authorities and the prosecution's case. Namely, I ask the prosecutors, I ask the judges, I ask these new ones who are going to be for this excellent acquaintance of the vineyard, the winemaker, I ask – is he supposed to answer because, by his own admission, he threw the man out at full speed from the train? (Vojislav Seselj: Who? () My fellow farmer, winemaker. The time of 13.11.2014, not to be that they wrote a newspaper that he had torn up, some banned and he advocates freedom of the press. He's all paradoxical. He says this, the witnesses are members of his party, Istvan Kaic and Marko Matic, say Pavicevic could as well. He says that in the original headquarters of the Hilandar Street party in February 2013, he openly boasted that in his early youth on a train trip from Nis to Belgrade, along with his train company, he threw a foreign citizen out at full speed just because he spoke English. So this is a hate crime. He spoke English so according to his own confession and therefore I ask the prosecution – why does he not listen to Istvan Kaic and Mark Matic to confirm this recognition of my fellow farmer? I also agree on families, so the D.A.'s office can answer my questions and these new ones, Kendel Day,... You know, like me, privatization, Dina, Philip Morris, Lukoila vineyards, this-that, and the woman in the prosecution. War crimes prosecutor's office, no protections. He said public figures. According to Biserka Zivkovic, at a meeting on 10.11.2010, here are the minutes, with Kendel Deja, the US Embassy's legal adviser in Belgrade. This is one of those records from that meeting. I filed a criminal report that I never got an answer for, for spying. This is open spying because there are Vladimir Vukkovic, Dragoljub Stankovic, Bruno Vekaric, Biserka Zivkovic and Bojan Lapčević. Kendel Day and Marjana Santrac, a legal adviser at the US Embassy in Belgrade, are present. The case "Lovas" is being discussed, the case "Cusca" is being discussed on the subject "Suva Reka", which were live items. Deputy Vekaric said Mrs Kandic's work is very important and is respected in the war crimes prosecutor's office. They report Kendall Dea, a foreign state representative, what our prosecutor's office is doing and ultimately say -- senior adviser Biserka Zivkovic. Finally, they say -- but in the prosecution they are ready to meet once a month with representatives of the US Embassy and to speak more specifically about the course of each case. Signature - Biserka Zivkovic. So, will anyone in this country, now that we've elected a war crimes prosecutor, will anyone be responsible for spying? That's one thing, and I welcome every punishment of crime. No one gets hurt because he's not a Serb, but no one gets hurt because he's a Serb, either. The law is for every law, Valtazar Bogisic said, and that rule should be applied. New judges, new prosecutors need to make justice available to everyone, to protect the innocent, to punish the guilty. But in the past, in order to cover privatisation, representatives of the former regime's party were elected by judges who would amneste prosecutors of any responsibility for an unprecedented predatory privatisation that had incurred 400,000 people in distress and despair. They are now handing over to us, and on my fellow farmers, vineyards, Lukojila, 12 million for DIN privatisation, etc., says Valtazar Bogisic – the greatest evil is when one of his evils still benefits. That's right about my fellow farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15665	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15666	Thank you very much. Of course, the previous speaker has in no way denied what I was saying in the performance before his, so it's an obvious confirmation and I'm very glad that it's obviously the smartest among you, the smartest, most educated, and even the most beautiful, most witty, practically your genius, your ideologist, your confidant who just spoke, even he, so cleverest, most brilliant, most intelligent, most intelligent among you, can't guess the truth even that he's right under his nose. Of course I won't comment on the lies that have been made, because everyone knows it. If that's not a lie, I should've either been lying or hanging out in some prison for a long time. Of course, I listen to such nonsense every day and it's not the first time and it won't be the last time. I was just talking about the obligation of a public figure to suffer when it comes to them, for these prosecutors, for this family of talented prosecutors. I too, as a politician, must hear every voice of the public, all that is directed towards me, and that is absolutely logical, normally, even though it was lies. Not at least, it's 99.9% of cases of lies. I have this witness, Mr. Krasic. On the front page of some newspaper, something stupid or so called, it says we smoked in the bathroom yesterday. Fortunately, I'm a 13-year-old anti-smoking and sworn anti-smoking fighter, so it's completely incorrect. But what can I do to you? It's Serbia and it's the Serbian Parliament. Therefore, the lies of the smartest among you speak of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15667	Ambassador, I have to stop you. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15668	Otherwise, time's up, all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15669	You talk to Risticevic, but you must speak with respect about parliament. That's when you're not happy when the papers write something about you, you see with the press, but you don't insult parliament. The word is Marijan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's more fine, raised, this, that. What he wants to do to me, that's what's gonna happen when he gives birth to grapes and comeback grass. By the way, we have learned new knowledge – our Napoleon is a non-smoker. After this discussion and replica, we learned that our Napoleon is not a smoker. But we're going in a row. He tried to qualify me here in various ways. The proverb says: You cannot make anyone respect you, but you can oppose anyone who does not respect you. I'm obliged to confront the former prime minister, my fellow farmer, who here talked about everything, about diagnosis, education, etc., who is also an expert on the wine line, but here he asked to release the 47 people he called here. President of the Assembly, I urge him to let my fellow farmer release all his colleagues from college and release all the classmates from the military, that they may freely visit parliament every day, without anyone's permission, but only to prove that his colleagues are from the university and his colleagues from the military. You will soon see that no one will come and you will see the degree of education and you will see everything else, the degree of character my fellow farmer had. So if you invite all his college colleagues and all his army colleagues to come to the National Assembly as guests every day, here's about my cost of having lunch, no one will come, and I won't have any expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15671	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. ) Let's move on, so Parliament doesn't burden you with your relations. Do you agree? Miroslav Aleksic is not here. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15672	The President-in-Office, respected minister, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is today the subject of this session, in addition to the election of judges who first assume their duties as prosecutors, in addition to having amendments and additions to the Law on Judges and the two agreements they confirm, is one financial contract relating to the promotion of justice-related facilities, and the other part relating to the loan. When we talk about the need to adopt today's financial agreement, namely to confirm what started in 2010, then we must say that it is very important for the Serbian Parliament to, in addition to the election of judges and that part of the judiciary that makes up both the staff and part of the system itself through the construction and promotion of the facilities in which judges and prosecutors work. That is why it is good that today we have at the same session of this so-called phase B, the objects that refer to the Court of Justice and Reconstruction and the promotion of the Office of Organized Crime in Statska Street. But it should be recalled that the process, in general, a programme part of investment projects, which began in 2011 and lasted until 2018, was adopted on the basis of a European Parliament's decision. The first decision was in 2009 and the second decision was in 2014, under the number 466 of 2014. This shows exactly our desire to implement chapters 23 and 24 and that this is our international obligation, that ultimately the facilities that should provide smooth work for both prosecutors and judges, but also to ensure greater fight and the results of the struggle for Serbia's citizens' rights and justice in those institutions should be supported not only by the EU, but also by the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, and in this respect this financial plan and the planned resources are in the draft budget for 2017. So, the 26 million that are practically a confirmation of this financial plan for this second and third phase of this programme implies a loan whose period of repayment is 25 years, which implies five years of grace periods with very favourable interest rates of 1%, but also implies a kind of procedure that does not charge neither fees nor fees for withdrawing these loans. It is very important to say that such a loan allows for the possibility that, in the course of realisation itself, in line with Serbia's financial capabilities, if necessary, we are changing certain periods of tranche. Why is it important to adopt an agreement like this today? Or in this package, together with the choice of judges and prosecutors, we should talk about it because it is a united system for the functioning of the judiciary in Serbia, and as such, it should allow us to make it impossible for anyone who wishes in the future to implement any instrumentisation of the judiciary for political purposes. What the SNS are also saying is that those who have done so, who have had enough strength and ability, but also crazy, I would say that they fire 600 judges and simply execute one of the very important branches of government -- judicial ones, and that in some way despite the recommendations of the Venice Commission, they do not return the judge to their jobs during a given period, but that they do so when they have already received the new 600 judges to those jobs, which is why they have fully burdened the system, making financial difficulties in the functioning of not only the judiciary, but also Serbia's budget at all. So this should be reminded not only of our colleagues here, but also of all citizens of Serbia, and therefore this financial plan is fully in the function of improving the system that awaits us, especially with Chapters 23 and 24 in negotiations with the EU and raising standards to that higher level. What triggered a discussion yesterday in parliament, a loan agreement relating to the first programme loan of development policy in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises between the Republic of Serbia and the IBRD of 182.6m euros. We had opportunities as MPs of all political representatives to hear from the finance ministry's representatives what the public debt looks like today, and what it looked like with the end of last year. We learned that 700m euros were returned by 1 April 2017. We have seen that Serbia's budget in the first four months is in surplus, we have seen that there is also a great fiscal discipline, that we are simply coming into the situation to reprogramme expensive loans with cheaper ones and that what was once interest rates for loans of 6.7% today is 2.2%, but not only because offers on the market are small, as we have had opportunities to hear from those who do not believe in these results, but because Serbia has achieved a much better credit rating and because of the conduct of foreign policy, but also because of the economic reforms implemented and fiscal consolidation. Of course, they do not hide those developed countries that send their investors every day and who are interested in investing and opening new jobs in Serbia, but they do not hide those who simply do not have such good intentions for countries in the region that have some other projects related if they should and for some war facts and raise tensions when it comes to security itself. What cannot be denied is that Serbia ended last year with 2.7% of growth, when we talk about Serbia's economy at all, that Serbia has the best results in the region, that the simple employment rate has fallen apart from the last four years, almost halved, that a large number of jobs have been opened, that great financial discipline has been introduced and that Serbia is therefore one good place to invest. But today when we talk about politics in the region at all and when we talk about politics in the European Union, we are simply a relevant negotiating partner to solve and problems that we were not allowed to talk about until yesterday. Therefore, Serbia has shown that with such contracts it is simply the time for us to gather the results of our hard work together with Serbian citizens over the past four years. Therefore, in the voting day and my colleagues from the SNS will vote in favour of the proposals of these laws and agreements, but we also call on those who participated in these agreements in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15673	Thank you. Biljana Pantić Pija has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15674	Thank you. Dear ministers, representatives of judicial functions, we have more staff solutions ahead of us and I would like to commend this increase in the number of judges and prosecutors, which can only contribute to a more effective judiciary and make justice available to all citizens of Serbia. Yesterday and today, we heard some embarrassing statements concerning individual candidates which openly violates the independent judiciary, the independent judiciary, more precisely, since we have both prosecutors and judges, who should be the goal for everyone. We heard such statements from those who implemented the famous reform and "Operation 700" in 2010. It is a shame that the people who destroyed the Serbian judiciary are criticising today's choice of judges and prosecutors. Also, we heard from some MPs that they dispute the averages in the studies of certain proposed candidates. That's what the MPs said to whom, by digging up their hometowns, we can't even find our diplomas, and we're talking about averages. As someone who deals with practice, I don't think the average should be relevant for the choice of judge, prosecutor, that it's important for those who do science, but that someone who hasn't even passed law school, no other, obviously, slow average people who have finished serious colleges is at least embarrassing. I have no doubt that the best candidates will be elected in the day of voting for legal holders. I just have to challenge some. I personally have the choice of Mrs. Zivkovic as a court judge in Piroth and the judges, I did not write here well, for the First Basic Court in Belgrade, Boyat seems to be my last name, because I have some knowledge and I do not think they meet the basic criteria to be elected for the functions for which they are proposed. Comments from individual MPs dealing with the election of prosecutors and judges say these same MPs do not have the elemental knowledge or knowledge of the rights of the subject they are talking about. The choice of legal holders is extremely transparent, unlike the one we had in 2010 at the pubs, as you liked it. This time it is implemented according to the prescribed criteria guaranteeing an independent judiciary, which is a guarantee of legal certainty. I'll also look back briefly on Professor Ketcha's election, which was proposed as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. Personally, as a student who studied with that professor and gave me civil procedural rights, I can say that it is an extraordinary honor for me to have such a professor become a member of the High Council of Justice, regardless of the grade I received, which some MPs here would now call out who didn't study anywhere. As for the election of a new war crimes prosecutor, I hope that the new prosecutor we elect in the voting day will do a much better job than the previous war prosecutor. For those who have said that this institution should be abolished, it is obvious that they are not engaged in law, that they do not know that war crime does not go out of date and that such institutions exist everywhere in the world, so we should do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15675	The word is Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15676	Madam President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, we have several important topics. I will, of course, talk about the laws and proposals in the area of justice. Unhappily and in the way this Assembly is run, we have the opportunity to talk about them at one point in the agenda, and these are the things for which we as responsible MPs, as representatives of citizens, should be taken with full attention, and in that sense every choice and prosecutors and deputy prosecutors and judges and prosecutors for war crimes must be seen in a context broader than the biographies of candidates themselves. Respecting the people who have run for the places where they are, and I will not enter their biographies, I will talk about the context, the way they choose, the intransparency that follows this process, which leaves me with enormous doubt and makes it impossible for me to support anyone in the elections that you have suggested here. Thus, the situation in the judiciary, huge problems both in the judiciary and in the prosecution speak of the consequences suffered by citizens, the consequences suffered by institutions and the consequences suffered by the rule of law or by the rule of law. I do not need the MPs to remind you that in their constant progress reports, the European Commission reminds us of several key things that we as a society do not respond to, which you, as representatives of the profession, do not react in a way that would require that things that are solved and that many of them improve. The independence of the judges and I quote a report on the progress of the European Commission and prosecutors is not provided in practice that there is a huge space for political influence on choice, and that is unfortunately what we are yesterday and today testify to hear from the discussion of SNS MPs. To continue to comment publicly on the ongoing trials and investigations, which is a naked and vast space of influence and pressure. When we talk about the prosecution's election, that's what I said, it's much more important than the context itself about what the state of the prosecution is, which are all the problems that the prosecution is burdened with much more important than the very biography of the candidates that are scheduled. The burden of the prosecution today, a job one prosecutor is doing from a new Code of Criminal Procedure where today the attorney general has one working day for a job that the investigative judge has had for five working days, that we have a fact and that the minister said yesterday that we lack a large number of prosecutors. It's an area that shouldn't be put up with, and it's something that should be adequately responded to. So, on the European average, we have fewer prosecutors compared to the population, much less even that European average, we have a huge number of prosecutors who have not been elected to those places. It is a relationship to that institution and such a situation is totally unsustainable. The leak of information from the investigation and detention and the fact that the prosecution has not responded to such a thing for years, that such a thing is not just some practice that existed for five years, but, unfortunately, the rule that information from the investigation and detention usually appears in the same media that then conducts proceedings against certain persons. Those faces go through a media link, which represents a kind of and brutal and inadmissible attack and pressure and a message and a warning to judges, prosecutors that they should react. The non-transparentity of the election, and that's what my colleagues were talking about, is the fact that candidates who haven't passed, and we have some sort of rank list, which is not transparent or clear. We don't have the possibility of candidates who haven't passed complaining, to get an explanation that's why they haven't been through. We have amazing situations where the Information Commissioner has asked for the application of the Justice Academy Alumni Club to deliver the biographies of 17 candidates for the deputies we are talking about today and the incredible attitude that this represents some kind of official secret, professional biography of candidates that we should talk about. I don't know how it can be an official secret when we have those biographies. The prosecutor's office is far more important than the personal biography of the candidate himself. She has a broader interest in the public and these are things that shouldn't be repeated. When we talk about the prosecution and the state of the prosecution, we are unfortunately talking about the "Savamal" case, which is a brutal example, it is an event that took place and which hit on the basis of the rule of law. “Savavala” is a coup on the basis of the rule of law and unfortunately a symbol of this government, but the silence of the prosecution in the past year, and these days we will mark 13 months and unfortunately it is the mark of prosecutors. I don't see any reason why the prosecutor didn't come out constantly and inform the public and the citizens of Serbia about what the investigation was about. Are there any problems in this process? Is it possible that the one who did not prevent the collapse is much more important than who ordered the police not to respond to the citizens' call for help is his responsibility? Unfortunately, the prosecution's silent complicity in that coup against the rule of law, and that's something that's totally amazing. We live in a country where the Commissioner is suing More Public Prosecutor's Office because they do not want to give official biographies of the handling prosecutor for the case, 800,000 dinars have been punished, Serbian citizens are not paying for the prosecutor's work but these are absolutely amazing things. We have a paradoxical situation that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office is suing the Commissioner because the Commissioner has ordered the public to give professional biography and to say who is the handling prosecutor in the Savavala case because he allegedly violated the public interest and compromised the law. It is not clear what law has hurt or what public interest it is that prevents Serbian citizens from having information on who the prosecutor is, who has been silent about the brutal coup on the rule of law that has been going on for a year. Gentlemen of the D.A., everyone working on this case, resist the pressures, go public. If you can't handle these pressures, I'm asking you to get out of that place. It's a brutal blow to the rule of law and it's inadmissible for the D.A. to shut up about something like that for over a year. The influence on the work of the prosecutor's office, examples of political influence, commenting primarily by the prime minister, now the elected president where he says that one man is a criminal, that another man is the biggest drug dealer and that he needs to be processed, that the mayor of Belgrade is not guilty of anything, that he was not buying apartments, that his signature was a forger, where the main evidence and the main truth is a polygraphic test, that no one was guilty of the fall of a helicopter at the moment when there was no investigation, that “Savamalu” was not to blame and that he knew that he would even sit in that buffer and crash only by day, and not at night, and that everything else was fine. If something can be defined about parallel practice, according to all the positive regulations as a direct blow, as a direct warning and a direct message, these are unremembered pressures that come too far from the representatives, from the highest representatives of the government, mostly from Alexander Vukic. When we say that there are media-political pressures, and even the High Council of the Judiciary has responded to the behaviour of TV Panchevo, about a brutal campaign against the judge, that this is an inadmissible attack that unfortunately on this TV Panchevo also showed family opportunities and photographs of family members, which is obviously the manner of this authority and only because the judge was honoring the verdict by private SNS officials against a journalist. So, this playful, unfortunately, for five years now, well-played political-media propaganda that brutally violates the presumption of innocence, this constant leak of investigation and detention information is something that, unfortunately, you don't react either. Just a few words about the election, i.e. the proposal for a law on judges, I will speak when we have time on amendments, it is a parrexance, a political message, and every argument that it is put in the same relationship with the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation is the fact that all the polls on judges say that the highest pressures, under one, are from representatives of the political authority and two, by the president of the courts. Today, we are trying to provide them with a double mandate that they could have eight years in office. Eight years of legal space on the influence of judges, and that's something we'll talk more about in the amendments. So the choice of war crimes prosecutors is unacceptable that Serbia has not had war crimes prosecutors since December 2015. We have the Prime Minister's constant announcements since December 2016, that he will be elected within the next seven days, so in November he said he will be elected next week and that it is the government's fault that we do not have a war crimes prosecutor. A report on a small number of cases and domesticities that coincide with the fact that we don't have a war crimes prosecutor, that it's less and less every year. What is crucial, what is important for every country, and especially for a country like Serbia, you know, the relationship to war crimes is a relationship to our past, and our common obligation is to pay our utmost attention to it and that the prosecution is absolutely chasing anyone who has committed any crime, and especially those who have done such a thing in the name of our country, it is our obligation to the future, unfortunately the relationship that we as a society, which this government has with the War Crimes Prosecutor is a relationship to war crimes. We have the fact that Serbia's President, still Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic, leaving the president in a brutal way, campaigned against the previous war crimes prosecutor, even warning him of where that man's idea of him digging through Serbia might well consider the war crimes prosecutor what he's doing. These are incredible pressures. Amazing warnings and amazing messages. Unfortunately, all that came after Mr. Vukčević's term of office, the fact that we have political values, an argument why this man is not listed in the lawyer's book, is something that absolutely represents the country's relationship to war crimes. Respecting the weather, leaving time for my colleagues, we're going to talk more about amendments, I think these are key things, and that every context of the election must be discussed in a context broader than the biographies themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15677	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I've already said, as far as the prosecution's work and the Special Court of War Crimes are concerned, would be sufficient reason to hold a special parliamentary debate and to request a report on the work of the Special Court so far. Of course, it has not been implemented through our legal system as a special court, but by all characteristics it is the Special Court, and there have been so many legal scandals that the simple situation becomes unbearable. And today's election of a new and chief prosecutor doesn't mean that things will change. It may change a little, but all other structures remain the same, which is the structure that is used to receiving orders from US and other Western ambassadors in Belgrade, a structure that is used to traveling abroad at any moment, to negotiate with Serbian enemies how to persecute Serbs. And those of all the scalps that hanged on their walls have almost exclusively Serbian scalps, you remember when the domandants came to power, that Kostunica gave up a few hundred, or over 1,000, 1,300 Albanian terrorists who were to be prosecuted before our courts, and such a situation has been maintained to this day and it is rare when someone tries to judge who is not a Serb. We saw the case of Tuzla, Jurisic, who has all the evidence that he participated in the massacre of JNA soldiers, about 150 soldiers were killed in May 1992, simply eventually released. Released, as they say, due to lack of evidence. What will remain the biggest shame for the overall Serbian judiciary, I think it's the Ovcara and I think it's Srebrenica. The sheep are still covering up. First, Kostunica began to cover up Ovcara, and it was all agreed to prosecute some territorialists and some volunteers of whom some really participated, and some were not in that place at all to cover up the role of military security officers, primarily General Aleksandar Vasiljevic. I published a book of selected documents from the process with a specific title, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic read this book, titled "Political partner of the whore Del Ponte and the whores of Del Kostunica". And in that book, I have published the most interesting documents that speak of monstrosities during this process. And the process stopped. People are released, nothing's happening. For example, the other day I spoke to Predrag Milojevic, a Chinese man whom two false witnesses slandered that he was in the Ovcara, that he was in the cave and that he was verifying the victims of the 357 magnum revolver, and I had a Croatian artist who was on the spot digging corpses and casings, confirmed in The Hague that no shellfish was found, and here one policeman still receives the police salary of Spasoje Petković Štuka, another world for whom there was no place on the trailer when they were taking prisoners to the shooting, so he ran through the fields by chance and he did not miss, this is Božo Latinović called Boro Kraišnik. And he's privileged status, false statements and everything goes away. You see, the crime in Ovchara was between November 20th and November 21st. The Geydin Brigade was on the Ovcara and security officers by November 23rd. Here I can trust Sljivancan that he didn't know that the shooters would be the ones he drove to Ovcar, but what he did the next day as a security officer of the Gajdin Brigade and a security officer of the South Task Force. Has he asked himself the next day, and where are those for whom I have not received any regents? Colonel Vojnovic, when the Gajdin Brigade left, became commander of the town of Vukovar, and when the shooting was done, he was commander of three villages covering both Ovcara and had no idea about Ovcara. He was commander of the town of Vukovar for several months, which means that there was no military government, there was no civilian government, and that military government had conducted the exhumation of all corpses in the Vukovar area, and they were properly buried in the Vukovar cemetery. Every body is marked. If anyone was unknown, with special markings that enabled a later identification. Only the Shepherd was not chosen until the foreigners were interested. So Ovcara is ready to be a major Serbian compromise when it is needed by Croats and Western forces. Why did Alexander Vasiljevic organize the shooting of 200 prisoners on Ovcara? Because he is the head of the military security service, the organized famous group "Opera and Labrador", which had been tasked with planting a bomb on the building of the Jewish municipality in Zagreb, to plant the Ustashas, and then at the Jewish cemetery, in Mirogoj, etc. The Ustashas caught that group and they sang there, in Croatian prisons. Then Alexander Vasiljevic was blackmailed. To get hold of those people who were arrested in Croatia, he was fulfilling Croatian orders. First, he personally took one plane by transport, full of Ustashas from Vukovar to Zagreb. He unloaded them there, and loaded his men, and then on Ovcara he shot exactly 200 prisoners, which was ordered by the Croats, and with Vesna Bosanac he made a list of who to shoot, and they were mostly political opponents of HDZ, that was that city fuck, drunkards, breakthroughs, mostly, there were few more serious people. There were seven people whose identity they couldn't determine, which means they were strangers. The DNA analysis didn't help, and no one in Serbia is responding. The Justice Department knows that, right, Minister? You know all this better than I do. And the minister before you knew and the one before him also knew when she was the minister, what was her name, Snezana Malovic, the Dosmanli minister, and she confirmed that she knew all this, but no one was allowed to start, was that so, Natasha? So you know it all, and no one can run it. About Srebrenica, there are no secrets about Srebrenica. About 1,000 to 1200 Muslim prisoners were shot, and it's a war crime to shoot prisoners of war, and there's no other crime. No woman was shot, no child. There were some who didn't have a uniform, you know, not the whole 28th. Division had uniforms, but they as an organized combat unit broke through Srebrenica to Tuzla and fell into captivity along the way. Here he recently died of Lyubish Bear and took a secret with him to his grave. He was sentenced to life as a direct executioner on the ground. Whoever gave the warrant, now it's a little harder to determine. He didn't speak, but we have special Muslim sources that Clinton asked Izetbegovic to organise the death of 5,000 Muslims in Srebrenica. It was testified by Ibra Mustafic, who personally spoke to a group of Muslims with Izetbegovic, and published a book on Srebrenica, to kill 5,000 Muslims, and to cause NATO to enter the war against Serbs. Five thousand Muslims were not killed, thousands were killed, but it's hard to bid now. Crime is a crime. The crime cannot be justified, but it must be prevented from being tried by political orders by innocent people or people whose fault is much less than the organisers. These people who are currently being tried, they have no guilt whatsoever, in one natural way they reacted to the prisoner's rebellion. You know, when 10, 15 soldiers spend 200 unbound prisoners, and you relax with them, even more warmly talking, and one suddenly runs off and kidnaps our cop's gun, kills him, turns to others. Fortunately, the commander reacted caught by the pipe and turned into air. Those things were happening. Now there's a prosecutor who doesn't know what a firing machine is, and he says, "recorded in front of a firing machine." Asshole. Taken out in front of a firing machine. Where it takes place in front of a firing machine. You watched about Napoleon movies about what it looks like to be that crowded firing machine, line-up, when it comes to the older guy's rifles that are filling up on top of the pipe, and you saw a scattered firing machine being introduced when the blade rifles were introduced. So the rifles that are loaded in the back, and they're filling up faster and faster, the grains are fired, and then it wasn't possible for them to go into the folded firing machines anymore, because they killed them right away, everyone had to take care of their own protection in the scattered machine. He doesn't know shit about this prosecutor, and he's acting here. He doesn't know how many people allegedly shot. He says, "There were some who had been shot before them, so they fired, and then some came after them to shoot, and so in four, five, six phases. It can't be judged like that, and it's tried under pressure from the outside. The Kravica case. He was prosecuted in Sarajevo in front of the Special Court of BiH, and there is nowhere to be found that there has been shootings on many occasions, and people are sentenced to high sentences of imprisonment, and there are no genocides. And there's no difference between what the police did when they were attacked by prisoners and what they did to some military units that several groups actually shot. Why aren't our state authorities responding? In my opinion, we need to reconsider. I'd have a few more things to say, but we agreed to put some more stuff on the wallpaper, so Milorad Mircic will now say that. A parliamentary debate should be held on the Special Court's report on war crimes and his prosecution, and then, on the basis of all the facts submitted to us, we take the appropriate views. We live in a system of division of power. Each branch of government is relatively independent, relatively independent, but all branches of government need to control each other. We should simply as a parliament demand control, at least partial control of the judicial branch of the government that also applies to the work of the Special Court of War Crimes and his prosecution. One day, we'll seduce the order of the plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15679	Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15680	Dear Madam President, Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister, Madam Minister, representatives of the prosecutor's office with associates, we are talking about a very important topic today, and let me begin by saying something about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, and then on proposals for prosecutors. Let me begin by saying that this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, the honourable MP and the president of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, as well as the election of prosecutors, also hold a foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, who he presented to the MPs to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 9 August 2016. Gentlemen, MPs "repetio est mother studiorum", and then let's not forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Aleksandr Vukic is the most transparent, most concrete, biggest and best of all 72, the previous exposé of the Serbian government starting with the first exhibition of the Prime Minister of Modern Serbia, Mr. Prota Matija Nenadovic in 1805 until today. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you don't believe it, check it out. I am also letting you know, and I hope that you do not have any hands-on applause, hate and joy that the exposés of the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, are quoted in a prestigious international magazine on the "Schigo" list, (National MPs of the DJB Group: In which magazine? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15681	I'm asking my colleagues not to get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15682	I expect you to come forward, you who are a professor of university, have no diplomas. Let me say that it is on the "Scigo" list, an international magazine, thus for the first time in Serbia's modern history, an exposé of the Serbian Prime Minister, I quote in a prestigious international magazine. Whether it's true, gentlemen or not, check it out. I'd especially like to invite you to check on the university professor who throws it away. On page 52 of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vucic's exhibition, I quote – as far as the work plan in the field of judicial profession is concerned, strategic documents have outlined activities aimed at establishing expertise and accountability and efficiency of higher quality of justice. In the next period, attention should be paid to reforming judicial professions, completed quote. It is this draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges proposed by the honourable MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, who is heading in that direction. (Vojislav Seselj: Did you read his book? ) The essence of the amendments to this law concerns the length of the term of office of the President of the Court. In the future, they would be elected for a period of four years, with the possibility of being re-elected to the post. Thank you for your culture. The bill also provides for the President of the Court, who during the term of office, to end the office of the President of the Court only after the end of the term of office. Of course, the decision is made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday you said you didn't understand how these changes are going. These changes go towards a consistent application of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines the position of the judges and president of the courts in order to achieve efficiency, or more effectively the work of the courts, and thus the exercise of citizens' rights in court proceedings. I have no intention of making this broader because yesterday it is more quality, more professional and responsible, I can say, than I was explained by Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are also discussing today the election of war crimes prosecutors. Let me immediately say that this is an extremely sensitive topic and a very responsible prosecutor's job as a prosecutor. As an independent state body in a double role criminal procedure, it is very important to say about the role of the party in criminal proceedings and the role of the state body, which many here forget, is in charge of representing the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, and the state's highest national interest in the Republic of Serbia is to establish truth and justice. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of disputing the list of prosecutors, except for two candidates, and this is Marina Zivkovic, the Supreme Court in Piroth and Natalija Bobot, the First Basic Court in Belgrade, as counterpart Pilja said, because of competence and expertise. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia and honourable MPs, allow me to say a few more sentences about yesterday's discussion by the Ministry of Justice, in discussions without arguments, and individual judges. Let me just tell you the truth, and you know I won't say anything by heart, and I'll quote that during the former regime's party, the judiciary was the worst in Europe at the assessment of European officials. Some judges died of injustice, and some committed suicide. During the former regime's party, one of the biggest scandals in the history of the judiciary was made. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they chose a dead judge, the late Ljubis Ristic of Požega for the judge, and their chairman of the High Council of the judiciary, Nata Mesarovic, said, quote, that all candidates were checked and that they spent 200 hours checking, finished the quote. The honourable MPs, she did not explain to me, neither to me, nor to you, nor to the citizens of Serbia, until today as she was just checking, questioned dead Judge Ljubisa Ristic, which she claimed to be. How, gentlemen from the party of the former regime, to justify the fact, and yesterday you said that politics interfered with the election of prosecutors and judges, that you chose to judge Mrs. Sonja Brkic, who violated the Law on Judges, because at the same time she served as Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the President, believe it or not, RIK, and you know, gentlemen who deal with the judiciary, that the Law on Judges expressly prohibits it. But it's not just a problem. The problem is that she took 2,673,000 dinars illegally in RIK. Dear People's Messengers and gentlemen, she refused to pay that money back. Gentlemen of the party of the former regime, in the election of judges and public prosecutors, you did not adhere to both expertise and training, and at least perseverance, not to mention that you had one assistant minister without having completed the Law School. This is confirmed by the European Commission's 2010 report, which, among other things, states: "Reforms implemented by the government", means the former "in Serbia is a special concern", completed a quote from the book "Court Reform in Serbia 2008-2012", page 96, the same European Commission says, quotes: "The re-election process of judges", and yesterday you had objections, "it was non-transparent, risking the principle of independence of the reform implemented by the authorities. They were like the worst thing possible. “, the final quote, the European Commission's report also translated the esteemed "Politics", 07/07.2012. So much, gentlemen, about your remarks yesterday, and you check mine and deny me. In the end about this law. You know that by the arrival of Mr Nikola Selakovic, former justice minister, the situation has improved, although there are still some problems, but current Miss Minister Nela Kuburovic continues to improve the situation day by day. It'll take a long time to get the judiciary back where it belongs. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me now to say something about the prosecution in The Hague tribunal as one of the witnesses in the trial of the century, as a witness to Mr Slobodan Milosevic. I'll tell you right now, I've never been asked by any of the press before, and at first I'm going to say that there are terrible human fates that still the press doesn't know about, and I'm going to finally tell you who did it. Allow me, when it comes to crimes and the UN tribunal to say that this court is very strange and founded and very strange, not only the court but also the prosecution, they acted. When it comes to the crimes of Croats against Serbs in Croatia, but also other peoples, but in the first place against Serbs in Croatia, I see that Mr. Rakocevic laughs at the victims I mention, and then it is true that numerous crimes against Serbs in Croatia are not punished during and after the Croatian criminal action "Storm". Gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the criminal action "Storm" is the biggest and most monstrous crime against the Serbian people west of Drina and Europe's greatest pogrom since World War II. I am not only telling you this as a folk MP and one of the witnesses of Slobodan Milosevic, but I am also telling you as an expert in this area. In eight days, Croatia expelled 280,000 Serbs and 280 Precrime Action "Storm" and no one has been punished so far. Dear ladies and gentlemen, to this day none of the direct perpetrators of the murders or under command responsibility for more than 1,500 killings of civilians, the burning of Serbian houses, entire villages and cities and systematic ethnic cleansing by the action "Storm". Croatia could have been in the 1990s, but did not want to face its long-standing criminal past directly. Instead, to give up Ustasha ideology, it continues to today to force Ustasha ideology based on hatred and destruction of everything that is Serbian. You know that well if you follow well. Today Ustasha ideology is one of the foundations of Croatia's policy which, unfortunately, seeks to reshape the collective consciousness of Croatian society, which is devastating not only for Serbs in Croatia but also for Croatians. You should not be surprised that the Croats have re-set the board with the inscription "for home ready" in Jasenovac, because today, unfortunately, Ustasha ideology has become Croatia's largest food. Robbery, murder of civilians, rape of women, burning of Serbian houses, and not only Serbian peoples, but also other peoples across Europe, desecration of church facilities is a primal feature of the Croatian national character from the ninth century to the 20th century. I wrote a book that I have been doing for 20 years – "The crimes of Croats from the ninth century to today", all of which are foreign sources, not over Serbs, but also over other peoples. In The Hague, Croatian butchers are not guilty, but that is why Milan Martic is guilty of bombing Zagreb at the age of 35 for moves, ladies and gentlemen, which he has taken to defend himself against the greatest ethnic cleansing in Europe since World War II, a criminal action called Storm, in which more than 250,000 Serbs were expelled. The same UN tribunal and prosecutors did not sanction representatives of Croats to date for their attack on UN-protected areas, nor did they ever punish Croats for the bombing and massacre of Serbs in western Slavonia in May 1995. What is most important, and I see that yesterday in the discussions, Mr. People's MPs from the opposition benches, it was not clear, gentlemen, the common knowledge is that you who at least have little right to know that The Hague tribunal founded an illegal body, a UN Security Council instead of the General Assembly. In the philosophy of law and law, if something is founded illegally, all decisions made by that body, and in the future that it will make, they are void. And as such, the Hague tribunal failed to satisfy justice until today, which it should have. The UN tribunal is not like that, although illegal, has led to reconciliation of the people, which it should have. The Hague tribunal has singled out one nation, which is the Serb nation, as the only one responsible for the violent crimes in the area of the former SFRY. This confirms my thesis and data that Serbs account for over 95% of those convicted in The Hague tribunal for over a thousand years. The Hague tribunal sentenced several guards in the camp of Celebic, Bosnia, and two Kosovo Albanians, a direct perpetrator of the lower ranking, to hundreds of thousands of Serb exiles, thousands of dead, injured. It is not true, if known, and it is known that The Hague tribunal is not criminally, that it is an idea creator, please pay attention to this, the idea maker of The Hague tribunal, the first president of that court, and hopefully, I think, and last, Theodor Meron said, quote: "Let us establish an ad hoc court before the draft, and condemn all Serbian leaders. It's the only way we can get them out of power. The people stand for them. “ A quote has been completed. Dear People's MPs, gentlemen of the prosecutor's office, the UN tribunal, as a witness, I am telling you that as soon as I arrived, I repeat before you, in front of the Serbian citizens, is the largest legal, biggest political and civilizational feces that the international community has produced. In the end, we were here yesterday listening to a national MP talking about how we should codify the UN tribunal's decision and The Hague court. She doesn't know that this court freak wasn't founded by an illegal body. He founded it, as I said, the UN Security Council instead of the UN General Assembly. No wonder she says that because she came from a minor parliamentary group whose group president, believe it or not, was a candidate for the president of Serbia and who listed KIM's secession from the Republic of Serbia in the programme. Between him, and it's about Nenad Cank, and Hashim Thaci doesn't make any difference. In the end, he is not the only one in this high house, and he is never in this high house as an MP, who has made such a thesis publicly, but the citizens have asked me to say, there are other MPs sitting here in this high house, and one of them is Cedomir Jovanovic, who said, quote, for the Republic of Serbia, "The Republic of Serbia was formed on genocide, on the Srebrenica genocide, on ethnic cleansing unrecorded in Europe after World War II," finished quote, 23.06. Gentlemen, MPs and distinguished citizens, I bear your request, precisely today here, 05th of April 2016 in 10 hours and 16 minutes, Albin Kurti said to B92 Info that he would like the Prime Minister of Serbia to be Cedomir Jovanovic and Zarko Korac, because they recognise Kosovo's independence. Furthermore, on 26.10.2012, Cedomir Jovanovic said, "The republican government needed and still needed Vojvodina to separate it from the Republic of Serbia and recognise its full sovereignty and it should be an independent country." Finally, the honourable MPs, as a man of the profession, I tell you the last sentence, there are two of the greatest stains in the history of the Serbian people. One was 13th of July 1813, when the leader of Karadjordje killed Nikola Novakovic, when he was decapitated, salted, filled with cotton and sent to Carigrad. And the second, 28.06.2001, when President Slobodan Milosevic was a group of people at the helm, among other things, and with one MP, Cedomir Jovanovic, when he was sent to The Hague by an innocent to cheat on Vidovdan. I'd like history to deny these words of mine, and everything will come out. Thank you very much, gentlemen of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15683	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is by MP Sonja Pavlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15684	Thank you very much. It was slow, but reaching, and so I got the opportunity to comment on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because a member of 108 is being violated in continuity, though selectively. I don't see why the previous speaker, and not only him, but also Mr. Risticevic, is allowed to violate Article 106. Because, let's say, as the figures all speak, Mr. Atlagic spoke for 23 minutes and one second, of which the first 11 minutes and 23 seconds were dedicated to the exposé and former authorities. Then there was one small attempt to hear something about this subject in the next three minutes and 37 seconds, which is why we got together today, and we ended it all up with eight more minutes and one second on other topics, previous regimes, previous authorities and exposure. Also, Mr Rističević addressed us with his white herds and mushrooms, vineyards and everything else that interests him in a completely inappropriate way and at a time when there is no need to discuss it at all. Since there is something good in every evil, I have concluded on the way that he seems to be in some kind of kinship with that famous family of Dedic, because he was so keenly defending them that I can't see another reason, so please, I have come to ask you, Mr. Chairman, although this applies to the previous chairman, to make sure that you don't violate the article 108 and to take care of the order in the Assembly, that MPs are kept on the agenda and that they are just talking about topics that are on the agenda. Thank you very much. Marko Atlagic: Just one sentence. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15685	You have no right, colleague Atlagic. I believe that colleague Atlagic was mostly on the subject, not always, but it is very difficult to assume the chairman of what any MP will say at a certain point. It's a broad topic, it's about selecting public prosecutor's office. You can't, colleague Atlagic, we're done. You spent 23 minutes. All right, one sentence, I'm just warning you there can be no abuse of Rules of Procedure. Mr. Marko Atlagic mainly based his discussion on the failures of the Special Court of War Crimes in the past. With the election of a new prosecutor, he wanted to indicate through his discussion that you should not be repeated or tolerated. I don't know why it bothers anyone. For the first 11 minutes, he was talking about the exposé of the Prime Minister, who devoted a significant part of the exposé to the independence and independence of the judge-holders and the independence of public prosecutors, as it says in the Constitution, and he quoted it as saying. I can't figure out what we broke the Rules of Procedure for then. Do you want to vote on the day that the National Assembly pleads for the injury? (Yes) colleague Atlagic, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15686	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, as I said, the dignity of the National Assembly - you explained the injury, but there is one sentence left to add. When I quoted the exposés, I wanted to say that this is the manner of every high-level MP in all the parliaments of the world, and the program, if they hold to their country, to their government and to our Prime Minister, we all need to carry them in bags, because it comes out of them big ideas.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15687	Ambassador, it's all clear. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15688	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will look to the prosecutor's section of the agenda and immediately draw attention to a number of open issues yesterday, which, unfortunately, have remained open to this day and have been launched by my colleague Marko Djurisic, asking for answers to today on several occasions of the repeated work on the biographic work for candidates for the academic period, i.e. the very length of the duration of study, the average, etc., which could give us as MPs certain instructions when the day of the vote comes. What happened yesterday, which is that the minister said she didn't think she should give us that information, you can't do it. You know that very well. Even if you believe that they are not necessary, when the Messenger of the people asks you about it, you are obliged to answer them. I really expected you to come today with that information. Since that didn't happen, we have until Vote Day, and I'm asking you to get all the candidates from you, not the Commissioner, all the information the MPs asked for for prosecutorial functions. What I am particularly concerned about in this vast agenda is the part concerning the prosecution, or the war crimes prosecutor. Having the opportunity to see the programmes of two candidates, Milan Petrovic and Snezana Stanojkovic, it is very clear that they have completely opposite or conflicting priorities. Candidate Milan Petrovic stressed the strengthening of regional and inter-regional co-operation in his field of action, with the exact same treatment for all regardless of national, religious or ethnicity. On the other hand, candidate Snezana Stanojkovic, in her programme, marked to review regional co-operation and also gave priority to crimes or cases involving Serb victims, which is, of course, the opposite of both domestic and international law and all norms and all frameworks concerning any war crimes prosecutor's office. However, we received in the working material as the first proposed Snežana Stanojkovic. For this reason, I point out serious reserves towards the majority who will elect prosecutors or war crimes prosecutor in Dan for the vote. What I especially want to point out is this. Even if we have the world's best candidates for war crimes prosecutors, I'm very interested in how they'll act when they're on duty, and especially if they're going to interfere in war crimes and investigate in such a way that they're not only dealing with perpetrators, but also what we've been carrying for a very long time as a terrible mortgage of our past, and these are war thugs. I don't have amnesia and I remember a 90-year-old war-breeding war-breathing minister, Alexander Vukic, who was acting as Minister of Information, therefore, former Minister of Information, and I hope that anyone elected as prosecutor for war crimes will start from the top of the pyramid, thus showing their autonomy, their independence, their professionality, that everyone is equal to the law and that they will question especially those who have bullied at war, and not just those who committed the crimes. Just yesterday, I was watching a video of a speech by Alexander Vukic from Glina, in front of people in uniform, military, paramilitary, that the D.A. should investigate, where he exclaimed calls for the creation of Greater Serbia, and I have no idea that Greater Serbia is only being created in peace, and, for example, only Greater Albania is in unrest. So I'd like to get those answers...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15689	Thank you, you've wasted your time. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15690	Certainly, the chairman, Article 107, and, of course, Article 104, because, first of all, the speaker did not speak at all about the agenda point. Article 107, because in such a harsh way, the public is deceived and certain government officials are insulted, especially with this story of war cooing. To remind a respected colleague and the public, Aleksandar Vukic took up politics in 1993. The war's been a long time. And it's totally amazing that someone who's a student at law school at the time can still be a war bully. And some who were the current politicians at the time, and where the distinguished colleague was in their party, advocated Srijem Croatia. And that's totally amazing what we're hearing here. And it's not the war-wrestles of those who are advocating the banishment of the Serb people...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15691	Ambassador, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15692	All right, I'm just asking you to respond that these scandalous statements really don't come public, because this is how the public is deceived. I don't think she'd be able to talk about it, because we could still talk about the war cooze, especially with her former party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15693	Vladimir Orlic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15694	Thank you, Madam President. Completely, but completely, unnecessary and totally unacceptable. So, in these topics and in this way, as we heard earlier, they're making some political careers, the question is, by the way, where and in what environment, let it be a question for whoever did these things earlier, it's absolutely below each level, for a number of reasons. First of all, with pure slander, we're talking about war-squawking, why? Because someone could give a word of support to their people when he was threatened, not to attack and point his finger at anyone else, but to encourage and help his own. It's called chugging, it's an honor. Unacceptable and much more unacceptable for a much more important reason, because it comes from those of whom it comes. Now let's go like this, everyone here and everyone who's following this is Ramush Haradinaj, right? They heard very well. They heard that Carla Del Ponte himself, as a prosecutor, said that this man was directly responsible for the brutal killings, the liquidation, the persecution, the rape, the deportation of people, for the same ethnic cleansing. He knows, not Serbia, the whole world knows who it's about. Now, to us today, by mentioning Alexander Vukic, such nonsense has just been said by someone who comes from the immediate surroundings of the electoral headquarters of the people who justified Ramush Haradinaj, who accused Serbia of walking freely and those who stood proudly with their new comrades, as much as yesterday, here in the House of the National Assembly of the same things, these terrible things, in order to protect Ramush Haradinaj, again. You give us some sense here. Let Serbia watch, and they'll be free to say another time, they'll hear this again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15695	Thank you. Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, please. (Marinika Tepic: Replica. There's no replica. (Marinika Tepic: Yes. What do you mean, it's gone? No, I thought there was no replica. You've gone too far. (Marinika Tepic: I exaggerated? (Laughter) Absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15696	Thank you. The Honored National Assembly Presidents, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Honored Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, fellow MPs and MPs, will refer to one law in my speech, this is the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Judges, which was submitted by the Head of Parliament and People's MP, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, because I think yesterday by opposition MPs no fundamental objection was made, in fact the only objection that was made to the fact that the head of the MP and the MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, was doing his job, or proposed to the Government, and the Government of the National Assembly the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. That is how the head of the SNS parliamentary group works, and the work and responsibility of the MPs, that is what is priority, both for the SNS and its coalition partners. Of course these are amendments and additions to the law, they're not big, but they're essentially very important and it's about being the Judges' Law itself. Why are they very important, and why are they very important? Because it is the duty of the MPs to monitor and control the implementation of the laws passed in the National Assembly. The MP, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, noted, and therefore proposed amendments and additions to the Law, that the current application of the Law on Judges, has some inaccuracies to be defined more clearly, and everything coming from the Constitution, from Article 143 of Article 4 which defines the Supreme Casation Court as the highest court in Serbia. For this reason, it is not logical for the Presidents of the Supreme Cassation Court, given the complexity of their election and the irresponsibility they have, to have the same term of office as the presidents of other courts. For this reason, it is proposed to shorten the term of office of the president of the other judges to four years, with the possibility of, of course, being elected once again for a four-year term, but that will, of course, depend exclusively on the efficiency of handling the judicial institution, or on the efficiency of them as the president of the courts. These amendments to the amendments and additions of the Law are also important from the point of view of the exercise of the rights of citizens, which is otherwise guaranteed by the Constitution and the rights of citizens to a fair trial, as provided for in Article 32 of the Constitution. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, and the Ministry of Justice in the previous period, has brought a number of legal solutions whose implementation has begun and which, in any event, affect the legal security of citizens, but also to improve the judicial function, i.e. to improve the judiciary in general. I will mention only some of these laws, which is the Law on Public notaries, or notaries, to which the Republic of Serbia has waited for 70 years and have been passed in the term of the government of Aleksandr Vukic. Also, I must stress the law on enforcement and security whose application began on July 1, 2016, and thanks to whose application, or thanks to the implementation of this Act, we have 900,000 less resolved executive cases. Therefore, in this way, the courts have been disbursed, and the dispensation of courts means an appointment of a more frequent trial, greater availability of justice to citizens, the possibility of more frequent trial appointments and of citizens to exercise their rights before the court within a reasonable period of time. I must also point out the financial contract relating to the construction of judicial institutions, i.e. the construction of judicial institutions' facilities, and above all to the building of the Court of Justice, the area of 25,000 m2, is one of the largest investments in the Republic of Serbia. I must also commend the reconstruction on Katanic Street, i.e. The military-technical institute, where they have already begun the work of the Second Basic Court, the Second Basic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the State's Major Prosecutors, and some courts from the Court of Justice have been transferred. The total area of this space is 14,000 m2. Also, I must point out that all these years, the government, 2014, 2015, has certainly given meaning to the promotion, that is, the construction of judicial facilities throughout Serbia, not only in Belgrade. At the end of last year, the construction of the Pancevec Criminal Court began in February 2016, after 20 years, the first building was built in Raška and it was just the building for the needs of the Criminal Court. I must point out that this project, i.e. the budget, provides for a million and 300,000 euros in funding for the completion of the work of the Uzic Criminal Court. With the Užica Criminal Court, it is also a business court. Of course, the SNS in Vote Day will support all the proposals presented.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15697	Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15698	Thank you, Chairman. I will try to point to once again the absurdity of the law, amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, that is to say, the fact that today's debate uses the opposite arguments in relation to the debate four years ago when the same majority changed the Law on Judges, which provided for the term of office of the President of the Court of Justice of four years and the possibility of re-election in words that the law is in line with the constitutional rule that the President of the Cassation Court is elected for five years without the right to re-election. It was a major achievement of SNS reform. Today, we can't hear what that is, what are the arguments that we're going back to what was old, what was wrong. What's that supposed to mean? I can understand the proposal that came from a fellow Martinovic who was not then part of the ruling majority, was in another party. But I can't understand the Minister's silence. She wasn't a minister four years ago, three and a half years ago. He was a colleague of hers from the party and that heritage I guess what was done in the previous period, at the time of the majority, and to explain that he was wrong when he brought here a bill amending the law to abolish the term of office from four years and extend to five and abolish the possibility of re-election. Now this is so good. It's a discussion I wanted to hear, but I can't come. The mouth is full of stories about how this will help more effectively the work of courts, and here is the example of the 9th agenda point – a proposal to elect the seven presidents who came to the Assembly on 31 October, gentlemen, last year, six and a half months ago. It's only today's agenda. How are those courts doing for the past six and a half months? Efficient and for the benefit of the citizens? Who's responsible for this? Who's responsible for six and a half months of this proposal being in the process and not being adopted? And we are talking about efficiency and the need for courts to work effectively and for the benefit of citizens. So how did they work in these last six months? Who is the guarantee of this majority who treats the President of the Court this way that it will change in the future? Not at all. We hear exactly the same arguments and discussions when it comes to electing a war crimes prosecutor. We can't hear who will be supported by most. The same argument - in voting day we'll support the best. A year and a half ago, it wasn't the best. The candidates before us today, one candidate received 75 votes, another candidate five votes from the MPs. What changed in a year and a half to expect him to now have a choice of war crimes prosecutors? We haven't heard anything, no argument, no support for their work, a programme they've put forward in the future. And we need to wait for the bell in voting day to see who gets elected. It has been a picture of this ruling majority and the way it has been managed by Serbia for five years. I am pleased that there was Minister Vujovic, who was not there yesterday, to say something about these loans we are due to take today. To say how 182m euros will be spent for a loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises? As the "Stub A" is realized, where it says this loan should ensure the rationalisation of public sector employees' income structures and the implementation of predictiveness through the adoption of the Law on Public Sector Payments System. Now I ask you, in this law stands until July 2017, and it was due to be by 1 January 2017, will be passed the Law on salaries of employees in local self-governments and AP Vojvodina. Will he be delivered by 1st of July, Minister? You know he won't. The government hasn't been working all year. The government will be down in a few days. We'll have a choice of new government. Will July 1st be adopted? He won't. And if you're the finance minister again, you'll have to go to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and say, "I'm sorry, we don't respect the commitments we've made." It won't be your first time, so you're used to it. But we're not going to give you support for that because you know that what you signed can't be respected. That's one point. Not to talk about the situation and what effects we have in the financial consolidation of the public enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija" and "Serbiagas". Can we even talk about it? We haven't heard a single word about it in the debate so far, and here you are, you sent us today, the government is only doing, here, a new two agreements on two new loans for EPS – 45m euros and for ESM – 15m euros. Is there any end to this borrowing without talking about the results? We are in debt on behalf of the EPS, and electricity production is less than 20% in January and February this year. Who is responsible for this, some management from 2012 or people who have been destroying the "Electroprivreda of Serbia" for five years? These are the things to talk about here, and without that debate, you don't have our support for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15699	Thank you. It's been a while. Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15700	I answered the word as a bill promoter. I understand that the previous speaker has been plagued by the results of the election that his candidate has been severely beaten. He's hiding somewhere in a mouse hole. No one lives knows where he is. I understand that the previous speaker is offended by the fact that he belongs to a party that is so powerful and powerful that he can't run for presidental elections for his president, but is running for progeny, as Marianne was, Murat Age Pusdevac. I understand that. I understand that Mr. Djurisic has one custom that Austrian Emperor Franjo Josif had. As far as I can see, Marko Djurisic sits alone and keeps saying, "we". That's what Francis Joseph wrote. He says: "We Franjo Josif order this and that. We, Franjo Joseph, order this and that." Isn't that right, Marco? A man sits alone without a presidential candidate, there is no living MP around him from his party, and "we will not and we will not and we are against and we are for this and we are for it etc." First, as far as the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges is concerned, the matter is quite clear. Njegos says: "Time is a master’s solution. They're gonna clean up these things. The children are having fun." So time has shown that due to efficiency in the work of courts in the Republic of Serbia, the quality of the work of the President of the Courts requires access to the amendments of the Law on Judges in the sense that on the one hand a distinction is made between the Supreme Cassation Court as the highest court in the Republic of Serbia, the president of which is elected under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for five years and cannot be re-elected and all other courts in the Republic of Serbia for which I, not ourselves, so I, as a national MP, have proposed that the presidents of the Court be elected for a period of four years and that they can be re-elected to that office and I also suggested that the President of the Court, who performs the working age of the judge and office of the President of the Court, shall cease during the term of office of the court. I don't see any reason why these proposals have caused such anxiety with Mr. Djurisic, who apparently believes that there is a group – myself and I have nothing against it, but I don't think the bill should create that kind of impulse because it is one change that can only bring good to the Serbian judiciary in my opinion. Mr. Marko Djurisic left the National Assembly session yesterday when he thought he was bored here, so he did not stay until the end of hearing the argument of the Serbian Progressive Party regarding the 2nd agenda item, which was also discussed by his former Democratic Party counterparts, as we further task ourselves, that nothing in Serbia's Elektroprivred, as the public debt increases, etc. We tried to explain yesterday to colleagues from the Democratic Party, we will try to explain to Mr Djurisic today that it was a 2010 loan re-programme, when Serbia's credit rating was much lower and much weaker than it is now, when we took loans at interest rates of five, six, seven, eight and more, and now we reprogram a loan at an interest rate of 2.2%. Now Mr. "we" can turn to the head, but the fact is that the Serbian economy and that Serbian public finances stand better than when "we" and his Boris Tadic managed this country, when we had a growth rate of gross social product minus 3.6%, and now we have 3%, 3.5%, we go to 4%, when our credit rating increases, when we can help the workers of "Gosa", which Mr. "we" ruined in 2007, when the factory is privatised. So these are all arguments why it is necessary to support this draft law in item 2 of the agenda. Also, Mr "we" couldn't hear the Serbian Progressive Party's argument yesterday that for the first four months of this year, we were able to repay 700m euros and bring down public debt, which shows that the government policy of the Republic of Serbia, that the finance ministry policy, that Alexander Vukic's policy is absolutely correct and that it has led to the recovery of our economy and that we have recovered our public finances and that you will be able to support Mr Vujovic in the day of voting and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the full support of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group and our coalition partners for the draft law on item 2 of the agenda, and whether Mr "we" will support your bill, it is now up to decide that after hearing the arguments and other MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15701	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15702	Thank you very much. I'll just talk about the facts. So, in the proposal for this agenda point, you received both in English and in the Serbian document accompanying this loan. We felt that we did not need to explain to you the general nature of the so-called programming loans, since these funds go for general use in the budget, and the programme section refers to things that were mostly fulfilled before the World Bank Council was considered in general, and that in the confirmation of the 5th Serbian translation, the points of Column A, Column B and Column C are listed individually all of the things that were done before the Council of Directors. So Column A - the borrower adopted a framework for monitoring the implementation of the Law on the deadlines for the settlement of monetary liabilities, the borrower passed the Law on the way of determination, we passed the first ceiling with all the dates and numbers of all the projects mentioned here, the borrower adopted the Law on the Payment System, it was that general law, a year ago it was passed. Only "Pepu 2" credit may consider what you're talking about, "Pepu 1" is already done, so it's all done, let's move on. Prior to the Energy Agency's advice, the borrower brought agreement and the Energy Protected Persons' Programme and the EPS restructuring programme, brought the National Labour Optimisation Board programme to the EPS, the plan for the financial consolidation of "Srbigas", listed taxfully, with all the documents listed, the dates of publication in the "Official List" and everything else. I think we really need to respect the facts. Here we are talking about the ratification of a document that has already been adopted with a bunch of documents that have been brought in. Therefore, for the sake of accurate information – it all exists. Do we have the strength to continue, which will be the subject of the follow-up, since this is not the end of these reforms in this sector, it is a second issue and it is a matter of special debate. So this is all done. Secondly, this has been waiting months to be adopted and it is 182.6m euros. It's money that goes to general support for the budget, at an interest rate of 0.7%. Many loans are 6.7%, the average interest rate of our second is 4.31% with debt on April 30th this year. The debt situation was 24.15 billion euros, interest rates were estimated to be 128 this year, not 135, as planned in the budget. It'll be better because it's more favourable to move currency exchange rates and interest rates around the world. So we expect to pay 128 billion, which is a billion and 40 million euros, which is on average 4.3%, 0.7% is six times cheaper. So we're going to pay this 182.6 million six times cheaper and pay back some loans. As long as we need it, counterpart Martinovic has already said here that we have 600 million less debt, that the deficit is less by 600m euros than we planned and that we have reduced the debt by 650 euros since the beginning of this year. We record every cent and lead very precisely. Therefore, we reduce the necessary borrowing, reduce the necessary funding, and this refinances the liabilities at six times the lower interest rate. If you don't think that's good, just to mention one thing that doesn't say anywhere, the World Bank has very limited resources and only gives them where they're sure that the development results are going to be achieved. Many countries can't even get nearly as much money per capita as Serbia has received over the past two years because it has proved to be a valuable partner who makes these things come true. Therefore, better functioning of the EPS. Are we done? No, he doesn't get the EPS money here at all. This gets the money budget for the implementation of the EPS restructuring programme, which is the nature of the 'divalopman polis louns', i.e. the programme loans, which extend reforms, and the funds for the budget. This is unequivocally six times cheaper than Serbia's average debt, unequivocally very good for the budget, very good for Serbia, very good for everything we do. If that's what we need to say even harder, this supports everything that's going on. The fact that electricity production in the first quarter didn't fall because someone wanted to, that's where all sorts of things happened, including bad weather conditions, and I hope they'll compensate very quickly, because that fall is not normal and it's not sustainable. Thank you very much. (Marco Djurisic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15703	Who's the replica? You have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15704	I wanted to get back to you, like Martinovic said about everything, about loans and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15705	He's the promoter, if you didn't know. Your Honor, he's the promoter. Just tell me who you want to replicate. There's no common replica in two minutes to make a decision you have to tell me who.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15706	I'm looking for a replica of Mr. Martinovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15708	Thank you. I still didn't get an answer from my colleague Martinovic, nor from the majority MPs, how is it now an argument that the choice of president of other courts since the election of President of the Supreme Cassation Court must be arranged differently, if three and a half years ago it was the same argument that the choice of president of courts and lengths, i.e. the possibility of re-election, was to change the law? What reason did this occur, and what knowledge was that, and what was the consequence of this change? He has a colleague, Martinovic, right to propose the law, like any MP, I have the right to do so. I have 15, 20 laws that I have proposed, none can ever come to the agenda and probably never come while we're in opposition. When we talk about how this Parliament relates and how we are working and what the problem is, not what the MP suggested, but the ruling majority MP, and it can come to the agenda as an emergency procedure, and the proposals of MPs from the opposition, there are over 60, 70 in the procedure, none can come to the agenda. But the problem is that this kind of change, when we hear this is fundamental, this is a crucial change, it's not the fruit of some public debate, it's not the fruit of some analysis, some data that will say it's because of this or that, but an argument that was used three and a half, four years ago, now it just turns around and says, let's do it differently. We can't know what it is and what it has led to, and that's what we're asking to hear all this time. I'm sorry you won't give me a chance to answer to Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15709	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15710	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already had several opportunities in the previous exhibition to hear that the process of proposing public prosecutors has not been transparent and that there has been great pressure from the political authorities to propose these candidates. Although it is for the first time before the MPs a list of candidates who have been proposed exclusively by the profession, by representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors and Judges who participated in the commission's work and who the government accepted without any hesitation. Since it is unclear how two candidates for the war crimes prosecutor have been proposed, I will have to get to know those who are not familiar with the procedure in which the proposal is being conducted. First of all, the State's Chief Prosecutors educates the Labour Commission, which values the work of public prosecutors and values the work programme presented by prosecutors, even though some MPs yesterday said they had no opportunity to get acquainted with the programme, today they present details of the programme, so I'm not clear on why they came up with this data. And this particular commission, consisting exclusively of prosecutors and judges, has carried out the evaluation and ranking of candidates and the maximum number of points, each candidate can get 70 points. Six candidates were reported for the war crimes prosecutor's election. The first-placed candidate got 69.6 points, the last candidate got 40.8 points. The state's major prosecutors accepted the list that was submitted to him and believed that the government should forward to the list of candidates who received the highest number of points, so it was proposed to elect one of the candidates for war crimes prosecutors, namely Snezana Stanojkovic, Milan Petrovic and Dejan Terzic. What I must also point out, that yesterday during the discussion, I have repeatedly said that the government has considered all three candidates and based on their bureaucracy, and, above all, the deputies who have acted in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and, based on their previous experience, are familiar with the organisation of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office's Office and are most worthy of being elected as candidates, so that these two candidates today are in front of the MPs. When it comes to the average assessment of candidates, I think there is a confusion here and it is not clear enough that there is a difference in the process of electing public prosecutors and public prosecutors. Public prosecutors and all the candidates we can discuss here today are persons with years of experience. They are mostly persons who have performed public prosecutors' functions before, and they are candidates who were elected during 2009, so no one has asked questions about their average assessments, and I don't think it should be hidden, either, but when it comes to the selection of public prosecutors who have long-term experience, the average score at the university should not be crucial at the time of the election, and it is not true that neither the State's Major Prosecutors nor the Ministry of Justice asked for information on the average assessment, data were requested when it comes to deputy public prosecutors, and I think that the State's Chief Prosecutors have fulfilled their obligation and provided information to the National Assembly when it comes to those candidates who are first elected to a public prosecutor's office and when we can even observe their average assessment. What I also want to point out when it comes to candidates proposed for war crimes prosecutors, I think it is true that one candidate in his programme has pointed out that he will suspend co-operation with regional prosecutors and will only commit himself to the processing of those criminals who have committed a crime against Serbian civilians unlike another candidate who insists on further international and regional co-operation. What is important is that both candidates who are in front of you today and that we can discuss and how they have potential to improve international and regional co-operation and the candidate who has been first placed also points out that it is necessary to improve co-operation with both the Croatian attorney and the BiH special prosecutor exactly when it comes to the processing of war crimes. If one in a work programme that one of the candidates pointed out where it points out that it should use the absentee trial institute to consider that the privilege and prosecution of those criminals who committed crimes against the Serb population, then I don't know what to say when we have dozens of proceedings that were conducted in the previous period and were just suspended when the defendants were convicted of crimes against the Serb population. What is important is that this institute has also been used in regional prosecutors, in the Republic of Croatia we have about 3,000 convicted Serbs just using the absentee trial institute, so I don't see why this institute couldn't be used in front of Serbian judicial authorities so far. When it comes to the election of the President of the Courts, I would just like to point out that here is an observation that six months has not been discussed by the National Assembly on the proposal submitted by the VSS, and I will remind you that you have had the opportunity to choose the Presidents of the Courts in 2010, 2011 and 2012 and that for almost three years in Serbia, we have not elected the President of the Courts, but has not been called up, nor published a contest for their election, so you have not wondered whether these courts can function or not. I think that with the candidates proposed today, there was no way to question the functioning of the basic and higher courts in the previous six-month period and period is not such a long period of time as to put up with criticism. If we are now changing the Law on Judges regarding what MP Aleksandar Martinovic suggested I do not see anything controversial in admitting that it may have been a mistake to change the law in 2013, because precisely based on the experience we have had so far in practice we have probably realised that in another way we can ensure the continuity and efficiency of the work of the courts. What is also important is that when it comes to the continuity and work of the President of the Courts, I must also point out the application of a single programme of solving old cases, which is brought on the basis of a programme that has been brought by the VCC, which has been in the past two years and how it has produced great results when it comes to reducing old cases and today we cannot talk about hundreds and dozens of cases that exist in litigation and guilt that lasts longer than 10 years. This was reduced to a minimum precisely thanks to the programme of solving the old cases brought by the President of the Court. It is precisely to allow continuity in the implementation of such programmes that I believe it is entirely justified that the presidents of the courts can continue and perform their duties even after the completion of the working century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15711	Thank you. The word is Millovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15712	Dear Presidents, ministers, fellow MPs, the election of war crimes prosecutors is crucial to determining the truth, disclosing crimes and processing of those who have committed crimes. This is also a strong reminder of this "Wall pays" in front of the House of the National Assembly who should actually be our conscience to all of us and future prosecutors for war crimes and us MPs. He must be asking us if we passed the conscience exam, if we did everything we could to expose the crimes and the criminals are being prosecuted. I have identified which candidate to vote for when it comes to electing a war crimes prosecutor. But I can't be satisfied with what the D.A.'s work on war crimes so far is. In one part, those who committed crimes against members of other nationalities were prosecuted, and I support the job. However, I think it is absolutely not enough to process the crimes committed against the Serb people and during the war in Croatia, in BiH, especially at KIM. That's why I expect the new war crimes prosecutor to solve some problems, first within the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, which I will point to, and then to the maximum commitment to processing those, and in absentia, if they are not available, who committed crimes especially against the Serb people, because we see that the situation in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Cosmet is not such that we can expect the courts operating in that territory to process those who committed crimes against the Serbian people. What I am particularly concerned about and, Madam Minister, I point out, in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, there are persons who have been illegally elected. It's an unprecedented scandal. He can't work at the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, especially at the deputy post, someone who, for example, ten days after the end of the competition filed an application for a deputy and who didn't pass the election through the Assembly. It's not just the job of the future war crimes prosecutor's office to solve, it's yours at the Justice Department. Can't allow forging documents. See the minutes of the meeting with the legal adviser of a Western embassy, where the prosecution, the then war crimes prosecutor, undertakes to inform once a month the members of the embassy of each case, of the course of the case. But that record has been falsified on many occasions, because what they said at the meeting and what's in the first record is much, much worse. War crimes prosecutor cannot be allowed to sue MPs who want to know what was done to prosecute criminal Ramush Haradinaj, to sue and interfere with the work, abolish his constitutional right. Sue him to the American ambassador. If such irregularities continue in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office in the coming period, then I don't expect it to fulfill its function. Then, I think it is necessary to examine the detailed and precise means of spending the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has received in the past period based on donations. That's not established. I have received countless objections, countless information from individuals who point me to these irregularities, especially the functioning of an NGO, now shut down, under the term “Transition Process Centre”. It is not about the amount of 5-10 000 euros or dollars, it is about much larger amounts. The impact on the war crimes prosecutor's side went two ways from individual embassies who were not interested in the prosecution of those who committed crimes against the Serb people, but only for those who committed crimes against other nationalities. Then, unprecedented pressure and unprecedented roles. I have to ask you, Madam Minister, how has no one explained the role of the Humanitarian Law Fund in the work of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office so far? As Natasa Kandic was age, I don't know if she still has an office in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office? They planted false witnesses on the basis of which people were convicted. Since no one has responded to a press release just before the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office since 14 November 2011, where, I quote, the Fund's director comments on the trial, the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office biasedly and unprofessionally, he enters the proceedings with a preconceived preconception of guilt and innocence. The proceedings of judges and prosecutors in the case relate to the persons who act, not to the content of the actions being taken, always taking place, pay attention to this, from the point of view of their own interests, that, at any cost, without the existence of valid evidence, it is our country, i.e. Serbia's state is responsible for all crimes in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo, not the perpetrators themselves against whom the proceedings are being conducted. So it seems to someone in the interest of all these years that the state of Serbia is being designated responsible for the crimes committed by everyone else and that only the Serb people are being declared a criminal people. I point out these irregularities and legitimate doubts because I think all this has affected the work of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, and that is exactly the effect of having an extremely small number of indictments filed by the war crimes prosecutor against the Serb people. What was that excuse for no trial in absentia? Well, no Albanian who committed crimes will be convicted then. Concealing evidence of crimes against Serbs, I have talked about it on many occasions and it is extremely important. This was happening at the top of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, and these people have to bear responsibility for this cover-up of crime. During 2011, police officers of the War Crimes Detachment Service found out that there were tens of thousands of unprocessed statements of persons coming to Serbia from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina during and after the wartime events, which were collected by representatives of the Committee for the Collection of Crimes against Humanity and International Rights, as well as representatives of the Serb war victims' Association and delivered to the war crimes prosecutor for further work and treatment. In their original statements to Serbia's police and judicial authorities, they avoided persons testifying to their deaths and the deaths of their countrymen, often citing the names of war criminals, Croats and Muslims, in their statements. Untimely processing and keeping such valuable material in the prosecution's warehouse by the end of 2011 have made it very difficult to investigate and prosecute war crimes committed against Serbs in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as to defend the Hague indictees who did not have access to this documentation. Who did that? For whose interest? Who pays people who work for war crimes? Or, look at this, one of the complaints that I received as an MP and president of the KIM Committee. How can it be said in the complaint that on May 5th 2012, the prosecutor believes that the criminal acts described are a war crime against the civilian population, it is about Albanians who were accused of crimes, and on June 1st of the same year that they are not war crimes, but association about terrorism and that they fall under the Amnesty Act? If this is in accordance with the law, then I really don't know what acting by law means. Also, in the coming period, I expect the future war crimes prosecutor to take off the complete edge of people who are highly top-notch, led by the discovery of the truth, to do their job as journalists and in the case of "The Journalists, the War Hoofers". Those who invented the case are aimed at hiding the crimes committed and committed against the Serbian people both in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Cosmet. Finally, I think that from the new prosecutor, I sincerely hope that this will be the person I have defined to vote in the voting day, we will still receive very active support from the Working Party, which was formed by the KIM Committee, to collect evidence of the crimes committed against the Serb people. I fully support these criteria, Madam Minister, when you said that, in addition to regional co-operation, which should continue, this is the second part of our conscience that must always be clean, that criminals should be prosecuted in absentia if they are not available to our authorities and that greater attention should be paid to investigating, detecting and processing crimes against the Serb people. Because if not we, if not the state of Serbia, who's going to process all those who laugh like that and laugh like that now that we're showing the Wall of Pay here? It's our conscience, it's the job we're about to do in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15713	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15714	Dear colleagues, honored guests, I have about seven minutes to say something about 43 points of the agenda, or 44 points, which, of course, is an impossible mission. This debate that we attended today shows only, even when it is most well-intentioned, how wrong and shortsighted it was to sum up all these points of the agenda. That doesn't even match the colleagues of the ruling majority, and that way we respect the importance of the points that we've been talking about here. We see that some are interested, some are personal, and we should all be interested in the work of the War Crimes Prosecutor, some have read their presentations and spent all the time on the subject. So why isn't that a special subject? I agree with the good part of this argument we heard about work problems and the need to be different and when it comes to the processing of crimes against Serbs, I agree. Why, then, fellow gentlemen, how would you like it, comrades, brothers, why didn't you single out a whole session for that? This gives the impression that the grandmothers and frogs are put together, and then we ourselves seem confusing, especially to the citizens who are watching us because we can't talk about any of the subject over and over again. It's about the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. Then, we have a point regarding the prosecutor, it's a completely different topic, the third is loans, and the fourth is, what fellow Martinovic, the Law on Judges, suggested. These are some four logical continents that we could discuss as much as we could and that everyone could somehow come up with a word and an argument. For that reason, I will take the opportunity to ask Mr. Vujovic very concretely, not to be in vain all day, the same numbers, and without political desire for any point and without waving numbers, the percentages, how much and who won the elections, which we did not participate in, but presidential candidates. So you're saying this is a very favourable loan. I can trust you with that. But if the balances of the state are so good and these authorities are so good, I ask you this common sense, and you will answer us, both to the public, so why didn't we repay the debt? We're still in charge. When we listen not only to you but to the representatives of the government, it often seems to me, so that's what the Prime Minister himself used to say sometimes, as if someone were giving us, as if we were getting a billion, as if he had given us something. Well, we get this, we get that. No, we're in charge, by the way, maybe better conditions than we were before. I'm glad if that's the case. But we're in debt, and we're in debt. And that's very important to us and that's what I want the public to know. By 2036, it's due and we can't do it before that, or we can just get it back on certain terms, right? That sounds very convenient, but it's a bit of a principle – it's my concern to move on to another. So, both Mr. Minister and I will probably not be alive by then. If there's a point and those flossules and phrases about our children and grandchildren being in debt, then that's exactly it. This is how we owe our children and grandchildren. I agree that it was probably done by others, perhaps more unfavourable. So, one thing, if we're so good, what are we raising, what are we pulling, what are we not returning from such successful balances? Speaking of these successful balance sheets, we heard from you, and yesterday I listened to colleagues from the ruling majority, as we have improved our balance this year and reduced our debt by 600 or 700m euros. When debt increases, then very often you make it very clear and loud and you especially point out that the good part of this debt increase was due to unfavourable currency exchange rates. Why don't we now say that out of those 600 or 700 million we've reduced, say half a billion euros is actually due to the fact that we now have a currency rate on the world market, so now the debt has turned out to be less. The second thing, you will correct me if I'm wrong, is it true that for the mandate of not this government but these authorities, since the change of government in 2012, you were not a minister at the time, but nevertheless, that debt was increased from $15 billion to $25 billion. It's a result that no one in this government boasts. It may have to, it may have been an inert factor, but the fact that the debt has been increased by almost 10 billion euros now varies depending on the exchange rate difference. It was said yesterday that 68% of gross social product is now the debt. When this government came to power in 2012, that percentage was 65% of gross social product. The proportion rose from 65 to 68%, the proportion increased. I commend the stabilisation in these sectors that you keep pointing out, but it is weakly acknowledged that there is this other side of the medal. Debt increased nearly 10 billion and, secondly, proportions went from 65 to 68%. As far as the proposal for a law on judges is concerned, just so I'm saying, you don't have to convince me, everyone in the profession knows or suspect that the proposal and the idea of this extension, i.e. the duplication of the practical, inability to re-election for the presidents of the courts, is motivated by very banal reasons. There are two reasons. One option is control, because the power through the President of the Courts is the easiest to control, it is easier to control one President of the Court than the entire court and many different judges, or at least the possibility of control. Secondly, if there were some presidents of the courts, and it's a public secret and everyone knows it from the profession, you can wave at me percentages or some labels now, that some important presidents of the courts are running out of mandate very quickly, and they need re-election. As some should retire very quickly, so this one was introduced, I would say, an unnecessary item, although I do not belong among the younger Members here, but should be realistic, that someone at 67, 68, or 69 years of age will not be so successful in performing his and his and his and her duties as judges and other presidents. So, some people are close to retirement, some pensions are looking forward to it, and some of them are running away, we know that. When you're younger, you usually say, "I can't wait for a pension," and when you're older, you say, "oh, damn pension." For example, some court presidents prepare for retirement, in this way they seem to be favored, and these are the presidents of courts close to the government, or ruling furniture. It's basically this story. All these sweet arguments that were drawn by fellow Martinovic I think they serve only to in some way mask that elemental fact. I wouldn't owe you any more. I'll stay when there's a discussion about the amendments. I would like first of all to hear the reply of Minister Vujovic, as well as Mrs Minister, and I see that she is not present at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15715	Thank you. Minister, for a moment, you have five minutes to rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15716	It'll be short. This question has already been raised many times, what happens around debt and everything else. A few things I just want to point out are very important. Debt movement data is published every month. Everyone has access to that data. If you want more detail, we can give you more detail, at whatever level of detail you can get one. Two, this specific loan is in Article 3b of line 2 with 182.6m euros, it was in the budget, it was made as an integral part of the projected budget and everything else. Under three, answer the question – how the funds are used. If you look at the document in addition, it says – the funds, under one, are immediately available, as soon as we ratify and get a legal opinion, the funds are immediately available in full. There is one restriction - it cannot be spent on extraordinary expenditures, which means that everything that has entered the budget approved by this parliament is all legitimate expenditures. So we use it for so-called. General government funding as if we've collected tax money either from donations or from anything else, there's no limit. There were once restrictions on weapons, on valuables, etc., now there is no such thing. So that's where it's all clear. As far as borrowing figures are concerned, let's just say some things, very important. We've been reducing it for a long time, so there's no dilemma, it just seems that way. We have since January reduced debt from 24.8 to 24.15 billion, that's 650 million. Of which, 180 million refer to curative differences, and 670 million refers to debt cuts. So it's completely consistent. You can get details from us whenever you want. These 182.6 million that were planned to contribute to the general financing of the debt of the state, to have a deficit, we can use the deficit, otherwise we'll use it to pay off the most unfavourable loans and thus reduce the cost of debt. We have a state of fiscal reserves moving, we finance what we have to and we pay back what comes for payment. It comes in terms of securities of value. So we finance the loans, and we pay off the records from the values that come in. To simplify things, if the charters that the state issued three or four years ago come in, let's assume, of 182.6 million, we'll pay it back. They're usually about 5-6%, so on this we're going to save 5%, at 180 million, that's almost 10 million savings. So this loan will bring us 10 million clean savings. The interest we will pay will be only 1.2 million a year and will reach 182.6 million in 2036. It is not (my) concern, but that we should remove the burden of debt for 20 years. For twenty years, we've been getting on incredibly favourable terms to use these funds because we promised to carry out reforms. We're getting funds for the reforms we've already made. This when it was on the Board of Directors, if you look at the list, these are all the things that were done in 2015, 2016. So they don't have any conditions left. A colleague, Djurisic, quotes something in the second document, which is our current arrangement with the Fund, where we have things we have not brought. This is all backwards. This didn't go to the World Bank Director's Council until it was accomplished. Therefore, there is no risk at all. The risk is on us whether these reforms will be completed and whether they will be done well. As far as these couples are concerned, this is our confession to what's already been done. I'd like to keep it permanent, so we don't get the money, and then we don't end it. Therefore, this dilemma of morality remains whether we will endure, but it is up to us, and it is not on them. Finally, as for public debt management and all other sizes, if you look at it, it's going to be terribly simple for you, just add up the percentage of the fiscal deficit with the figures you compare. So our deficit was 6.6% in 2014, so it was 3.7% in 2015. Those two numbers are over 10%, so that's 10% increase in that, you understand. You had to do this from somewhere. That was that inert we couldn't keep. Last year was only 1.4%, and that was all paying back the old debts. Collect these three digits, so this increase is going to make you 12-13% directly to the deficit funding, add project loans to it, and you'll get to the figures you're talking about very quickly. I really think there might be a need to arrange a special, informal meeting, round table or something where we can consider all the numbers to make it clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15717	Time. Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a 60-minute break. We continue work at 1502 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15719	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us with the other dozens of proposals that resolve the staff issues of a number of courts and prosecutors, and on the basis of previously established sublaws, criteria and criteria for selecting judges and prosecutors, which will certainly positively affect the already made shifts and efficiency in our judicial system. However, my attention will be particularly focused on the choice of war crimes prosecutors, so in this context I want to structuring the fact that the Republic of Serbia has manifested its commitment to all serious, mass and systematic war crimes being investigated, and the perpetrators punished in accordance with international standards, regardless of their national, ethnic and religious membership or the status of perpetrators or victims, as well as to promote the policy of reconciliation, tolerance of regional co-operation and good neighbourly relations as a prerequisite for permanent stabilisation and progress of the entire region. This definition was expressed through a previously established normative and institutional framework for the processing of war crimes within the justice system of the Republic of Serbia, including the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. In addition to the unambiguous definition of the Republic of Serbia that impunity of war crimes is unacceptable, the fact is that since the end of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, a long period of time has elapsed as investigations and the processing of war crimes have become more difficult. In addition to this objective situation, which is a limiting factor for the prosecution's successful work, in the past period, many weaknesses and problems have emerged, which primarily relate to what I would say. A small number of indictments made over one year compared to a relatively high number of cases during the investigation phase, as well as tendencies, an increasing number of war crimes charges compared to the previous period. The lack of clear and transparent criteria for setting priorities in the investigation and indictments, which resulted in the processing of cases with easier criminal consequences, while there were no cases against highly-positioned perpetrators. Unsatisfactory level of regional co-operation in the war crimes investigation where the main obstruction is being conducted by Croatia, which is primarily seen in the initiative of Croatian MPs, in the European Parliament, which requires a restriction on the territorial and personal jurisdiction of the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes. The poor quality of the evidence produced by the increase in liberating judgments, and in this sense I point out that in a total of 30 cases that have been properly completed, the verdict for 101 persons of which 68 persons were convicted and 33 were released. The need to improve the mechanism of protection and support for witnesses and victims of war crimes and the need to raise the level of social awareness of the importance of punishing war crimes. In addition to the above-mentioned weaknesses, I particularly want to apostrophe of the current selective approach to war crimes, which focused on the victims of other peoples, and when it comes to Serbian victims, as if it were not people, but a second-rate or third-rate category of people. This finding is based precisely on data that out of 178 indictees, 153 Serbs, two Bosniaks, two Croats and 21 Albanians, 17 of whom were released. In addition, it should be added that the BiH judiciary has confirmed the indictments of about 60% against the Serb nationality, and in Croatia as much as 90%. It is easy to conclude from this that the previous prosecutor was not sufficiently engaged in the disclosure of crimes committed against the Serb people in Croatia, especially the KIM. It's just amazing that many war crimes committed against Serbs in the KIM areas have almost been answered by no one, and a whole nation has disappeared from one space with a huge loss of Serbs and other non-Albanians, which is being warned daily and the "Wall pays" ahead of this tall home. Such a negative state of action imposes the need for war crimes committed against Serbs to be the war crimes prosecutor's priority. Serbia has strictly respected international law during the previous period, and in this sense it has the moral right to demand that crimes are punished and treated equally everywhere, so that they will never be repeated again and that we can all reach reconciliation by satisfying justice for victims. Given the identified problems, the priorities of the operation, I hope that the new prosecutor will be elected to the person in agreement with the provisions of Article 5(3). The law on the organisation of the jurisdiction of the state authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders, that it will be a person who has a high moral reputation, a professional who will not discriminate against victims, who will act by conscience and by law and who will do everything to expose as many crimes as possible and to be held accountable for it, regardless of nation and religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15720	The word has the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov. He's not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15721	Here, among these 43 points of the agenda in the united debate, it is mainly about the choice of judicial authorities, i.e. the judges, that is, two points related to financial transactions, namely the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement and the confirmation of the financing of all contracts. Since there are no representatives of the finance ministry here, the question is how much of the point is now to discuss these points of the agenda, but we Serbian radicals will, in any case, tell the public what this is about. In our opinion, this is about the financial assistance which is primarily intended to consolidate the situation in public enterprises, and in the second part, it is about building the facilities needed for the functioning of the judiciary, i.e. the courts, and that is the continuation of an investment programme that has been launched since earlier, but we would concentrate on this first point where the draft law on the validation of the agreement was. Why are we stressing the law? Perhaps this is the first time a law on confirming an agreement has been signed before and is in effect from earlier times. We have heard here from reason that these 182m and 600,000 euros, primarily for the return of debts arising from the earlier period by signing this agreement on much more unfavourable terms, much more unfavourable interest, and now, by signing this agreement, by adopting laws that will verify this agreement, and by means of the international bank, the Serbian Government proposes that, at much more favourable interest, the funds that will be provided, not only for the return, but also for the consolidation of the situation in public enterprises, and that of the public enterprises EPS, Serbia and the Railways of Serbia. It should be repeated in any case already known that the public enterprises of EPS, Serbia, and in some way Serbia's Railways, but primarily these two public enterprises, that there are more normal conditions, that this government and this government have some kind of project and some programme, we would be in a situation and guarantee that we Serbian radicals that public enterprises such as Elektroprivreda and Serbiagas help Serbia's budget, or contribute to Serbia's budget being filled, and not that Serbia's budget is additionally in charge, i.e. the Serbian government sign such agreements. It is not worth the arguments given by the representatives of the current government that they are in a position to put out the earlier fire by using these funds to pay back some of the debt on much more favourable interest, accusing the earlier authorities. It's already a matrix that's been working since the very beginning of this call. There's always an earlier charge of power. Earlier power is exactly the current composition of power, because this is the fifth year that the SNS is in power with its coalition partners and we don't see any logic of the thing that always uses this same matrix to accuse the earlier government. What is to come is to see realistically how much these funds will contribute to the consolidation of the situation in public enterprises such as "Electroprivreda", such as "Serbigas" and, ultimately, the railway industry itself, as it says in this agreement that the World Bank will control the implementation of this contract, but the World Bank has clearly prescribed the conditions which imply these agreements by predicting that the collection of electricity in the next period is at the height of 3.5%, by predicting that the programme that has been set up, and we on the Finance Committee have received assurances that this programme has been done by the government of Serbia, and in this agreement only talking about this imperative, that the government of Serbia, i.e. public enterprises or borrowers have to implement all the measures, so that it is a little strange definition. When you do the program and the project, how can you not stress that you are the same or the same person who will participate in the implementation of that programme, it is imperative that the World Bank oversees the implementation of this programme and that the World Bank has the discretionary right to suspend the payment of funds at any time if the parts of this programme are not executed, so we are interested in when, immediately after the signing, or voting of this agreement, when you will inform the citizens of Serbia that it will happen and when it will happen, because if it does not happen at this height that the World Bank, which they have instructed, then how do you expect to make these funds on such very, very favourable terms? There may be little sarcasm when we talk about very favourable conditions, because, as they say, who knew the World Bank and hell is easily falling on it, so believe that the World Bank is something different than, for example, working on commercial banks, that's something that's just obvious. They always have very strange instruments when they control the borrower, i.e. when they clearly stress that their programme should be implemented, and the programme in the area of consolidation of public enterprises, such as "Electroprivreda" and "Srbigas", is always a potential danger of holding very, very important levers when it comes to the country's budget revenues. That's why we Serbian radicals, among other things, are principally against any loans, any loans. If it's got to be done by now, then you need to think it over. The truth is, it confuses us a little bit, as the public is increasingly experiencing information repeated by the Prime Minister, and also representatives of the ruling majority, to record a growing and larger surplus. Then how come all this need for all these loan and loan agreements to be up-to-date when we have the extra money? There's one explanation we've heard, which is that there are other obligations that are more important to this country and some loans that are under more unfavourable conditions. We think that everything is very important, very important, especially important is the functioning of public enterprises such as "Electroprivreda!" , that is, the Public Enterprise “Srbigas”. To be clear, the monopoly position of these companies allows for a much more favourable position and, ultimately, if you want to run these companies as public enterprises that have no competition, deal with the production and supply of energy. This is also a broad range of competitive action, and there should be no problem. Simply, man cannot believe that this new pro-European current, which has been in continuity for 17 years in power in Serbia, cannot possibly find a recipe from many of its reform programmes that public companies in the field of energy production can put on their feet, how to operate, at least not with losses. We didn't expect that a magic wand would turn into some big income or some big gain to be, but we expected to stabilize the situation in public enterprises. We are aware of the situation that political-like personnel have been brought into public enterprises. We are also aware of the adventure that has prevailed since 2000 in this area, that no matter, public enterprises are the general good that should be available to the ruling coalition, and most of them draw funds when it comes to holding elections, when it comes to sponsoring, when it comes to funding the activities of some political parties, but Serbian citizens can no longer watch it. No matter what they're aware of, like us, they can't look anymore and they can't stand to cost them all and get out of their pocket all those adventure ideas that the ruling coalition has. So we have a situation where we can discuss this topic when these agreements and agreements are on the agenda. We have never had a agenda point so far that we will discuss when it comes to public enterprises of vital, vital importance for all of us in Serbia. We have pointed out and warned earlier that this chaos, the government's public enterprise "Electroprivreda" and "Serbiagas", must be negatively reflected and that it will ultimately cost the state of Serbia dearly. You did not want to, or for some other reason you disobeyed the warning of us Serbian radicals. Of course, we're not taking on the exclusive right that we were just warning ourselves. They warned many, and besides Serbian radicals, and here we are in a situation where, year after year, we sign a contract, a loan agreement to consolidate public enterprises. It has this significance and policy of price and can't keep a man's eyes closed in front of that fact. Prices are too low, too low, but it must simply be taken into account what the social situation is, what opportunities in Serbia and according to the payload power must be determined by the price of energy, but to remember, you must be aware that the staff policy you are leading in these public enterprises has returned as a boomerang. You've been putting people in these public enterprises who went through the night to get higher education. These are those diplomas where you order your diploma today, and tomorrow you get a fast-track diploma, and you put people like that in charge of these public enterprises, and you can't justify yourself by saying -- former staff policy. So here's the "Serbiagas", in continuity is one director, from DS to over here. What have we experienced? We have experienced that the director and his associates have paid more than 10,000 euros in "Serbiagas". The total receipts of the director of "Serbiagas" are over 25,000 euros, counting that he is on boards, where "Gasprom" owns the stock, so it's amazing that a man with so many incomes so far has not been able to save, to place on a healthy basis the company "Srbiagas", but it's your personnel policy and that's something we're used to. Maybe they'd tolerate me if they could hold on to the citizens. We warn you by who knows which time you break up with this policy you must make sure that all these guarantees that Serbia gives are precisely in the property of "Electroprivreda Serbia" and "Serbigas" in the property of Serbia, they are guarantees that these loans will be returned, and when you come into debt slavery, then it is no longer worth having such a debate, and it costs you only to carry out human resources, to bring in at least people who are able to whom cars are expensive are not a status issue but a means to carry out their basic work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15722	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Mr. Orlic, you asked for the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15723	Based on the party's mention, Mr. Chairman, and I thank you for mentioning the party, because it opens up space for up to two minutes, a few more things to comment on. So this will be two minutes, first of all, to explain these questions. Yes, of course, there's nothing to do with the question of cars, official or anything else that we're discussing today, but since we've already mentioned it, it's not bad to notice that exactly the country that old Alexander Vukic is headed by the government and in this, and the previous assembly has solved that question properly today, there is no such luxury. When we talk about debt slavery and what these measures and agreements are proposed, it is precisely the purpose of that slavery not to exist, and the situation in public enterprises is the main motive for what is proposed under the agreement. Why mention the past power and which one, more precisely, than clear? So, it's been said several times, we can do it again. With what we are doing today, we are just treating the bad consequences and imposed commitments from the period up to 2012. So something that's better on terms today is that we solve the problems imposed at the time, and for those who earn and who do not keep it clear, here's a little bit on the subject of this borrowing that whatever they hear and learn. It says this - 31.12.2000, and the situation of 14,167 billion, 31.12.2012, 17.7. So we can learn two things, first of all, that what is mentioned by some is not true, but is 17.7. and secondly, to notice that they have been so successful, that they have left more debt than a decade of sanctions, wars and collapses. They were so good that that's exactly what we're dealing with today, that's why today's debt is falling. The whirlwind they built today has been stopped and has begun to descend to the side that is benefiting this country. I think this argument is welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15724	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15725	Well, this is about much bigger problems than, you're right than official cars. But something's not working out for you about the official car at hand. I live as a fellow citizen, director of Srbigas, living in the same city, so I'm seeing him with two expensive Audis. Whether it's a new policy, a restrictive policy, I don't know whether he's deaf or it's the price you pay for a coalition partner, I don't know. But that's what all the Novosadians see, see people in Belgrade, and that's something that gets in the eyes anyway. You can explain as much as you want to resist such measures, that you are rigorous, but you have to influence your coalition partners. Well, that's how the Democrats paid him, that's how the yellows paid him, so as soon as the first opportunity came, he turned his back on them. This is about a lot more big stuff, and it's about a crime that's in these companies. We have an irrefutable fact and evidence that in electricity, electricity is being stolen, sold on black, these losses in production, so you can't explain that it was caused only by weather conditions, so it wasn't always winter, it wasn't always frozen. In February, normal electricity could be produced. You know, you can talk once about it as an explanation, but this is about tens of millions of kilowatts being stolen, where you have a situation where the affairs shake Serbia and the public at the same time when it comes to building mini power plants and wind parks.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15726	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15727	Thanks again. And, the note might not be too bad to take care of the basis for the existence or absence of a basis for the right to reply, but still, thank you for the extra space. We're talking about official cars, is it possible that someone missed the news that was so loud and significant that in hundreds of days, there was a decrease in the number of official cars and that the action continued. What's the number now? No one can tell you exactly because it's a matter of abuse, official rotation and those blinkers. Well, when did that go away? So, who abused it? Of course, it is clear that those who burned and burned this country by 2012, and who banned this type of abuse and threw it out of use. It's that government, that government, that most of them, and that Alexander Vucic. That's more than clear. So let's look at each and every one of us, if we're talking about our neighborhood, but I'm asking you without going into personal accounts or any personal impatience with anyone. So let's take a real look. Let's put our hands on our hearts and say, "Is today what it's supposed to look like in a decent, civilized country or not?" And let's remember at the same time, and as was true until that year 2012. Otherwise, when we talk about that year 2012 and the period then, therefore, not only is this borrowing the cause of many of the problems that we are solving today, and despite what the state is doing in plus today, some of the commitments that have come to us from time to time, but they have some of their own deadlines. Well, we still have to solve it and do it, and that's why our job isn't done, but it has to go on. So, let's remember what the weather was wearing. In addition to that borrowing and the additional burden in literally, I have to use those words, mutilating the situation, when it comes to how this country operates and how it attracts. Five hundred thousand jobs lost in that period. It's something that needs to be made up and it takes time, and 130,000 new employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15728	Thank you. Mr. Mircic, you've been given a moment's right to a replica, if I give it to you now, then Mr. Orlic will return. He didn't speak negatively of what you spoke of, indeed. There's been an explanation and I'm asking you to get back on the agenda. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15729	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the D.A., today I will speak of two laws. The first is the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the first programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises. A short time ago, my dear fellow, he said that we were torturing this troubled people. Well, that's not true. The people just showed in the election how we do it. And you can see how we work, we have 55.8% of the vote. So this people aren't suffering, they're gentlemen who get things. We work for the good of this country. And how? We're doing a debt reprogramme from 2010, which the Dossow government took with an interest of 6.7%, nonsensus. We're taking the same loan now 2.2%. Well, let's see what happens to that 5.5%. That's what we need to tell the people, and that's exactly what I'm talking about. So it's about the people and the minds of the people. People never make mistakes. When you run a policy like us, you'll probably get 70% of what I want. The agreement was signed in January of this year and we got 182 million and 600,000 euros or 200 million dollars, and why? To restore the devastated economy. So, the point is long-term fiscal consolidation and transformation of state and public enterprises, especially in energy and traffic. Of course, everything is devastated. Since 2012, there has been an extremely large shift in the government's programme and key objectives, objectives that rely on managing public expenditures, as follows. First of all, we need to do a lot of surveillance and control over public expenditures, then deal with the rationalization of profits and bring real managers. So, to bring in public enterprises people who will know they're doing a job and that's what they should be rewarded for. The financial sustainability of public enterprises in the energy sector should then be improved, measures should be implemented that will lead to the improvement of Serbia's gas, specifically and Serbia's Elektroprivreda. These companies, unfortunately, we didn't devastate, but someone before us, and it's not true that they're working with losses, what happened happened. It's simple things that go along with a country, and I'm sure we'll make it right in a very short time. What needs to be pointed out is that we got a loan to pay back the principal by 2036, which someone said, again from my soap opposition, a debt for our generations. When you think about it, it really has nothing to do with the brain. We invest in the economy, invest in the improvement, because also for the sake of these children who will one day inherit us, and since we have an interest of 2.2%, then we really need to congratulate the Ministry and the Government on the complete. The World Bank is in charge of implementing the programme, and the finance ministry will be the supervisory authority there. So there's no kind of malfeasance as in the previous period. What still needs to be pointed out about improving the efficiency of public and state-owned transport companies, through a reduction of fiscal burdens above all, then a great support for the road sector should also be made to optimise the number of jobs, of course find other sources of funding. What else is to be said that the payment date should be 15 May – 15 November and that the funds are available until 31 May 2018. The second law I will talk about is the draft law on the confirmation of a financial contract, the improvement of the bodies of the judicial bodies B, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Here I would like to commend the Ministry of Justice's investment programme – bravo, for the simple reason it is about strengthening the rule of law, first of all, then the objects in which they are working are really below each criterion. We want to make a good business environment. Also, we order electrical installations in all courts throughout Serbia. So all the courts will be networked. There's no apology for an object that's already been dragged, for example. 20 years. What is important is to say that these sub-projects proposed by the ministry address a major problem in 22 judicial entities. So, in basic courts, in violation courts in Panchev, in Novi Sad and other facilities throughout our Serbia. The Republic of Serbia's budget accounts for 43m euros and for the European Investment Bank 41. The first tranche has already been and thanks to this tranche we have created, that is, renovated the former building of the Military and Technology Institute, and now it is a divine building for example by all European and world standards. There are already three courts and the construction of the Palace of Justice begins. Also, another facility is being created, and that's the Attorney General's Office of Organized Crime on Statutory Street. What do you say, just good for the judiciary. Courts are being renovated throughout Serbia in Užica, Kralje, Kragujevac, Zajecar, Novi Pazar, Sapac, Lazarevic. I'm so happy. Em, we strengthen the rule of law, the em people will work in an environment that is suitable and will be like in all cities of world and European. Bravo for the Ministry, Bravo for the Government. Keep it that way, it would be my pleasure to support the proposals of this law in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15730	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic. She's not present. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15731	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and above all, Serbia's citizens, today you have the opportunity to look at your small screens as the government led by the Serbian Progressive Party, you and your descendants who may not yet be born or are born this year is in charge of the new 200m euros. The deadline for payment for this task by the SNS is 2035. Which means that the children born this year will pay for the ignorance, intricacies and haughtiness of the government-led SNS. In six years, the SNS authorities, we only have one result, and that's borrowing. Deployment and new borrowing. In six years, the SNS authorities have entrusted the country to Serbia and Serbian citizens for 10 billion euros, and these are the exact data, and you can't kill it. You say you're in charge of the development policies of public enterprises. Let's look at how SNS has managed public enterprises for the last six years. For example, you shut down FAP after 63 years of existence. For example, at the Smederjevska Palanca in Gosa, the worker hanged himself, and we are not like some opposition party that only criticises. I welcome that the management of the state has come to Gosa factory, but I want to see if there will be something concrete from the visit to the workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15732	Mr. Milojcic, is that the agenda point? Is that about the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15733	What do you mean, it's not? Stop my time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15734	I'll make it up to you. I'm asking you to go back to what's the agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15735	Mr. Milicevic, a 186m-euro debt for development policies in public enterprises, I am talking about the state of public enterprises. Please give me a minute back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15736	Please reapply. Try to take out the card.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15737	What an obstruction when I answer my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15738	Mr. Milicic, it's not obstruction. Try another unit. Try signing up now. (People's MPs from the SNS group detest. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15739	Mr. Milicevic, by taking away my word, neither you nor anyone else in the ruling regime will give up the fact that you owe the citizens of the Republic of Serbia almost 200m euros. We're talking about the development policies of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15740	Mr. Milojich, you haven't figured it out. I didn't take your word. I just asked you to go back to what's the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15741	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15742	You can, of course. Here you go. (People's MPs from the SNS group detest. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15743	I don't know why that anxiety, Mr. Milicevic. Please let me talk about the agenda. Does this government owe Serbian citizens 200m euros for development policies in public enterprises? Yeah. I'm talking about the state of public enterprises run by SNS for six years. That's the way it is, I must repeat, that you shut down FAP after 63 years of existence. The situation is that the worker in Gosa hung himself because he had not received his salary for two years, had no health insurance, social security. I welcome that the top of the government has come to Gossu. We're waiting for concrete measures. Let's see if anyone can help these workers. Just because someone came to see them, we say hello. We are not a demogogue party, we are a state-of-the-art party and we welcome everything that is good for the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Milicevic, Serbian citizens know that Juri workers wear diapers and work for 15,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15744	Mr. Milojičić, you are trying to talk about the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement – Development Policy Programme in the area of public expenditure between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15745	Yeah, I'm talking about this government borrowing citizens for the new 186m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15746	So you're trying to talk about confirming the loan agreement?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15747	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15748	Is that what you were talking about? I once again kindly ask you to speak of what is the point of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15749	Mr. Milicevic, it is important that I, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are in charge of the Serbian Progressive Party, have understood very well the new 186m euros and have understood that this will be a shortage in their refrigerator, that it will be a shortfall in their tank and that it will be a disadvantage in their household. One question, I'm sorry the finance minister isn't here, if there's enough sugar in some house, so why are you going to your neighbor's to borrow that sugar if you say the government has a surplus, that public finances are never better? This is because this government is the worst government in the history of the Republic of Serbia and because public finances are disastrous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15750	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15751	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we are, turning our backs again, as if someone had mixed the pills. I'm advertising an article. 106th and 107th, in particular Article 107—the dignity of the National Assembly. Here's an example of how this dignity breaks. They're kind of smarter off my back. It's better to describe the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dignity was injured by talking about diapers and "Juri" here. To remind our viewers, "Jura" is an investor brought by the party of the former regime, it is undeniable. Number two, the mentioned speaker, who was a debt expert, who mixed up the football club in the palace and the municipality, so he chaired the municipality, and he financed from the football club, hurt his dignity by saying here that we owed the state 10 billion. But he forgot to say that six billion was interest on their debts and billions for Agrobank and Development Bank. He forgot to say no. By doing so, he violated another dignity. Next, he talked about FAP as a public enterprise. I really don't know how those pills get mixed up, but it's obvious that he hurt dignity by trying to convince us that FAP is a public company, and FAP is, as far as I know, a stock company. So... Nenad Milic: Theme! I don't know why they're winning, Mr. Chairman. Nenad Milic: Stop him! ) Another violation of the MPs of the people, the obstruction of my freedom of speech, and I want you to apply the provisions of the article. In 108, 109, and to fellow persistently earners, you give some notice in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15752	Thank you. For the most part of what you have said, and for the specific presentation of the Messenger of the people, I agree with you. I think you've been witnesses, too, and you can confirm that I've tried several times to point out to an esteemed colleague to talk about what's the agenda point. I don't think I've broken a specific article. 106th and 107th. I ask you, do you want the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Krsto Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15753	Dear Chairman, I believe that several members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated here, however, I will advertise the violation of Rule 108's Rules of Procedure -- on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. Again, you, Mr. Milicevic, have recently been in our neighborhoods and are familiar with the situation. I saw you at the campaign. The FAP was not shut down, as one of the previous speakers said, unfortunately it was not shut down. He would like the FAP shut down so that his party has more material to attack this government. FAP currently produces 50 trucks thanks to Serbia's military. The FAP is located in Priboj, and in this Priboj, 63% of the vote was won in the presidential elections by Aleksandar Vucic. His party, I don't know, I don't have the information they won, it was so important. What I'm trying to say is, when we compare it, and we say again, FAP is a Priory. I wish that at a time when this gentleman led the Smederevska Palanka municipality, a friendly football match was organized between the FAP football club and Jasenica. "Jasenica" is not a football club, but a public institution. We've talked about this a lot. For what? I am interested in what it says on that ticket that would be sold – FK FAP – JU “Jasenica”. There's a difference between us and them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15754	Col. Janjusevic, you pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108, which says the session of the National Assembly is held by the old President of the National Assembly. I think you've also witnessed that on many occasions I've tried to warn the speaker to speak about what is the point of the agenda. In that same article, Article 2 states that the violation of order at the meeting of the National Assembly may give rise to measures of caution, word-retracting or distancing from the session. I did not consider it necessary and reluctant to do so during the session, but definitely in the next period of time we will have to use this position of Article 2 108. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word of Alexander Jerkov, the messenger of the people, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15755	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be very brief. Tell me, in accordance with Article 103, are you under the impression that a former colleague was talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15756	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15757	Will you give me an explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15758	Of course. Do you want him to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15759	You can't just ask me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15760	Do you think that fellow Milojic was talking about what is the topic of the agenda of the assembly session?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15761	I'm asking you about the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15762	I don't think I hurt Article 103. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? I'll figure it out. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15763	Yeah, well, it's that mentioning those diapers a little while ago was completely degutant, but it also makes sense that we heard that word from whoever we heard it from. So when a person is talking about billions here, and it's obvious that there's no idea what a billion is, as far as I can tell, it's someone who seems to have stayed on that level of understanding, so the level of diapers. When it comes to debt, how long do we have to explain here what it's worth in a given year, so that a man is reasonable and reasonable to remember? How many times do we have to do it again? Is she able to remember? Maybe this is too much of a question if we're talking about people who aren't able to have some concise discussion on any subject. Maybe I'm wrong to expect something like that. Maybe I expect too much to remember. But the elemental calculation says -- the story of that 10 billion, nonsense complete. Not understanding what a billion is, not only when it comes to debt of state and foreign currency, but when it comes to something that a man does in his own local self-government, which is entrusted with ageing, when he assigns her to billions, and he's not aware of it, you realize that that person is an absolute face who is not able to understand what he's talking about. When he talks about "Gosa" and talks about how it's good for the government to be interested, but he's interested in the results, let him go to "Gosa" and ask there. These workers and these people thanked the government for both interest and action, so they can also find out the details that are precisely at stake. Now, why is a man so embarrassed and making all this of himself? I see only one possible reason - he repents of his sins. Ostensive of the sins of which? For example, we remember in a period of a month or two before the elections how unfeelingly praised his party president, that it is the best possible presidential candidate to win everything. And what happens? Man doesn't run at all. Why? Because he shouldn't have. He knew his rating was zero. Why do we remember that? Thanks to that commercial someone has to pay for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15764	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15765	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in relation to the points of the agenda that are very important, I must admit that I am currently a man of mixed feelings. I hesitate right now between feelings of shame over what the previous speaker who spoke said, so we understand each other, the previous speaker who was on the speaker list, but I have to admit, and I think it's kind of funny. That's funny, because the charges we've heard come from him, the debt expert, the expert who could be found in Giniz's book of debt records he managed to make. He's accusing us today and saying that we've managed, what debts we've made. He who directly left debts of over three billion dinars in just one local self-government for one term. Three billion dinars. It's for Giniz's record book. For Giniz's record book. When it comes to the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is a programme loan for, as we heard, development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises. With this in mind, it is really unacceptable for me to listen to the accusations of the representative of the "yellow company" during today's debate, as well as yesterday's, and the one who spoke earlier, as well as the others who spoke, the accusations of how we are in charge. Yes, we're in charge of this, this is a debt, but under far more favourable conditions than the debts you've made. We heard this today, both from Mr. Martinovic and Mrs. Tomic, that you were in debt under the most unfavourable conditions with interest rates of 6, 7, and 8%, and this loan foresees an interest rate of 2%. Well, where's the healthy logic? Where's common sense to accuse us of that? Who's accusing us? Yellow Ken who left three billion dinars in debt, like I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15766	My colleague Markovic, I'm only asking about the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15767	I'm on the subject all the time. Or Balša Zaev Bozovic, perhaps? Is he accusing us today? The one who has been attacking the MUP on a continuous basis in the last few days is false and false. In their time, the MUP was completely criminalized. There has never been more crime in Serbia's history in the MUP than in their time. Do I need to remind you of the state of the M.O.P. back then? Arresting, persecuting, not functioning institutions, political murders, and killing the prime minister. This is all that remains as a consequence of your authority, that is, everything that happened in Serbia during your rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15768	Comrade Markovic, I ask you to return to what is the agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15769	I thank you for pointing that out to me. I want to talk about the points that are on the agenda. I want to talk about the positive effects this loan will produce. I want to talk about what this law will bring new, what good it will do. So, as we've heard, it's projected a debt of 182m and 600,000 euros. So the main payment is also planned, one time, by 2036, as well as the payment of interest twice a year. These are the things that are foreseen by this loan, and today we have heard several times in the debate that what we can actually say is that the continuation of fiscal consolidation, i.e. consolidation of public finances, is the public sector. That's what nobody tried to argue today. I just got out of what the subject of the agenda was just because everyone before me kept doing it, but very maliciously, very tendingly, with telling lies. What I want to point out, when it comes to selecting prosecutors and judges, is it necessary to repeat how you chose prosecutors and judges in your time? Is it necessary? We read it several times from here when the municipal committees of the DS "yellow company" at the municipal board meetings made decisions on the choice of prosecutors and judges in Serbia. We had an example of a swallow, we read a few examples here, how they graded and how they valued and what the criteria were to choose a prosecutor. They're giving us a hard time today. For all these reasons, I want us to drop all the charges we've heard as completely unfounded and to support today's draft laws. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15770	You have the right to a replica. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15771	Thank you, Chairman. So the speaker who spoke briefly said that I personally accused the MUP of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic of being a co-worker of Zvezdan Jovanovic. To be honest, he was absolutely right. I just don't understand when the DS ruled this country and allowed criminals from prison, let alone the murderers of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Zoran Djindjic to call police officers "angry dogs". The DS has never allowed it in this country and will never allow it. We have said several times that there is any honor in the government of the Republic of Serbia among the ministers who correspond to the Earth clan, and not to the citizens, and not to the MPs, the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior would indeed have gathered the courage, gone...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15772	Mr. Bozovic, you have a replica of Mr. Markovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15773	That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15774	Mr. Markovic didn't talk about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15775	... He went to Central Prison and asked in the face of Zvezdan Jovanovic whom he calls "the angry dogs". Who does a prime minister's killer in Serbia today call "rabid dogs"? Police of Serbia who honorably wears a Serbian uniform, which wears Serbia's coat of arms on their chests? I don't think such power is the rule of the people. It is the government of the Zemun clan and will not rule Serbia much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15776	Mr Bozovicu, please respect the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are representatives of the citizens of Serbia here, and you are right, the rule of the people, and the people define what power they will be. The people said what kind of power they wanted. (Vladimir Djukanovic: The breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djukanovic, before you do, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica. You'll get a replica, but the priority is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15777	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I'm advertising 106, 107, and especially a violation of dignity. Unlike some DS members, I have never seen Zvezdan Jovanovic and I consider myself injured, and I believe many colleagues. He was an officer during the ruling party of the former regime. Cruelly injured is dignity. Mr. President, you tried to stop it. The speaker was insistant. The next Prime Minister to celebrate with Special Operations units in The Tower, my fellow farmer. So, he certainly had something to do with a mentioned person named Zvezdan Jovanovic. I've never seen him in my life. He was never an officer during my party's power, and together with my colleagues, who agree with me, I vigorously refuse to have anyone bring us into contact with a man who was an officer during their rule and yet to say that he was regularly visited by the presidents of their party. I've never done that. Cruelly injured is dignity. I'm not asking for this vote, but in the future it's known that the person mentioned has nothing to do with us. The party of the former regime also has that in mind when they talk about it, and so do we, because we have the right to protect against such disgusting accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15778	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. As far as I'm aware of your presentation, you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15779	Mr. Chairman, I think you hurt a member of 109 because a shorttime speaker said that this was the government that corresponds to the Zemun clan, you warned him, and then he continued and said this was the government of the Zemun clan, and then you had to give him a warning. It's a gruesome accusation, from those where members of the clan came to the government's office, and there are a number of other ministers who were in that government, who talk about it. So it's not exactly clear to me who they were answering then, especially because then we had someone who was headed by the government, who they used to come to, without talking about the head of the parliamentary group, the former, who went there and hung out with people like that. Therefore, you had to warn him, not to mention, of course, Article 107, because this is how the public is deceived, certainly because it violates Parliament's dignity. You had to warn him when you warned him you had to give him a warning. I'd like to ask you to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15780	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. You're right, although I repeat, I'm reluctant to use warnings as chairman, as a form of sanctions. On the other hand, Mr. Djukanovic, it is impossible to deceive the public. It is impossible to do so through the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Replica. Mr. Milojić, here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15781	Thank you. Mr. Milicevic, a replica of the presentation of MP Markovic. You can vote here, as counterpart Bozovic said, and that the country is flat, but that's not so. You've been in charge of your country for six years, your government for 10 billion euros. The state of public enterprises, for which you are now in debt to our citizens of 182 billion euros, is so that Juri workers wear diapers, so that in Gosa, the worker hangs himself, so you shut down FAP after 63 years of existence. What is an indicator of the Serbian Progressive Party's government is that, even this time, you won the biggest victory right in prisons. Look who's who and how it votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15782	Thank you. Right to the replica of Aleksandar Markovic, due to direct address.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15783	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to take the opportunity, given that there is a minister of justice, to point out one case of the previous speaker and appeal to investigate the case. So he says – yellow Ken and yellow Shule damaged the budget for 13.695,000 dinars. Well, he says -- senior DS officials, Radoslav Milojičić Kena and Dragan Sutanovac, participated in the suspicious business of the purchase of the House of the Army in Smederjevska Palanca, where municipalities and states were directly damaged by over 13.5 million dinars. I'm asking you to investigate this case because it's an obvious example of corruption, but it's not the only example. There's still a lot of examples. But what we didn't hear earlier from another representative of the yellow company, which is how did he become best friends with Zaev from Macedonia? What we could see on Twitter these days, from them and from their representatives, are warm EU support in Macedonia. He says this -- don't give up Zaev, if Zaev doesn't become Prime Minister, Macedonia will slip into civil war, etc. I only have one question for him – did he listen to the Albanian anthem in the moments when Jafferi became president of the Macedonian Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15784	I'm setting a five-minute recess to discuss how we're going to work. From 15.00 to 16.05 hours, we hear about everything, just not the agenda. The speaker next Balsa Bozovic, has three minutes, so many left from his parliamentary group. Easy, Balsha. It's been a minute. (Goran Ciric: more than three minutes. Let's keep working. Someone's got to make decisions. (Goran Ciric: three minutes and 22 seconds. ) It shows exactly three minutes 22 seconds, no point more, no decimal less. If you want to use it, you don't have to. Full democratic right to take advantage of your time. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want to address the meeting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15785	Thank you. The presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens, the subject is the independence of judges, the independence of prosecutors, and I fear that Serbia has nothing to boast about, and this government, when it comes to the independence of judges and prosecutors, for the simple reason that many surveys have been done and many research has shown that every other judge, on his skin, felt the influence and pressure of the executive authority, which some others present on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we take into account that research is not defined by the criteria that are done in developed European countries, then we come to the conclusion that more than 70% of the judges on their skin have felt the pressure of the executive authority. The D.A.'s office, not to mention. We only have this most famous case that rocked Belgrade, here for a year and a few days, the Savala case, when the prosecution must not address because the police minister does not allow, apparently, the work of the prosecutor's office. That we have a sabotage of investigative actions, regarding the "Savamale" issue, and that the prosecution must not take over from the police an investigative procedure, although, of course, by law, it can, because the pressure of Nebojsa Stefanovic on the prosecution and the police is enormous. It's all about, of course, the functioning of the entire system. If we go one step further with the events that have taken place in the past few months, then we will also come to this famous pressure by the interior minister and the Internal Police Control, which is pressuring the prosecution in the case of Dalibor Karanovic and the threats that Zvezdan Jovanovic sent to Minister Stefanovic. What happened?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15786	Switch the card if it's wrong. If we can talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15787	It is about the agenda, President of the Assembly. The agenda is a submission to the Internal Control Sector by Zvezdan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15788	Just tell me the agenda point you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15789	The D.A.'s election.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15790	The D.A.'s election?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15791	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15792	And you're talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15793	I'm talking about the D.A., the district attorney at Backo Palanca, I'm talking about him directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15794	Do we choose him today?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15795	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15796	What's his name?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15797	I'm looking for an exception, and in front of this house, I'm completely free to bring out everything I think is on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15798	Which comes to mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15799	I really think you're completely interrupting me for no reason at all. Why are you afraid?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15800	I'm not afraid. I'm afraid this House is not going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15801	That means if you interrupt me, it's all true what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15802	Nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15803	Why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15804	How can you say something like that?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15805	Why are you interrupting me? Let me say that stupid thing. So it's not when I mention Zvezdan Jovanovic to shut down my system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15806	I'm not going to let you talk nonsense, because that's how you disrespect this house. You're telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15807	You demean the first, because Zvezdan Jovanovic manages the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15808	Break. [[After a break.]] You have eight seconds. Finish your discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15810	It's a shame we don't have a government, but we have a clan that fits the "earth clan".
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15811	I give you a warning about this insult by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I was right to say in my break. I'm sorry it didn't work out in a direct transmission. (DS emissaries earning: it went in direct transmission. Did it work? With pleasure, I'm glad it worked out, but the breaks aren't working. I'm sorry. Veroljub Arsic, please. Do you want to discuss it? Here's to the agenda. And I'll interrupt you, anything, if you start answering and replicating.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that all citizens are the same before the law and that they should not be brought up just like that by the flat-rate charges against certain people, especially when there are representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors and Minister of Justice. Those who take care of public debt, we'll do it later. I think that here the government of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal to elect public prosecutor's office, was completely fair to the State Council of Prosecutors and those candidates, as proposed by the State's Major Prosecutors, forwarded to the Assembly. Here some of the fellow MPs spoke of 42 points of the agenda. If we acted as they did in their time, there would be three points of the agenda - two international agreements and one item of the agenda would be the choice of public prosecutor's office. So, what the State's Major Prosecutors are proposing, the former regime has separated as one candidate in principle – take it or leave it. That's how prosecutors were elected in 2012. However, some MP could then stand up and challenge a particular candidate, and the Assembly particularly pleaded against him, but it was not possible for the Assembly to declare itself about all candidates proposed by the State's major prosecutors. You're talking about pressure and someone's talking about pressure on the public prosecutor's office, and what's going on before? When you apply for a prosecutor, you won't even meet me in front of the Parliament. That's what happened. We expect the same behavior from the State's Attorney General. According to the law, it sets out a list of candidates for public prosecutorial functions, based on some kind of competition, so there are certain conditions. There must be a plan and a programme of work of a particular prosecutor's office that you're applying for, to defend that plan and the work programme, etc. and on that basis brings some estimates, subjective or objective, I will not go into it, and therefore forwards my own rank to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As I said at the beginning of the presentation, the government of the Republic of Serbia fully respected both the State's major prosecutors and the National Assembly, because it delivered the names of all the candidates we received. Is that always the way it is? I agree that under the law of the State Major Prosecutors has the right to propose one candidate, the government has the right to take or leave by principle and the National Assembly has the right to take or leave the same. But if you have such a correct relationship with the government towards you, I expect it to be reciprocal, because you bring it, I can't say legality, far from that, but you doubt that there were some favored candidates and all those now elected will be under suspicion. Why are you letting yourself do this? Make your rank list, deliver it to the government, the government will deliver it to the Assembly, and we will, on the basis of the authority that we have by law and by the Constitution, elect a prosecutor. This is how you allow yourself some gossip, do you have any on-call candidates for prosecutors, so they applied to four prosecutions, so they gave the same program for all four prosecutions, and it can't be the same program for all four prosecutions, right? Everyone has a problem, each part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia has its own type of crime more pronounced than in another part of the territory. Well, you allow yourself to gossip that they weren't even on the defense of that plan and program. Why are you doing this? Why did you change the rules during the competition? Overruled? Well, we can do it here, better than anyone else in the world. So, all the state authorities, the prosecution is an independent state body, according to the Constitution, the law says, something that we here as MPs have given up, that the public prosecutor's office bearer is independent and independent of the executive and legislative authority. Where do you draw your powers from? From here, here are the holders of the sovereignty of the citizens and the powers you have to draw from here. We gave them to you and then respect us when these are the points of the agenda, not one candidate in principle take or leave, all candidates who materially meet the condition of being prosecutors. And then you don't question the choice of any candidate, and even if there's any doubt, it's not from you, it's from us, so we're gonna go to the polls, and we're gonna answer for what some prosecutor's chosen or not, and you're not answering. You still answer to us, because it also says in the Constitution that the Republic Public Prosecutor corresponds to the National Assembly for his work. The National Assembly will make a statement about candidates, I don't see anything controversial, but if one practice started as good before, then continue it so, don't change good practice and good rules and question your work, your expertise, your quality and your proposals, because then you allow some to talk about how prosecutors are under pressure from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No, they're not. They were when a single candidate was proposed by the government. I said that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal before the law, so they expect protection from the law, but they also expect to suffer consequences if they break the law. So these stories about the "earth clan" and these governments don't stand at all, there's no room. Everyone has the right to seek protection from the police, everyone has the right to expect that protection. (Balsa Bozovic: And the prime minister's killer? ) ) And he has his civil rights even if he is at the service of punishment. (Balsa Bozovic: And the policeman doesn't? And the cop has and his son has and the killer's son has. Everyone has the right to protect, a citizen against the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15813	Ambassador, get back on the subject, or I'll take your word for it as well as the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15814	All right, so everyone has the right to expect protection from that same prosecutor, whether he's basic, districtal, senior, appeals or republican, to put an end to that right now. When it comes to the Agreement on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and the various irregularities brought here by the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia, the first, incorrect figures that the government of Aleksandar Vukic has charged the Republic of Serbia with 10 billion euros. You know, according to the government's methodology, Mirko Cvetkovic's public debt is just what the state directly owes, only it is a public debt, but what the state owes on the basis of contracted public works, it is not a public debt, although it is not paid, what the state owes to agricultural producers is not a debt, although it is not paid, what public enterprises did not repay their loans, what Agrobanka did almost 700m euros in debt, and it is not a public debt, nor is it a development bank of Vojvodina 300m euros, nor is it a public debt, it was not a public debt for them. It was not a public debt either, since it was "Srbijas" and the constantly attacked director of Bajatovic, I am not his lawyer, he is an MP, he can defend himself here, but for the truth, they owed the most local self-government for the gas delivery and then "Srbigas" made losses. Gas is used for citizens' heat energy. Gas is charged, or heat from citizens. What is not paid to “Srbigas”? Then there were some other presidents of the municipalities. Why didn't they pay their commitments to "Serbiagas", but the Republic of Serbia had to take those obligations and now they're talking about how we owe the citizens? Another thing I'm interested in is, if the money was charged for the supply of heat, where was it spent, when we found municipalities that had their debts and their deficits? No one will answer that, but they know one mantra - the government of Alexander Vukic owes our children. Well, another fellow MP comes out, says -- the new 200m euros are real in debt, 184, and he knows very well, was in session of the Finance Committee, that it is a matter of restructuring the old debt made by the government that he supported, but it does not suit the mantra. You have to be very rude, knowing the truth, not telling it. And then they wonder that in the elections they can't transfer 6% or 7% or wonder that they can't run for president of the Republic of Serbia and represent themselves as a state-run party. (Goran Ciric: Is this the topic of the agenda? ) A very good topic of the agenda. When it comes to public enterprises and restructure companies from which we also had inherited debts, they did not compete in the results of the work of these public enterprises. They knew, there's a state, there's a budget, there's banks, of which there's going to be a loan, and that's not bigger than what the government of the Republic of Serbia is in debt today, but more than the interest rates that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in debt, and they're competing to buy a better car, and now they're talking about cars. They were competing to buy a better car. (Marian Risticevic: I drive Saric.) I don't know. I don't know about Sharic. I don't want to mention it. That's how money was spent. That's how the public debt came to be. So the Republic of Serbia is not increasing its public debt by this law. Not a single dollar, we're just paying other people's dues. Someone will say, "Well, how long?" As long as we have to. They still do not accept the fact that the Republic of Serbia has reduced its public debt by 2% of GDP by just three months. They know it very well, and they don't have to say it. Here, you don't have to compliment us, but let them at least tell the truth. The question arises why we raise a new loan when we have a surplus in the budget, so that we can raise salaries in the public sector and pensions. That's why. You want someone to accuse us of being a sin. But we will raise salaries and pensions with what the state has saved and earned, not with loans, as it was before to buy votes. Will that increase help the economy? Yes, he will. Because we're starting to have a business, and before the state owed itself to give citizens wages and pensions, it ended up in banks on extremely high interest rates that were up to 35% in the short term. It's 10 to 11% today. Banks are double-earning, in charge of the state, in charge of citizens. Who's gonna regret having such a good deal with the World Bank? Banks. They will no longer be able to count on a secure client named the Republic of Serbia, but will have to put themselves at risk, go out on the market and borrow with lower interest rates and citizens and businesses. That's how you run the country. Then don't be surprised that at the time of fiscal consolidation, Aleksandar Vukic gets 57% in the election. Don't be surprised. Because he's got a score. He's got a score. He's got his own, you've got yours. Have you learned anything from your mistakes? If you keep this up, I doubt it. Because you'll learn from your mistakes when you learn to lose in the election. When you learn to lose in the election, congratulate the winner, then you can win.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15815	Thank you, MP. Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15816	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ms. Minister with Associates, it's hard in about seven eight minutes how much time there is to talk about this number of points, so I'm going to have to limit my discussion to the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, and that through several sentences, perhaps, some of the illogicalities mentioned in the choice of prosecutors mentioned. According to the already mentioned representative poll, anonymously, the Society of Judges, 44% of the 1585 judges surveyed from the total number of some 2800 judges in Serbia, gave their answers to the conditions of pressure, and out of the number of judges 43, the answer was that the pressure was systemic. Furthermore, they added that the influence of politicians on judges is carried out indirectly through individual judges who are either members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the president of the courts. Now we're getting a bill that only needs to change two points, which is really important. I fully support an esteemed colleague, Martinovic, who was challenged yesterday by the right to be a proposer. Of course, the MP can be and should be a promoter of change, a team before the head of the most numerous parliamentary group, but in that matter, something is not clear to me. Two thousand thirteen years have been amended by Article 72 of the Law on Judges in Paragraph 1 where the term of office is said to be set for five years. Until that day, the mandate was the same four years, as is now proposed. And what doesn't make it clear to me now? So did we make a mistake or were we right then? Are we wrong today, are we right today? Why would I ask that? I'm asking because whoever was watching the list of speakers saw that next to my name was undetermined. I'm not a man of the legal profession and I need the authority to convince me that what he's proposing is something good that I'm going to vote for. To the soul, about an hour ago, the minister snuck away like that somewhere that it might have been her predecessor, Mr. Selakovic, but no one said clearly, and I ask you that for us who don't understand, you say what's right now. Like this, I've been consulting with professors of law school of different universities in Serbia who have given me some other information. They gave me the information we've already heard, that this is why it's going to extend some of the presidents of the courts' mandates, to get some of them a second term, to stay in the position they are in. Whether or not Article 149 is violated in this way. A constitution that says the judge is independent and subject to only the Constitution and the law. He doesn't break visiblely, but what do we have? We have a situation where the presidents of the courts represent the VSS. How does this advice form? The minister of justice was elected by the government, a representative of the government, a representative of the assembly board also elected by the government, the President of the Cassation Court, also elected by authorities and eight candidates designated by the assembly majority. Can someone explain to me that these 11 VSS members who will thus be chosen primarily from the ruling majority, which is not a disputed right, have shown them that they have received more and more, do they feel a certain sense of gratitude for their choice, so that is something that will cause many judicial proceedings to not be resolved today, many of the affairs are not resolved and many questions and lies and the abundance of honest and honest people working in that call are possible? I absolutely support once again that the president of the parliamentary group of the most numerous parties has launched such a request. Here, I ask him, since he is able to change the VSS Act, or the choice of candidates, to make it a little different for us who are members of the opposition, who we really don't want to participate in these disputes and bickerings and in the agenda of what really has nothing to do with the agenda, and we want to be conditionally constructive, make it easier to make it easier for me to explain that there is a difference between the length of the term of the President of the Casation Court's term with the Presidents of the Court that I don't completely drink. That solution and that explanation can't satisfy me at all. It seems to me that before it was a desire for a thin thread, which may have left a higher degree of independence for the judiciary, which was reflected in the fact that the mandate was not the same as the mandate of the MPs. This way for four years there's one majority, we can change, we'll extend four more years, if God forbid we're not in power, we'll have our extended arm. These are my free perceptions, because nobody gave me a clear explanation of whether it wasn't right then or not right now, and I wanted to hear that explanation. So we're going to have four years left, and we're going to have the opportunity to regulate some of the conditions that are happening in a soft, soft, or less soft way. Just a few more sentences on the D.A.'s election. I just heard something that defeats me like a man. I don't know, Madam Minister, how do you think that as a person who doesn't know these people who should be elected for these high and responsible functions of our society, how can I vote for them if I don't have their full biography? You'll tell me it's on the site. Maybe people are ignorant enough or not taught enough to deal with websites. I think it's a duty to deliver it to us. But more than that, there was one fact that hurt me when you told us, as well as one colleague from the SNS, and by her understanding of things, I remain convinced that even the person in the legal profession who gave a terrible message to the students, where she said to the letter that the average of study and the length of study is not important. So what's important to us? To study for 15 years with an average of six-and-a-half? To be responsible for these people? Is that what we're trying to do? Is that what this country can run? I've always liked to say, and to point out that I was a generation student, that I was first and best finished. I guess that's good, not as my colleague says - it doesn't matter, it's an important experience. I could never fix my tooth if theoretically I didn't know what to do. Let's not mix pots and that something that is certainly not good we are trying to represent is good, because her defense seemed to me, a recently respected colleague Martinovic quoted the great Njegos, so to fill in the quote, it seemed to me - Janko defends Vladislav dead, defending him when he doesn't defend him. I'm defending that something is good, and that's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15817	Thank you. You've wasted your time with the Dverry Parliament Group. The word is Alexander Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15818	Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak of two laws concerning the duties of the Republic of Serbia. We have two laws, one that need to support our contracts with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or the European Investment Bank. The effects of these laws can be extremely favourable to us, given that we refinance one of the costs of a relatively high debt that we had in the past for one expense that we cut lower. It's hard to make a big remark if you fall with some average debt that, say, was four or five percent below two percent. That's for that 180 million about five million savings every year. It's pretty hard to attack if it's used to refinance. It's one truth and a very important truth. Also, if the loan has a longer maturity and you move the funding manual, let's say, from about 10 to 20 years old, you're running out of annual payments. It's the same thing that's true. What we get is that we have less interest costs with less interest and we have less annual payments on behalf of interest. That's the stuff to say hello to. On the other hand, there are challenges that arise. You get a five-million-dollar release based on a single loan, the question is how can these funds be used to further reduce expenditure in the budget and in fact how can you push the economy to have higher growth rates? To claim that we have a 3% high growth rate, they are higher than in times of crisis, but all Balkan economies have higher growth rates. Albania, Bulgaria, Romania is growing by 3.5% or 4%. Right now, it's a good conukture in the world economy. This is a sign that we do not really need to be overly happy because now is a good situation, but that we need to do further structural reforms and find ways for our private sector to grow. That's one big job coming up. Also, the money we got from the IBRD is because we made a commitment to some things in three areas. There's still a lot of work to be done and not naive work. Whoever was once in the EPS knows what unions are like, that the union in the EPS is a very screwed-up thing and that they've thrown out many ministers. We EPS are not yet the principles of the state. Maybe it's a little early to look forward to it. There's a huge job coming, a huge one. Also, there is another question that we need to pay attention to. This is the time of the lowest interest rates we'll have in years to come. America has begun to raise interest rates, interest on debt in dollars will grow. Europe and the European Central Bank will not pour into the market cheap money and buy bonds unlimitedly. This means that the cost of financing in the euro will rise. The key question is why is it no longer working on re-financing, that is, why in this good period of re-financing does not make the most of the effort to re-pack most of our debts, reduce the cost of interest and finally give the economy the opportunity to grow? Now it's easy to grow, but there's going to be years that won't be convulsory and so good, which can happen already for most of you, and then we get into a situation that has to take refinance loans three or four percent, and not like now for something below two. It's something that's going to change. Sometimes it's a good situation, sometimes it's bad, but if we're smart, we'll use good time. That's one challenge to follow. When it comes to this second loan, I deeply support the fact that money is being invested in our courts. The situation of the courts is pathetic in every way. Investment in buildings and judicial information systems is important. However, I think there are some other things that are very important to talk about, which is that if we could already get a tranche of about 180 million from the European Investment Bank to arrange the courts' buildings, to introduce information systems and that the judiciary works more efficiently, I think we could think a little bit about getting support to do a basic reform of the rules in Serbia. Not in the sense that we are changing some key commercial system laws, we have the dynamics that the EU gives us, and that is the way that is clear, but to do a clear study where we have a lot of inconsistencies of legal, sublegal acts, misunderstandings, because it would be the greatest support you could give to the judiciary, that the judiciary has fewer cases because we would have a more coherent, clearer and better legal system. It's a huge job, and for the sake of our economy and our legal system, that job needs to be done. It's expensive work, so we don't lie. It's not easy to motivate people who work in our law-making system, and it's not easy to find people who can give us support, because it costs. That's one fucked-up job. There is a key question – if we could already invest in the reconstruction of the courthouse building, in the information systems, could we have invested part of the funds for these purposes? I think it would be a very smart investment and it could be very cleverly exploited. Finally, not to be so clear and not to be unexpected to get support from the opposition for certain things, I mean, you'll be criticized by others for the judiciary, but, behold, there are some nice things on our side to say, all of this will be very little worth if you don't do the restructuring of the EPS, if you don't do the restructuring of the Railways and if you don't end up doing business in the public sector. Neither the EBRD nor the EIB nor other institutions that finance reforms in Serbia can teach us to choose the best people in the best places, to have good systematicisation, good impact measures systems and to keep every tender in the best order possible. Only we in Serbia can do that, and we have a lot of work to do here. But things like cheap credit refinance and investment in the judiciary I can't criticize on this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15819	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15820	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, the Honorable State Secretary, fellow MPs, today, due to limited time, I was not able to dedicate a kind of observation to the authentic interpretation of Article 82(2) of the Law on State Prime Minister and Katastre in my discussion. I would ask that special attention be paid to this, given the fact that in practice we can have more serious problems if such authentic interpretations in general were accepted. Of course, it doesn't mean it's illegal in any way. It absolutely has a foothold in the positive regulations, but the question is why it's a limiting character. What exactly is this about? Every citizen of Serbia sees the dispute in the catastra as some sort of means of security, security of their property interests or other material interests. They will ask the Catastre to make a note of the case because it will thus protect its assets at its disposal, because during the course of the dispute, the property cannot be available, or while the litigation is under way. But here it says that if litigation is initiated by third parties, what does third parties mean? These are those persons who are not legal predecessors or those who were not previously enrolled in the cataster as owners. Those are the third faces. And those third parties, said in this authentic interpretation, can be so legitimate and that the note of the dispute can only be made in three cases – the first, when a case is filed based on maintenance, the second, when the legal actions of the debtors and the third, when the person is directed to initiate litigation proceedings. The third involves terminating the out-of-party procedure to resolve a disputed issue in the case. My colleague and I, figuratively speaking, have an inheritance procedure, we come to a disputed situation, we can't agree that we're equal heirs, we dispute each other's inheritance stakes, the court directs us from a non-partisan case to a lawsuit to remove this disputed fact, to clarify the court's ruling. Now here we come to one fundamental question. Why these three situations? Why can't a note of the dispute be made in other lawsuits? Why can't a note of the dispute be made if I file a claim because I have a purchase contract and on the basis of a sales contract, I want property rights to be established? On Duke Step Street, we have a resale of apartments in a million ways. First it was sold to Neji Jovanovic, then sold to the Soul, so I don't know which third, fourth and fifth etc. I have a legal interest in making a note of the dispute based on my lawsuit, so that I can later try to pass a verdict that determines the right of property in my favor. Why can't I record that? Why wouldn't I be able to file such a request for a catastra to sign a slow record? Is that how my property rights remain unprotected? Of course he's staying. We have a million other situations, life situations, practical situations that simply impose the need for the observation of the dispute to be carried out precisely for the protection of property rights. What if I had a house in my possession, I paid a purchase price, I even paid a tax, I have a written contract, but I didn't sign up for a cadastre? That's a lot of situations. As such a party in the process, the prosecutor, I have an active ID, I have an interest in seeking a note of the dispute. I'm not sure this authentic interpretation allows us to limit it to only three situations, to only three cases. I have an extremely high respect for what the reviewer of authentic interpretation has said because that way the promoter protected all those involved in this situation. It's just my question, caution, what are we going to do with the rest of the situation? What to do with those who in this situation somehow remain without the possibility of adequate protection through the observation of the dispute in front of the stationary cadasar. And the additional motivation why I point out this caution is because there's already a draft law on state diameter and cataster, where the observation of the dispute is quite different, so we're going to have one so-called. the transitional situation or the transitional norm until the adoption of a new law on national diameter and cataster, when we will define the note of the dispute as determined by the draft. I hope that these well-intentioned suggestions of mine and everything I've pointed out should only have one way of thinking, which is to try to fix something that might challenge the full effect in practical application, which is the citizens' interest in the availability of the basic principle of legal certainty. In the end, I will return to something that has emerged today as controversial when it comes to the choice of prosecutors, when it comes to the choice of war crimes prosecutors, when it comes to the procedure itself. It seems to me that a lot of laicism stems from commentary when it comes to personal solutions and the way these personal solutions are achieved, i.e. how personal issues are solved. Laicism, because those who do not understand or do not know the procedure make comments coming out of the framework of cultural, professional, professional and above all, and above all moral. Why am I saying this? I've been called to apologize on behalf of those who don't want to apologize. Against those who will not apologize to the citizens for the fact that the vulgar comments here have been made about individuals who are candidates for the holders of judicial functions, I have no objection, but as a man who adheres to the personal ethical code, I will always be willing to say that such comments should not come out of this home, that persons by name and last name should in no way be lied to and that if anything comes up, it must be primarily factually justified and that everyone must be responsible for the spoken word. That is what I am repeating, and I believe that the citizens of Serbia should see us as MPs representing them just as they do, as people who care about the spoken word. I'll always try to take care of it honestly. That's why I can't accept that today's comment has been made that individual candidates are unprofessional, because we are entering a serious problem. He is reportedly an unprofessional candidate for the president of the First Basic Court or a candidate for the Supreme Court in Piroth. You know what, if we're going to comment on it, we come to a paradox, then we deny the full work of the High Court Council. The High Council of the Judiciary has made unanimous decisions. These unanimous decisions stem from a procedure that implies that someone's expertise is being examined, that someone's quality of work is being examined, whether or not it satisfies, whether this quality of work has dissipated what the candidate is qualified to be the President of the Court. I trust the High Judicial Council. And while the High Council of the Judiciary is applying rules that it is obliged to apply, while honestly and responsibly, and above all, dedicated and legally, it does its job, which is why, the MPs, we would be in a dilemma whether someone is professional or unprofessional, especially if it is brought out by someone who is not in the profession? I have not heard the reasons why the candidate for the First Basic Court in Belgrade is unprofessional. And the reasons can only give me the High Court's advice. As the same reasons can only be given to me by the State's Chief Prosecutors when it comes to any of the candidates who are applying for a public prosecutor's office, whether it's a deputy public prosecutor or a public prosecutor. That's why I think it's finally time to get rid of ourselves -- one, prejudice, two, vanity and three, anything that means respect for the law and respect for the procedure. If anyone wants to impute me to court, yes, I object to justice, law and justice. And I'll always make out and I'll never get rid of it. I belong to a parliamentary group that cherishes such principles and will always cherish them. I am proud of both my parliamentary group and those principles. We have a situation where today on this side we have heard so much controversy about the D.A.'s institution for war crimes, that it's something terrible. From denying the institution itself to denying their work, denying anything. A candidate who currently serves as deputy war crimes prosecutor has been performing the post very successfully for a long time. The other candidate also meets all conditions. And that's what the State's Chief Prosecutors assessed. Is that what you need to suspect? Absolutely not. We may even find ourselves in a bit of an awkward situation to decide on something that still needs the profession to decide, because only the profession knows who has more weight in the profession and who has less weight in the profession, as lawyers know who has greater legal dignity, authority and credibility from the point of view of the profession and who has less. But we can't argue with the fact, let's say, that the acting deputy war crimes prosecutor has done an extraordinary job lately - extending the indictment when it comes to the perpetrators of a undoubtedly serious counter-law with a high degree of social danger, which is the case in the Strpci, etc., etc. Is that supposed to be denied? Is that supposed to be disavoid? Not at all. We in the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group stand at the view that citizens should recognise all that quality in work. And nothing more than that. What I want to point out, and here I am going to bring this part of the discussion to an end, is that in the future we will have the opportunity to discuss the holders of judicial functions, because both the Constitution and the law gave us this right, because, as counterpart Arsic said, we have this so-called. The obligation to pass laws under which judicial authorities, institutions and all those acting in judicial bodies and institutions will do as effectively as possible, to make their work as optimal and to be in favour of the citizens and for the benefit of the Serbian state. Because the state of Serbia, without the legal certainty it provides for citizens, and this government is no doubt doing so, cannot move forward. The war crimes prosecutor's office has done a lot to finally open the door to the international community, in order to co-operate on the processing of war crimes crimes crimes crimes crimes, so as to collect data in the best possible way, by missing data. Reminders for the sake of this, we've taken a lot of action from the UN tribunal when the war crimes prosecutor's office prosecuted many perpetrators of serious crimes and now we're moving on. It is our duty to assist this prosecution, to assist other institutions, and the State Council of Prosecutors and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, to work as best and as efficiently as possible through the legislation we can bring here. So I ask you, as well as all the MPs here, all of us present, to give full trust to those who do not deserve this trust, but prove by their work, and while they prove by their work, there is no reason to doubt this trust in any way, which is both the one and the other institution, and the State Greater Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary. I also thank the Ministry of Justice, especially the respected Minister Nelli Kuburovic, who really put out in the opening part what few of the MPs accepted in the way it was exposed, has already been politicised, there has been a lot of political marketing or party marketing, rather than a debate in essence. I thank you and once again point out that the Socialist Party of Serbia Parliamentary Group will unreservedly support the proposals we are discussing today, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, and, hopefully, the best candidates for the holders of judicial functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15821	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The following is the word of the People's Parliament of LJupka Mihajlovska... He's not here. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll just take a moment. Since the debate on all the points of the agenda has been joined, I must say that I am behind what my fellow Serbian Progressive Party MPs said, I mean Biljana Pantic Pilja and Professor Marko Atlagic about their reserves, i.e. the challenge of candidates for the senior court in Piroth, Marin Zivkovic and the President of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, Natalija Bobot. It's their right. They have a proper argument for that. I, as president of the Parliamentary Group, also question their choice, because I believe there are better candidates at this point than they are. Of course, it is not a personal war against anyone, but I cannot support a colleague of Jovanovic in his view that the National Assembly should only vote in general on all proposed candidates without having the right to question the choice of individual candidates. Then the National Assembly would be put into a situation—take it or leave it. So, take the whole package you've been offered, or don't choose anyone. We have the right to challenge the selection of individual candidates. Doesn't mean the High Council of the Judiciary is always right. They have their own criteria, their means of reasoning, but the final word is given by the National Assembly, and I am joining my colleague Pantic Pilji and my colleague Atlagic and I, also as a National MP and as president of the Parliamentary Group, contesting the candidacy, i.e. I challenge the election of the President of the Higher Court in Piroth Marine Zivkovic and Natasha Bobot's candidacy for the President of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. No one should be angry about this, but as MPs, we have the right to do so. The Rules of Procedure give us this right, and in the Day of Vote, we will vote separately on this motion for a decision, on the election of the President of several courts in the Republic of Serbia, because of these disputes which I am joining.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15823	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word has a folk letter from LJupka Mihajlovska. You're giving up? Thank you. Since the Devere parliamentary group has no more time, Zoran Radojicic can't speak, and he's not even in the O.R. National MP Jasmina Nikolic. You're giving up? Thank you. A national emissary from Tatjana Macura? She's not present. MP Vladimir Orilić? Thank you. National MP Sasa Radulovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15824	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we have a 42-story agenda before us. Among them is the Law on Judges, Amendments to the Law on Judges, and then, the appointment and resolution of several prosecutors, the establishment of 33 prosecutors. There are two proposals for a war crimes prosecutor, then for four senior public prosecutors, 25 primary and 17 deputy public prosecutors. A total of 60 different prosecutors. Then, the appointment of judges for the first time, three judges and one appointment for the High Council of Justice. We practically have about 20 seconds for these 60 prosecutors for each prosecutor to devote time to him, about 20 seconds and for these laws and for this authentic interpretation, notes of the dispute in the catastro. I think it's quite clear to the citizens that this is an impossible job, that you can't explain anything at this time. So, really, this kind of unification of the debate doesn't allow us to discuss these candidates at all. When we talk about motions for prosecutorial functions, the Assembly would have to decide. I disagree, of course, with the previous speaker that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors is proposing candidates. They take care of everything, so what do we serve? Because if they take care of everything, then the law should be so that they make decisions. Since the law is such that the Assembly makes decisions, then MPs would have to have enough information about these prosecutors to determine whether to support or not. For the public, this is what a proposal for a public prosecutor looks like. So that's this paragraph of text right here, which is why we should decide whether to support this proposal or not. To read briefly, not to mention the name and data of this prosecutor since they're all about the same. But we have a name and a last name, proposed for that and that court, was born that year, where the Faculty of Law had already, and that year, passed a judicial exam, and then the first working relationship was based in that place, then elected to that place, then to the third, fourth, and when we go through all of that, no statement about what this candidate's work plan is, which is the results of his or her work so far. So no information about why one such candidate should be elected to that function. On the basis of this, no MP can certainly make a quality decision on whether to support a candidate or not. Of course, it's not enough nor can it be enough to say – we trust the High Council of the Judiciary, because if we do so, then we need to change the law and do so so that the High Council of the Judiciary directly appoints judges and the State's Chief Prosecutors and that it ends or that the Government does so directly. So this puts us in an impossible position to decide something based on the data that we got here. The MP group "Enough Was" tried to get additional information, work plans, see who the other candidates were, to carry out a comparison. But we didn't get that information, they weren't given to us. Secondly, we don't have a chance on board to talk to the candidates, to ask them questions, that in some way we can make a quality decision. This way, based on this text, you will admit yourself, no responsible quality decision can be made that is of interest to the citizens of Serbia. We would have to have work plans, we would have to have experience, or the results of work so far, in order to be able to carry out some evaluations. What we're left with is that we're "breathing" in the media, and then we're getting out of the media some affairs that are staged, which we don't even know whether or not they're true, whether the prosecutors are paid, because the newspapers are paid to round up a good prosecutor, as there are cases, or whether it's true things. There are a lot of candidates here on the list, a lot of newspaper headlines that talk about it. Here, for example, is one from "Blica", which speaks of a candidate for the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev, where he is spoken of as a member of an organisational criminal group and that the special prosecutor's office, i.e. the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, has conducted proceedings against him in cases of extortion of money. I don't know if this is true. I call on the minister to check these allegations, because these are very important things. First, or this is muddy and incorrect. I don't want to muddle anyone, not even this candidate. On the other hand, maybe it's true. These are official files. I think it's something the minister has to check. Is it true that against the candidates for the Supreme Court in Panchev, were these proceedings conducted? Is he identified as a member of an organized crime group who extorted money? I won't go any further. There's a lot of examples like this. This kind of thing would have to be resolved, and this is something that should be in the proposal to appoint someone and on the other hand that we have a chance on the board to ask the candidates questions, so that they know that the one we appoint really deserves to be in that place. We have a major involvement by the executive in the prosecution's work, obvious examples of non-processing, or law enforcement. The Savala case, 24 controversial privatisations, then robbed the whole of Serbia, and turns out no one is to blame. A helicopter affair, then killing journalists who are unsolved, then a guard, a lot of examples. This tells us that the personnel elected in the D.A. have no quality, no spine or both. It can't be that none of this is being processed and that we have and that the best candidates are being proposed. When I look at this list of candidates, the only thing we have left to evaluate is in some cases where we are given average grades at the university, because neither the judges, for whom these data were provided, nor the prosecutors, for which no such data was given, and including the average that they achieved at the university, we can't use any other data to compare. I'm not saying college grades are the only main criterion, but it's the only one I can see here that's measurable, and that's with the judge. We also have proposals for seven court presidents, and these are the average scores: 7.32; 6.55; 7.35; 6.32; 7.48; 8.3 and 7.14. This is seven candidates for the President of the Court. These were their averages in basic studies at the Faculty of Law which in Nis, which in Belgrade and some other places. Then, for the judges elected for the first time, we have three candidates. One candidate with an average of 9.77, the other with 7.0 and a third with 7.32. This is the only thing I can use for comparison. You'll agree that this isn't enough to assess any candidate. So I think it's more than obvious that based on this data, we can't bring a court. I'm going to touch the Justice Act now, so three changes are proposed, practically. One is to strengthen the role of the president of the court and against the recommendations of the profession, I will be guided here by the recommendations of the profession. The professional associations of judges who speak of the need for relativisation of the role of the President of the Court, not strengthening. The law suggests that instead of the president of the court being elected for five years in one term, she has allowed two times four years and, besides, an additional thing to limit this restriction when conditions for retirement are acquired that the President of the Court does not retire, but that he can remain President of the Court until the end of the term of office. Now, no other judge can do that. So the presidents of the court would be privileged. We also know that the President of the Court is in contact with the executive authority. Therefore, this emergency procedure under which the law is passed and is said to be the purpose, that is, to compromise any other procedure, the work of the courts, which is an amazing explanation. My question for the minister is - how many courts are in which the presidents of the courts are retired, since the only reason I can see for this urgent procedure and for the adoption of these regulations is that some of the judges in that position today might be able to maintain that position? So, I'm undermining, the waist...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15825	Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15826	The profession speaks of the need for relativisation of the role of the President of the Court, not strengthening. We'll vote against this. As far as the prosecutors are concerned, we can't plead here despite our best wishes. I'm asking the minister to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15827	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15828	Thank you. To tell you the truth, I don't know where to start, I've heard a lot of things here today, but I find this debate about war crimes prosecutors particularly interesting. I will certainly vote for a particular person I think should really be in that place, for the simple reason that she will work, that person, all the opposite of what Vukcevic did, and that is already a big plus. And by the very fact that these former prosecutors, or those who worked in that prosecution, were in fact the most common exposition of the UN tribunal here and anyone who would at least move it a little better deserves a chance, only that those who went into retirement and who still have tentacles there in that prosecution had nothing left. Whoever removes such a team – Vukcevic and Vekarić, I take off his hat and has great support on my part. Why am I saying that? We could see anything at these war crimes trials. We could even see that the legal counsel was a woman who was a sociologist. Why? Because she was so influential and powerful in our society and, of course, she had connections, since she was the president of a non-governmental organization that was doing what was doing here, she was only muddying the Serbian people. That person could have been even a legal representative without any problem, which is a scandal, and that's what we've been experiencing. So when someone talks about the independence of courts and prosecutors, there's only enough for you to see that one person could literally order a judge, even if he's looking for a judge's shift because he thinks they're not judging properly. It's about Natasha Kandic, of course. We're talking about a party court and a party prosecutor's office. This is where the colleagues mentioned that famous case from Vlasotinc. It's been talked about more than once. But I simply have to read some allegations, as it is the assessment of the chairman of the municipal board of one party, the former ruling party and the president of the municipality, which gives an analysis which the judge is like, or who is fit to be a judge in that court. Watch out for the circus. He says this - the president of the court, graded one of the candidates, the president of the court since 2000 broke between the DSS and the DSS, overcame the current interest, and is considered a DSS, generally fair, he says, but uncommunicated and unprepared, but deserves a chance. It's an evaluation, imagine, to be a judge. Well, he says this about someone else -- a sympathiser, his wife, a DS member, honest, valuable, on the part of unsumptioned, ten years back, providing all legal assistance to DS, probably the best in court, ambitious, deserves to advance, interested in an appeal judge in Nis, is undeniable. You can imagine a grade like this. Then he says this -- the president of the court by 2000, the impertinent enemy of the DS because of his shift, unprincipled, corrupt, coerced and today in New Serbia ruled in 1996 as president of a larger election theft in Vlasotinc, ahead of retirement, undeniably negative. It is assessed by the chairman of the municipal board of one party. Well, she says like this -- peaceful, fair, withdrawn, fair, apolitical, her only fault is her former JUL president, now a politician, the director of Elektrodicion in Vlasotanc, indisputable judicial qualities. This one was particularly interesting to me, he says – honest, valuable, on the part of the observed unsuspecting, professional, experienced, long-standing DS sympathiser, rejected all criminal charges against the officials of the municipal board of DS Vlasotince, his son is a member, deserves his attention and a chance to advance, interested in the deputy prosecutor or senior prosecutor. Now, that's how judges and prosecutors used to pick each other, by being judged by the president of the municipal board then by the ruling party in a place or possibly by the president of the municipality, and by choosing you to be a judge in court. Today, such ones tell us about the party judiciary, that is, the party justice, those who, in God’s justice, deleted the sixth and something of the judge’s rubber in the reform of the judiciary. All these people got their disputes, we had to get them back, and the immeasurable damage to this country was produced because you had to pay people money for what they lost, or what they couldn't do. The assessment was like that, exactly according to this criterion – who was party-like. Now that we're talking about this party justice, you know, we've been constantly imputed here that the current judiciary is a party because, imagine, the criminal court has made a decision to rule in favor of Neboj Stefanovic, related to the case of "NIN". Then, when the Court of Appeal brought that down, then it's no longer a party judiciary, it's a good judiciary. Now watch that hypocrite. Otherwise, in their time it could never have happened, that the court would have ruled against them, there was no chance. So the judges were absolutely so, as they would say, damaged that they had to get judgments from certain cabinets and read it. Your witness, among other things, is the judge who tried the case of Mladic's flocks. The man resigned, left the case, refused to bring a written verdict against those people, a dictated verdict. You see, the key difference between us and them is exactly that, and that's where you're going to have to do a lot of things from the Justice Department. The key difference is that we don't want to interfere in the work of the judiciary, and it rarely goes to our harm as strangers, but I'm sorry, it goes to the benefit of the state. You at the Justice Department will have to deal with the fact that the people here finally realize that the judiciary is definitely independent, because exactly what we've been left with from this self-government socialism, or from a communist period, and later on from the period of those who ruled us until 2012, that the people's thinking that only judges are chosen by a party key and that anyone from the politicians can order judges. We're glad that there are cases where a verdict is happening and against the party's officials, and so it should be, if they've broken the law, they should be convicted against them. But no one has the right to interfere with the work of judges and prosecutors. What's very interesting to me, I see here some candidates, right to tell you, alive for them I wouldn't vote. There are some that are, for example. Arrested 500 and a few people as prosecutors and they were all released and they caused such immeasurable damage to this country from one 110 million dinars, I think. I don't want to talk about the name and last name of the person, but it's terrible that that person had to run again. I, for example, won't vote for that person alive, let me tell you right now. I agree here with my colleague Martinovic that we definitely have MPs right, even individually, in the end, to evaluate the individual candidates who came to us here and their biographies. I'm just asking you to really do more in the judiciary than you've done so far, and you've done a lot. You are, for example, Mr Selakovic above all, but I see that you have continued his path, and I am very pleased that you have restored an absolute network of courts and that for double. Someone had a brilliant idea in this society to completely destroy the network of courts, to have only 30 and some courts in the state. Today it seems to me that we have returned it and many municipalities that have lost their courts for no reason have received new ones. I'm glad you're building new courts, especially for the criminal judges, very important, they'll all be in one place and it's a very big success. What I have to congratulate you in some way, although I wasn't a supporter of it, it's about the prosecution investigations, but we still have it in the amanet of some previous furniture, where someone went into the strawberry with their throats, because they got money from a large Western state that asked for it, and it insisted exclusively that this prosecution investigation be conducted. It's pretty much on our noses. You've got the hot potatoes and how much you've done to make it work properly. I claim that our prosecutors are still not fully qualified for adequate work related to the prosecution's investigation, but since it was left behind and what a mess it was with bringing such a ZKP on its nose like that, this is still really great. I must commend you for the fact that you give young people a chance. A lot of young lawyers have managed to find a place under the sun and I think that you are, and I have to say, we also have one very pointless way the Justice Academy has been built, the right to tell you that it worked then, I don't even know what it was for. I see that you have now very nicely depicted it that the Judicial Academy will be a place where you will really be educated in the right way since the holders of our judicial functions. Congratulations on that. I am glad that you are doing this thoroughly, and not as you once did, cleanly pass a law in order to justify yourself before these EU citizens or to get eventually some money from the funds, but to systematically approach certain laws and prepare the public and society above all, and certainly prepare those holders of judicial functions to comply with certain laws. With that in mind, of course I'll support all these solutions. As for the judges themselves, the prosecutors, I will individually decide anyway when I look at everyone's biography to the end. As far as the law is concerned, I will fully support and I believe that it will, of course, be done by the entire SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15829	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. There's still three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15830	Here, in three minutes, something that apparently after yesterday's debate occupied attention. I think it's important that Mr. Vujovic, the minister, is here with us, too, but I would like to see with him both colleagues and colleagues who contributed to this debate clarify some things, some questions that we couldn't get an answer to yesterday. So, when we talk about the Law confirming the loan agreement for a programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises. So, I would point out, since some have talked about it not being a loan, it's a reprogramming, so I'd like to ask -- why doesn't it write about reprogramming the 2011 loan? Speaking of which, it's not a loan, it's a way to pay back some old debts. What is much more important here, Mr. Minister, I think it is important that we MPs of the National Assembly, and primarily Serbian citizens get enough arguments and information on the basis of which we make this decision on borrowing 182m euros plus borrowing of about thirty. So a total of 200m euros at this session. It raises more questions, but the key issues, it's a public debt issue. You remember that I have proposed just respect for the law, because the Law on Public Debt speaks of the moment when we exceed 45% of the legal limit, the participation of public debt in GDP, in any adoption of the budget, we have to discuss this and that the government introduces us to the way in which this problem will be overcome. So that's one of the DS proposals. So in 2012 in July, public debt amounted to around 15 billion euros and there was a lot of talk here about rights or such or such data, false public debt data. So, 15 billion in July 2012, and I'm looking at the site and what's available to me, the Public Debt Administration website that you can also check and all the citizens of Serbia, on which it says - that on 31 December 2016 there were about 25 billion and 200 million, that on 31 March 2017, and that is the latest available data on the Public Debt Administration site, that amount was 24 billion and 900 million and some million. So based on accessible data, so the Public Debt Administration, it's about 25 billion, 15 billion in July of 2012 and now 10 billion more. So the question is that – on what basis do we decide, because this 200 million-dollar programme loan is intended, above all, to rationalise within the EPS?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15831	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15832	Let me remind you, just ten seconds, if you'll excuse me, I think it's important and I wouldn't take any more time, that it's very important to say that a year and a half ago we passed the law we were in charge of the EPS' needs of about 200 million euros. The question – how did we spend these funds, if the effects, the losses of the EPS after a year, a year and a half were reduced... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15833	I'd like to thank my colleague Kiric. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15834	Thank you. I didn't get answers to the questions I asked. They're repeating once again the key issues we have here in the election of judges, the election of prosecutors. We're picking up prosecutors for the 33rd D.A.'s office. We have 60 suggestions by name and last name. We have a brief explanation, where there's only biographical data, without any relevant data on which we could define ourselves and vote for any prosecutor or not, or for any judge. The only thing we can compare is the average grades at the university in basic studies given to judges, and for prosecutors, we don't even have that data. You will admit, on this basis, it is impossible to make a decision, so I am really interested, we have heard from several MPs of the ruling majority about how they will identify each prosecutor individually, based on which data. All we got was on this piece of paper for every prosecutor. It's a short paragraph. Based on this data, it's impossible to declare the quality of a prosecutor. Again, maybe he's a candidate, or candidates for war crimes prosecutors, maybe they're good, maybe they're not good, we don't know. The MPs have been given a brief explanation. No work plan, no analysis of work so far, quality choice cannot be made. It's possible to make a choice on the bell. When the bell rings, you vote, and that's possible. However, it is not in the interest of Serbian citizens. What is really a big problem and the minister has not responded to that either, the profession says, relevant judicial associations say that this amendment to the Law on Judges actually strengthens the role of the President of the Court rather than relativating it as the profession requires. The way I choose is controversial. There are suggestions, say, that the president of the court is elected by the judges and that it is the way of choice. This choice, that is, this method of choice that we make today through the Assembly with these brief explanations simply makes no sense. There was a lot of thought that prosecutors should be elected directly in the elections in each municipality, by majority election, so that citizens chose the same way as police chiefs, as well as the presidents of municipalities, mayors. It must be a direct choice. We think it's the only way to get to quality personnel where citizens decide. This way, on the basis of this shrewd argument, of a short paragraph, no MP can make a quality decision. Of course, there may be additional sources of information available to some MPs, but they are not available to all MPs. About the judges, too. All we have to do is watch their average score.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15835	Bring the end, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15836	So it takes relativisation of the role of the President of the Courts and finally prosecutors with spine and integrity. Based on this, those decisions are impossible to make. We won't vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15837	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15838	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I listened carefully to and wrote down the previous speaker as wise thoughts. First of all, I want to tell you that in the second round of presidential elections, Saša Rasulović and the gentleman from Užica Stamatović, respectively, were placed in the second round of presidential elections, but on April 1st. Mr. Stevanović had the best discussion today, I appreciate it. Everything he collected, this one spilled, the one who sued me, which entered the second round closely, among the invalid Stamatovics, under the password – Just soft. So I was sued by a man for words spoken for by a pay phone. That's how much he knows the law. It's not that he doesn't know the law and the constitution, it's that they don't even know the judges. We have strange MPs and we have, here's colleague Atlagic, more strange judges. We also heard a complaint about the biography. When we chose the Minister of Economy, it's a very, very sensitive place, we got a three-row biography. And colleague Atlagic says that it is based on some theory of his, you know what is now being discussed about Darwin's man has become, I don't know, but Mr. Atlagic's theory is next – man has become from a bankruptcy manager, but a rich man. On second thought, it's not like that. They're poor people, but money has nothing else. I agree with Mr. Stevanovic's discussion, but this one is covering it, ruining it. I agree. We created during the borrowing of the party of the former regime a source of debt repayment, says 15 point something billion, July 2012, I agree. But, Mr. Martinovic, were there two billion already deficits, because it was an election year, already ingested two billion? Is that 17.6? Have we returned nearly six billion interest in the last five years? Is that eight of those ten billion? Did the Development Bank and Agrobank burden us for almost a billion? Yes, it is. Is that supposed to come back from the budget? Yes, it is. Then how much is this really our debt? A billion, two. That's why we build hundreds of miles of highways, open jobs, and they're doing nothing. Let's see what's next. Do we have the privatisation revenue of 6.7 billion, as they had since 2001/2002? the year until 2012? Do we have the 6.7 billion? If we had them, we'd be in a bigger surplus. Did we create a state that could finance its own expenses? Yeah. Did we, last year, return 650 billion dinars of debt and interest? Is this year's interest, on their debts, 133 billion? Is it a shame to replace the debt with 8% interest on the debt with 2% interest? That's what Mr. Stevanović would explain best. I agree with him, there's nothing to add. It is more dangerous than their debts that they have not created any means to repay the debt, but rather, revenue from privatisation of 6.7 billion. Now they tell us -- you give investors 10 grand per job. If we had those 6.7 billion, we would open 670,000 jobs, and they add 6.7 billion and fire 400,000 people. Make them miserable. Now they're teaching us a lesson out there from Maldives, Briona, these white world islands, come here and talk about some of our debts. Four hundred thousand unfortunates with no dignity, no pay. How much is that in pay? Two billion a year, on average personal income. We don't have two billion. These people don't have two billion. Its goal was to deploy money towards themselves and the tycoons, not those ordinary people. Privatisation did it, now they teach us lessons. The reform of the judiciary served, to forgive viewers, as "torture shit when they hug" to forget what they stole, along with their tycoons, a reform of the judicial deformity was carried out. Further cousins, aunts, even one dead man were brought in. What was the feature here? A longtime sympathiser. That must be my judge. The constitution and laws serve to stop citizens' freedoms on a certain level, so we can't kill, steal. Okay, there are, some have had it that I can. They killed that Lulet, neither guilty nor debtor, for vengeance. But the Constitution also stops power, even court. The judiciary is dangerous. She can rule as executive and legislative. The judiciary is independent, the judiciary is independent, the prosecution is independent, and I'm not sure that this independence of the judiciary is divine, they have to be dependent on the Constitution and the law. At least I see it as a peasant man. I didn't finish some big schools like this colleague of mine, a farmer, who threw people off the train just because they spoke English. It was in his youth, after his confession. He'd probably be kicking people off the train today because they don't speak English. That's the way it is with them, they turn around in a moment of work. Is the Constitution and the law stopping the judiciary? Yeah. Here's a lawsuit against me, a certain Sasa Rasulovic, enough of it, he says 170, for words spoken at a pay phone. The Constitution, Article 103, my colleague Atlagic was with me, as an audience, the judge tells me the accused, I say I cannot be blamed, the Constitution, Article 103 guarantees me that when the MP performs his post, he cannot be called to criminal and other responsibility for an opinion or vote when he performs his post. This one sued me for the words spoken for this pay phone while he distracted me here. And it sued me for what – Madam President, let's put this one in front of me, standing here like a stiff tomato, distracting me as I speak. I didn't even mention his name, and he sued me, and this one took me to trial. He says, maybe that's what the Constitution says. I tell him - there's a law in the congregation, it says the same thing. He says it's written by the Constitution and the law, but let me write down those members, the man who swore to the Constitution. He says, but I mean different than it says in the Constitution and the law. This is the 2009 judiciary, which was supposed to serve, these are the courts of their party, to embrace everything in privatization of all the 6.7 billion, the entire value of social capital, which they spent, and what was worth far more, those are their tycoons' friends. Both of them came up with the courts of their own party, to cover all the rosemary and chess, and today they teach us a lesson. That judge of theirs, under the assumption, of my remark, that the lawsuit was filed latinically and that I didn't love those latinic marks, and that I was asking that the suit be treated, after I was sued by a candidate for the President of the Republic of Serbia and delivered to me at Cyrillic. The judge says, here's Marko Atlagic, I don't think you have the right to Cyrillic, and I say - I'm not Croat, I'm sorry, I was born a Serb, and that's the only reason I'm guilty and I don't have the right to Article 10. The Constitution is entitled to a Cyrillic letter in its own country. You gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary, either I will no longer be an MP or it will not be a judge. No matter what party he came from, if he came from the party, and there is a reasonable doubt that it was this famous reform in which even some people who were dead were elected. She says he's a little dead, but he was a fan of that party, too. They pick him, even though he was dead. So that's that famous reform and that's those famous remarks. Now, look, equality before the law, it's human rights, gentlemen of the prosecution, gentlemen of the High Council of the judiciary, gentlemen of the Justice Department, you can't get in there too much, because they immediately are independent of this, as if it were some divine, they don't realize that we have the right to equality in court. The first basic court of fellow Martinovic, for spoken words at the pay phone, frees him. Comrade Atlagic, here I have everything, free. But I'm being prosecuted. I must have been so hard on them. So now these parties still have some sympathy, some of their courts, some of their judges, and I believe there is a difficult task ahead of you. The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. Let some of them process some of the crimes and criminals there who are not Serbs. It's the right to equality in court. And the victims of the deceased have the right to be equal before the courts, to be punished in the same way as crimes against them. You can't do things like the Hague Court in the future. It was a duplicate of The Hague court, even worse than the Hague court. It's The Hague Court squared. It can't be like that. It can't be someone's fault just because he's a Serb or that the victim who was Serbian isn't worth processing. It's just not acceptable. All victims have the right to the perpetrators of punishment, those who commit these crimes, whatever they believe, half the race, etc. They have to be punished for getting kicked off the train. From our political leadership, the International Court of Justice, alleged to have made bandits, and allegedly made Albanian bandits political leadership. You have to keep that in mind, start processing other non-Serbs as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15839	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of LJupka Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15840	Chairman, you know very well, according to Article 106, that the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. You didn't warn the previous speaker. As far as I know, among these 43rd agenda points, for which we have little time anyway, were not the points of the agenda bankruptcy, presidential elections, etc. If, in the meantime, you've decided to put in a new point, for example, Presidential elections, you could have informed us about it so we could get ready, and then let's talk about how some percentages were made through capillaries. You know, these are those voices where people who work in public enterprises were blackmailed to ask their employees to collect safe votes. We could have talked about various kinds of manipulations and finally said and explained that each of those on the list had reached the percentage that it had reached. However, since this was not on the agenda, when you put it on the agenda we will be very happy to explain how in the next elections these percentages will look very different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15841	I believe that my colleague Risticevic did not violate the Rules of Procedure, and he only mentioned the presidential elections on the same time. I don't know why you're so angry about it. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. A colleague of Radulović, on what basis? (Saša Radulovic: Replica. He mentioned me. He mentioned your name and just said that you sued him, nothing more. (Saša Radulovic: He mentioned me by name and last name in a negative context. How did that offend you? (Saša Radulovic: He mentioned me several times. Bad names. No, my colleague Radulovic, I don't know why you recognized yourself in some of his words, he didn't mention you at any point. (Sasa Radulovic: How are you not ashamed? I am not ashamed, because as a MP, I am prepared to bear a political struggle here in the Assembly, not to sue and write criminal charges for what he told me in the assembly. That's all cowards do. When you wave the Constitution, you participate in the violation of the Constitution, and I belong to those who do not consider the Constitution to be not the Holy Scriptures. It is for the People's Messengers. We're done. (Sasa Radulovic: Why are you yelling? Shame on you. ) The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go. (People's MPs earn: Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15842	Can I speak? Yeah. Thank you very much. I want to respond for the third time today to incorrect interpretations of both this loan and the situation and the movement of the debt of the Republic of Serbia and the interpretation of that movement. I think it's very important that we understand what's going on. I'm willing to explain to everyone every number and interpretation of that number, because I can't influence the intentions of speakers, MPs and everyone else, but I can help you understand each other. The first question is a very legitimate question – on what basis we have proposed this law and on what basis we are voting today, or we propose that parliament vote ratification, ratify this loan. I will remind you, by the Budget Law, before that other documents, but finally by the Budget Act 2017 in Article 3b. The second indent is written with the same name and with the exact same sum – 182 million and 600,000 euros in this loan. Look, it's right there. It was explained there that this was for funding budget implementation and as is usually done in Article 3b. It does not specify which part of the deficit, the expected deficit or any other part of the funding is a particular source to work, but only that it represents the general revenue of the budget. It is written in the Law on the Budgetary System and in the Law for 2017. Second, what are the funds used for? These funds are not for EPS. This is the programming budget and, as such, provides funds that go towards general support for the budget, and here three pillars, which make up the content of reforms that give us this loan of support, make up not only EPS, but make up three pillars, one of which is public administration reform and the public sector in general, the other is energy, and the third is traffic. And to each of these sectors, I have already mentioned it today, I suppose you weren't in the O.R., as it is written in the document you received and which is an integral part of the official document signed with the World Bank and whose ratification we are expecting today, it is written with a very concrete indication of each official list of all reforms that have already been made. The date of the document is 20 January 2017, and all reforms have been carried out during 2015 and 2016. It is true that some speakers have said that there is also a promise to extend these reforms, but they do not appear in conditions. So there are no conditions. Money doesn't go to EPS. The money goes to the general budget of the state, and what is the role in the EPS with everyone else mentioned here is to implement the reform programme that was adopted, to remind you, in June 2015. So the EPS adopted the plan and the government confirmed it in June 2015. On this basis, the programme and rationalisation of the number of employees are being implemented, and an increase in the efficiency and improvement of collection and security of the country's strategic energy security over the longer term, etc. These are all documents that have been brought in and listed in this document. So, this programme is supported by a soundly reasoned approach to reform in some key areas, state reform, public administration and general public sector, energy reform and transport system reform, where the focus here is on Railways, on something we've been dealing with for years and decades, on EPS, "Serbigas" and all other things. And it says here, if anyone has forgotten, they write a list of twenty things, the strategic documents that we have brought in, and who, with full understanding, they treat us as already achieved results, and that's why they give us the funds. The funds are for that. Is that a new assignment or not? It is a new loan, it is not a new debt because the funds are not tied, because the date with this adoption we are in – the last result is from the end of April, in a mild surplus, we may have a slight deficit in May, but all together we are about 50, 60 billion ahead of the plan we planned with the IMF. We're half a billion euros ahead of that. Our funding needs are half a billion euros less. That's exactly what the debt cuts are for. She'll be published in two days. We tell you the information that will be signed and published in two days. I'm telling you the information. Here, hold my word. I'll apologize publicly if there's a mistake. So, on December 31st, our number differs precisely because we are talking about the debt of the central state, because this parliament adopts the budget and talks about the debt of the central state, and you mention the debt of the general state where local self-government and unguaranteed debt enter, etc. It's easy to tell the difference. There are documents. That's why the numbers differ. Our number says we had a 24 billion and 800 debt on December 31st and a 24 billion and a 100 million on April 30th. The difference is, on May 10th, the situation is even better, but then there was a difference of about 650 million, which is completely hitting on this 600 million figure I mentioned to you. What will the funds be used for? It will be used for or financing the deficit, if it is, but rather to pay off the most expensive loans. As you know, the loans that are comparable to the sector we paid about 6.5%, 6.7%. Compared to these loans, we're going to have 0.7% here, all interest 0.7%, and we're going to pay back in 2036, in 20 years one so-called. Bullet pace at the end. We can go back early, if we want to, without a pen, so we're paying 0.7%. Compared to that, it's 10 times better than on commercial terms we got for those loans. In other words, if the records of value that we issued four, five years ago come now, suppose it's true in the amount of 182.600,000, if we return it, we'll pay 10 times less interest on that amount of debt. So we're not going to increase our debt and we're going to pay 1.2 million a year instead of 12 million a year. Well, now you figure out what kind of savings that is? It's a $10.8 million budget savings only by one operation, which at the same time supports the very positive things we're doing, which is the reform programme, the key reforms that I've been talking about. Compared to the average, I already mentioned this earlier today, compared to the average debt price, it is six, seven times more, or less, cheaper. So these are huge savings. Finally, what are we accomplishing together? We achieve that, and I said that today and I will repeat, that we get from the World Bank the most favourable means of 20 years of "grais" and only in the end you pay for the funds that are terribly limited. The World Bank has a capital increase limit, has very limited total funds, and in particular the funds it gives to support the budget. The countries in Europe, they're all fighting for it. Serbia has received four, five times more than its GDP than other countries because it has proved to be a serious talker who writes what they write in reforms and implements. Look, it's a huge confession. We have a billion and 600 promised World Bank funds for a three-year programme, countries that are five times our size have 500 million, three times our size. It's the means for which everyone's fighting, free resources. In addition, we have funds for investment loans and you will soon get some loans that are special loans for insurance against elemental disasters, where we will get the funds that stand in the reserves for God's sake, we will pay minimum funds, minimum money, to keep it going, so that we can withdraw funds and fight if, God forbid, there are floods or anything else that could endanger normal economic life in Serbia. Finally, it's two things about debt growth. We can't comment on everything in one replica, or in one comment, but please look only at the rainbow since we started with this program. We can have a special session on how long we've been moving from time to time, let's look at the debt. These reforms started officially on January 1st, 2015, so late 2014. The debt situation was 22.2 billion on 31 December 2014, when we set out for these reforms. Today, the debt situation is only two billion more. Don't talk about things, there's these increases before, but they've been completely, ever since we started reforming the debt increase is just two billion and it's directly affected by the deficit figures that we know happened in 2015 and 2016, there's no dilemma. Don't make a public impression that someone's in debt, and the money's gone. That's absolutely incorrect. We keep the liquidity strictly under control, and we only owe ourselves as much as we have to and we reduce, we permanently increase the maturity, we reduce the cost of borrowing, and this is an example of that. Remember, twice a billion UAE, where we got 2%, we get 0.7% here. Therefore, we are doing everything we can to reduce our debt and start to reduce debt participation in GDP, and we will continue until we arrive on a sustainable path and very soon, hopefully, we come on a path that, as it is now in the deficit, will be below the Mastrict, we will be a country that will fulfill our own promises and a country that will be a reputation for everyone in the region and in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15843	Thank you. (Goran Ciric: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Kiric. (Goran Ciric: I think we've now got a chance to really talk. You have no right. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15844	Thank you. Article 103(1) - The MP shall have the right to orally indicate an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he is not in conformity with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the infringement has been done. Article 3 The President of the National Assembly shall give a word to the MP who shall indicate the infringement referred to in Article 1. Please, the chairman, before you gave the word to Minister Vujovic, I waved to the Rules of Procedure and responded after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You pretended not to see me, and you denied me the word, and then I wanted to report to Rule 104, which defines that the MP has the right to reply, which you denied to the People's Rules of Procedure, Sasa Radulovic. Please explain why you have denied a replica that belongs to a colleague, Radulovic, because it is mentioned by name and last name in an offensive context, and even if his last name is not mentioned, our MP group is so mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15845	First of all, my colleague Stamenkovic, I am not obliged to look at the O.R. when you are waving at the Rules of Procedure, so I have not noticed you, and I have already given the word to Minister Vujovic when you have electronically applied for the word and said - according to the Rules of Procedure. (Branka Stamenkovic: It is not true. That's right, there are so many MPs here to testify. It is true that counterpart Marijan Risticevic mentioned the name and name of MP Sasa Radulovic, not to dispute, is, and mentioned that he sued the court. I don't see what's offensive about it, unless it's true, and I know it's true. So it's not filled, except for the name and last name, not a single basis for getting a replica. There is nothing offensive if you are suing someone, but it is a little unusual for an MP to sue an MP for a voiced opinion and vote in the National Assembly. There's a legal institute called inviolability when performing a function. That's where the non-vulnerability is by the MPs of the Constitution. To me, this discussion was very, not interesting, but I wanted to hear that one of the holders of the judicial office violate the Constitution, defamation the National Assembly, demeaning the MPs, and I can't wait for it to be found here in the debate over his mandate. One more thing to tell you, whoever MP happens to me, whether I am the President of Parliament, Vice President, or an ordinary MP or citizen, I will always defend the MP from any party to come, when it comes to cases like this, even if it was Sasa Radulovic, not to sue a fellow MP. The word is Sandra Kulezic, in front of the State's Attorney General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15846	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs before you is a proposal for the first election of 17 candidates to elect a deputy public prosecutor. In line with its powers, the state's major prosecutors provided the names of those candidates, called the prosecutors' offices in which both the election and the reasoning and decision with the legal basis on which it was made, as well as the biographies of all candidates. Since during yesterday's and today's debates several times disputed the content of this argument, i.e. the biography of the proposed candidates, I consider it my duty to explain to you why it seems so and why it should look that way. Furthermore, to remove doubts about the regularity of this procedure by the State Council of Prosecutors, which stemmed from the comments of certain MPs. First of all, I would like to point out that this contest was conducted for the first time on the basis of the Regulation, the new Regulation by the State's Major Prosecutors, which is the Regulation on the professionality and competence and dignity of the candidates in the first-election procedure, or in the first-time selection procedure. What's the meaning of this Regulation? This Regulation was adopted in accordance with the amendments to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, in particular Article 77a, which prescribed that the professionality and competence of the candidates, which is a key moment for selecting a particular candidate for a public prosecutor's office, should therefore be checked for the professionality and competence of the candidates in the examination organised by the State Greater Prosecutors. Prior to that examination, it is important for the candidate to apply for a competition and to meet the conditions prescribed by law for the election. So, if he had graduated from law school, he had passed a judicial exam, that he was a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and that he had three years of working experience following a legal trial. What is beyond the importance of selecting candidates is the exam conducted by the State's Major Prosecutors. That exam consisted of two parts. Candidates who met the conditions passed the first written test, which consisted of 20 questions from the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Code, and then passed the second part of the test which was practically the making of a public prosecutor's decision, i.e. the sentences of the indictment act, on the basis of the task set up by the examination committee. I think it's important to say that both of these exams have been slowed down anonymously, more specifically, the candidates have received their codes when entering the laying room, which marked their tasks, these tasks have been returned with codes and what is even more significant, the commission that evaluated and one and the other part of the exams have passed the exams under codes. Only after the second part of the procedure has been completed and after it has been decided by the candidates' objections to those assessments, the second part has only opened these codes and we have seen which candidates have received what grades. This commission, to say the least, was composed of a deputy public prosecutor, so a colleague of the profession. Of which, two members of the State Council and one fellow deputy of the Appealal Prosecutor's Office. After the candidates received their evaluations in the exam, after these lists were published, after having had the possibility of objecting, after having formed the ranking lists following the final decisions under appeal, the State's major prosecutors again, in accordance with this Regulation, which I mentioned at the beginning, which was adopted in accordance with the Public Prosecutor's Law, held talks with the candidates. Yesterday, it seemed to me, too, that the remark was about these conversations, where commenting was that such conversations meant a new determination of expertise and dignity. As far as I know, one group of our colleagues even filed an initiative to assess the constitutionality of that part of the candidate's assessment. It is therefore important to point out that this part of the candidate's evaluation is not an evaluation of expertise and training, it is solely related to the written exam. Why? Because talking to a candidate who performs three members of the State Council of Prosecutors is intended, above all, to get a complete impression of each candidate individually. The discussion comes as candidates who passed the State Council of Prosecutors exam, as well as members of the judicial academy whose final assessment from the judicial academy accounts as an assessment of expertise and dignity. So at one point, all candidates are in front of members of the council. Is it possible to choose, that is, to propose a choice by the Deputy Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor, without being seen and not spoken to by the members of the Attorney General, I think you will agree with me that this is not possible and that this is not right. On the other hand, whether it would make sense for the members of the State Council to hold talks with the candidates, and that they are not worth0 is particularly important that the written examination in this evaluation system is a total of five points, so that is the maximum rating that can be obtained on the written exam, and on the other hand, the assessment of the talks is a maximum of three points. Therefore, conversation and some impression cannot overcome what is primary, which is a test of expertise and training through the exam. One of the questions was, are there any records of these conversations? No, there's no record of those conversations. Those conversations are being recorded. All candidates, previously invited to sign consent to record these talks and, I think, all but one candidate accepted that the conversation be recorded and the conversation serves as evidence of what members of the State's Council of Prosecutors appreciated in the course of the talks. What's to be appreciated through that conversation? The conversation appreciates the skills of communication, the ability to explain legal views is appreciated. These talks discuss laws or regulations that are important for the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. There's talk about the Ethics Code of Public Prosecutors, there's talk about a regulation on the Public Prosecutor's Office, meaning something that will be important to those colleagues, the future deputy public prosecutor, to their work, except, of course, the knowledge of the rules of those that are relevant to the decision-making itself. And what's important is that the biggest controversy was related to this conversation is that the regulation stipulates that anyone can attend this conversation. Anyone who applies in time to the state council will attend the talks unless the candidate specifically requests that the conversation be closed to the public. Of course, the recordings of these talks serve exclusively for the work of the Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors and cannot be made public unless candidates who have given their consent specifically agree. So, after an assessment is received at the interview, the Commission of State Greater Prosecutors and that previous ranking committee draws up a previous ranking list. The ranking list consists of an evaluation of the exams and an evaluation of the talks. Afterwards, candidates have the right to object to the ranking list and, after the conclusion of the decision after the complaint, to make decisions by appeal, the Commission proposes to the State's Council of Prosecutors a larger number of candidates for the election. With each candidate, it gives a very broad explanation of the reasons why the candidate differs from other candidates who are not proposed. What's the fact about this competition is that a very large number of candidates participated in the competition. 178 people competed for 17 places, so 10 times what we chose. What's also a fact is that we had an extremely large number of excellent candidates, people who got maximum grades both in writing and in conversation. That on the one hand means that we don't have to worry about the future of the prosecution and the personnel who will be there in the future, but on the other hand, it means that the commission had a very serious and very difficult job. And she took the job and the candidates she proposed to the National Assembly very seriously, she thinks they're the best candidates of all the best that's been pretty. The proposed candidates have the highest marks. They gave the commission the best impression, the impression of expertise, the dignity, the ability to communicate, that tomorrow they'd be doing the job we proposed for. What's more important about this second part of the grade, I forgot to say it a little while ago, is that this evaluation isn't just an evaluation of the conversation. This assessment also includes years of work experience that the Commission appreciates, years of working experience under the judicial examination, and the evaluation of any postgraduate studies completed by the applicant, evaluation of the legal exam, evaluation, and that part of the evaluation is published by the scientific and professional papers, etc. So these are the elements that the state's major prosecutors consider to be the candidate of whom some who have been proposed have 10 and more years of employment as prosecutor's associates, not the unimportant average grades at the university, on the contrary, and the average grades at the university were seen when they were received in court, in the prosecution, as an intern, as a volunteer, I stress. And in some cases even after a court trial, most people were volunteers. So then they were looking at average college grades. Now you've seen all this stuff I've been telling you about. Since some individual candidates have also been mentioned here, I will only briefly look back at these discussions. I do find it inadmissible that, through comments on candidates who have been proposed for any judicial function, their work or their quality is commented through decisions made by these candidates, especially by giving the numbers of those decisions, so that I will absolutely no longer engage in that kind of comment, except that I consider it inadmissible. When it comes to candidate Miljan Dedic, who was mentioned by one of the MPs, reading and publishing the names of family members and the work that they are doing, I am responsible for saying that, like all the other candidates, he was chosen solely on the basis of the evaluation he received on the exam and on the basis of the impression that the Commission of the State Council of Prosecutors had in the conversation and other criteria that are being pushed through that assessment. So, this candidate had a maximum number of points, that candidate has six years of work as a prosecutor's associate and has all the recommendations that tomorrow well, well, well, effectively performs the function we proposed him to. Whether someone's parents are also in the judiciary must certainly not be a discriminatory circumstance in relation to their children, nor will we allow ourselves to do so. In time, if you remember, there was a story on the subject – judge, lawyer, etc., so the Constitutional Court said it was discriminatory and that such things could not be applied, so I don't see why a child of someone working in the judiciary would be discriminated against when proposing and electing a public prosecutor. On the contrary, it can only mean that for many years back from his parents he learned the things he would need in the future. So, I'm gonna finish this discussion, even though I had more to tell you, but there's going to be an opportunity for some other competition. I call on MPs to vote on the State's Council of Prosecutors' proposal in the day of voting, as the State's chief prosecutor has proposed candidates he considers to be professionally, securely and responsibly carrying out this responsible function on which they are proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15847	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15848	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished ministers, respected members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, I thought there would be no need to take a word at today's meeting, but simply, the citizens of Serbia must be clearly presented and made aware that some who allowed themselves to re-emerge yesterday and today, as well as some previous sessions, without any arguments, without any evidence, insult their own state, insult judges, insult the prosecution, insult people who work their jobs in the most frequent, honest and conscious way possible. He's got to react and he's got to back it up again. I'm really not in a dilemma. Why are they still doing this? Is it a habit, is it fear and perhaps confusion? When I say the habit, those who in 2009 have mutilated the Serbian judiciary with their disastrous decisions and tried to completely destroy it, insulting, humiliating more than a thousand people who were judges, prosecutors, in the Republic of Serbia, obviously cannot do so and manipulate themselves. What my colleague Djukanovic missed to say, and I will not repeat what he said from the Vlasotans about who was going to be the judge and who was going to be the prosecutor in 2010, to add that this arrogance went to the point where the stamps of the Democratic Party and the seals of the Municipality of Vlasotince were placed on such correspondence. We can even attribute it to stupidity, not just haughtiness. But we cannot attribute pride to the abuse of the Security and Information Agency of the Republic of Serbia, which no legal authority has ever had, nor has it now, that it collects data in any way and participates in the selection of judges and prosecutors. As long as their haughtiness and willingness to lie tells us that Sasa Jankovic, the presidential candidate at the time of the ruling party who made the massacre with the Serbian judiciary, tried to cover it up by giving a false report that the BIA did not participate, but in some voluntary way then Minister Snezana Malovic came out and said certain data were obtained from the BIA. Then don't be surprised why they think they can do what they did in 2009 and why they want to do it again. Gentlemen and ladies of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors and the Ministry of Justice, I congratulate you first on the courage to decide among the best and to suggest which are the best among the best candidates, on the courage to engage in repairing, first putting on your feet, and then correcting what we thought at some point that you could never put yourself on your feet after what was done in 2009. Congratulations on both courage and success. I congratulate you on the fundamentality and transparency of how you do your part of the work in this procedure. Don't be surprised by the second attitude of my trilemic why someone insults their country, insults the most honorable and honest people in this country, which is fear. You know, someone out of fear of attack. Instead of fearing justice that sooner or later will catch up with him for what he did outside the law, he heals himself by moving aggressively to attack and insult what he fears most, and apparently fears justice. Justice is something that is impertinent and true is something that sooner or later has to achieve the right result. I'm going to give myself the right to say that maybe some today and yesterday were even mistaken that respected fellow judges and esteemed co-workers from the D.A. thought they were in the courtroom, so they were practicing their defense for future trials, even though those defenses were very naive and ridiculous. I don't think such defenses and such behaviour or the worst lawyer would advise them in the Republic of Serbia, but forgive them for misusing both yours and our time and the time of the citizens of Serbia and this TV broadcast to try and lie to themselves that they didn't do evil, and they did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-12-0.u15849	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 42 of the agenda. We're going to the 43rd item of the agenda. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly. Does anyone else want a word with the Proposer's representative? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a single search into the draft decision. We're moving to agenda 44. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single debate on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Does the promoter want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a single search into the draft decision. We'd be done with this today. We'll continue Monday with the beginning at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
