ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 141 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. In accordance with Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called this session on Friday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have been presented the minutes of the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 3 March 2017. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the 6th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 3 March 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 3 March 2017. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. We move to a decision on proposals for review of acts by emergency procedure. National MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic suggested putting the draft law on the agenda of Serbia's military neutrality. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Thirty-two MPs proposed putting on the agenda the proposal for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 April 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstentions for – 13, against – 13. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs of the Dveri Group suggested that, in an emergency procedure, the draft decision on the education of the polling committee should be put on the agenda to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the presidential elections to the day of publication of the temporary election results at 99.9% of polling stations. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – 15 against – one abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law confirming the agreement on amendments between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on international road traffic, concluded with the exchange of notes, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislatives of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 82(2) of the Law on Stateway and Cataster (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No 72/09/18/10, 65/13,15/15-US and 96/15) be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for three MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for six messengers. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - six MPs, against - two, with abstentions - no. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for six messengers. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for four messengers. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games of Happiness. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the full freedom of minors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. Does the MP want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be completed by the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. Does the MP want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Does the MP want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for – five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to identify the facts and circumstances relating to the events during the 2016 election process, from the date of the call of the Republic elections until the date of publication of the final results of the elections. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14786	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who follow this direct transfer of work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is being assisted by God to all. Today, we had a new situation that the ruling majority rejected the urgent procedure proposal to form a congregation survey committee to determine the full truth about regularity or irregularity recently, i.e.. only last night, ending so-called. Presidential election. It's just another proof in a series of things we keep talking about, that you have something serious to hide. Because if you were actually proud that the elections were fair and regular, you would have formed a assembly survey committee, which would have proved that there were no electoral irregularities and you would have been justified in front of the whole public. The same applies to this proposal by the Assembly Committee for the Study of Election Irregularities from a year ago with previous extraordinary republican elections. There is one special interest – that you yourself, in particular the head of the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Martinovic, have proposed the formation of a parliamentary survey committee, and then voted against your own proposal. So something happened in the meantime, and you realized that in that fight and in that assembly survey board, you couldn't win and that he would just show the truth about the electoral irregularities that you served both last year and this year. I repeat again, and I think it is the most important argument that I would like to offer to Serbian citizens -- that the Serbian Progressive Party and the rule in general have nothing to hide as they stole from the elections, they would agree to the formation of a parliamentary polling committee, and that would prove that the elections were regular. As soon as you don't agree to this on the agenda, it's clear that you're hiding something serious. What exactly are you hiding? You're hiding that the unique voter list is unscheduled and that there are many dead souls in it who vote for the SNS. You are hiding that in Serbia it is media darkness, that there is an absolute media imbalance of all electoral participants, that there are no political emissions, that there is no debate, that there is no confrontation, that you have taken over a complete media monopoly in Serbia. You also hide that REM does not exist, that the Republican Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media is not doing its job and does not control the media equality of all electoral participants. You are hiding that on the Republic Election Commission, you have again brought an anti-constitutional manual on how to vote in Kosovo and Metohija. So RIK has declared himself larger, or above the Constitutional Court of Serbia. So if we don't put this point on the agenda, you're hiding that you've committed an election theft.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14787	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote for – 18 MPs, against – one, with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no one with abstention for the six Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović proposed to supplement the agenda of the session with a point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on temporary adjustment of the way pensions are paid. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14788	Thank you, Chairman. I think our oldest citizens, pensioners, and how they support putting this bill on the agenda. Namely, the law you passed three years ago, when the pensioner's robbery started in Serbia, bore a name that is very characteristic. You called it the Retirement Retirement Act. So, you were going to say that for the sake of budget savings, you're going to temporarily cut pensions until the state gets on its feet. It's been going on for three years. So there's no such temporaryity, there's an idea that further taxation is made by our oldest citizens. That's actually what I've been talking about since I became a National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You never had the guts or the courage to tax those to be taxed in Serbia – foreign banks, foreign companies and tycoons. You only have the courage to tax your own citizens, so you cut your wages, so you cut your pensions, so in every other way you raise the burden on your own citizens. If you were politically brave, if you were serious, if you really wanted to tax those who earn extra profits on the coat of arms of this people, you would further tax all foreign banks in Serbia, you would also tax all tycoons who do not pay next to them, you would additionally tax foreign companies that, believe it or not, I refer to SNS and SPS voters to pay attention to this detail, foreign businesses in Serbia do not pay taxes on the profits they earn here in Serbia and make extra profits from Serbia by false bookkeeping business, which shows their business in Serbia with a loss so that they do not pay taxes on profits achieved. Now, that's what you're allowing. Instead of taxing that extra, instead of paying taxes to those who really live on the back of this people, you're additionally taxing the army, the police, educational workers, health workers, and specifically by this law, which you yourself called the Law on the temporary way of paying off pensions, you're actually robbing pensioners. Well, is that fair? Is it fair and fair that it's a brave and fair government that robs and taxes its own people, and it's not allowed to deal with those who rob this country, which is foreign banks, they're secretions and they're foreign companies? That is why, of course, we are proposing a law of termination, namely the termination of the law on the temporary way of paying off pensions, because it is finally time to end the robbery of our oldest citizens and pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14789	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there was no vote for—17 MPs, against—one who had abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14790	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must really appeal to you again, such an extremely brotherly, friendly, human, Serbian, call it whatever you want, but it's truly quite sincere. First of all, I would like to thank the peoples of the ruling majority who voted in favour of the proposal at the last session to put this text on the resolution on genocide against Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia on the agenda. Well, good for you, too, and I'm deeply grateful. I'm expressing my really open and sincere respect for this act. Now I urge, indeed, everyone else to go that way together. Here, I will also read to the citizens of Serbia that text of the resolution, so that we can all look together to see if there's anything controversial that we can't all support together. Resolution on the genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II: 1) that the crimes of the Ustasha against Serbs, Jews and Roma during the Second World War in the Independent State of Croatia were designed and planned genocide, as defined by the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Genocide adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 9 December 1948; 2) that only during the implementation of this genocide was committed in the Jasenovo system of Croatian concentration camps for the extermination of Serbs, Jews, Jews and Roma and non-sanitaries tortured, robbed, raped and then killed by NDH 700,000 Serbs, 23,000 Jews, and 80,000 Roma, only because they belonged to other people, religion or race. 3) that the Independent State of Croatia was the only country during World War II where concentration camps existed for the extermination of children in Stari Gradišca, Jasenovac, Ustica, Jablanac, Jastrebarski, Rivers near Jastrebarski, Gornji Rijeka in Križevci and Lobograd, and that, according to its still unfinished research, it was lost, believed or not, 42,791 Serbian child, 5,737 Roma and 3,710 Jewish children; 4) that the crime of genocide in NDH was forced to change its national and spiritual historical identity and to deny its Orthodox faiths and under durest and mortal Romanism. Dear fellow Members of the People, is there one word in these words that we cannot all sign together? If it is disputed that the Dveri are the proponent of this resolution, I am prepared to withdraw it, to propose it to the ruling party, anyone in power, and to pick up the points, if the question is who will be the bearer of this resolution. It doesn't matter to me at all, it's important to me that after more than 70 years this House of the People's Assembly brings one such resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14791	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesovic suggested that the agenda be supplemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14792	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry we haven't been able to reach a consensus again on a very important national issue, but we're moving on. We hope that the government will come to realize how important some topics are. What we propose by this law through amendments and additions to the Law on the PIO Fund is something that we have jointly conceived, designed and ordered, in collaboration with our strategic social partners, which is the Association of the Union of Pensioners of Serbia and the Association of Unions of Retired Military Persons of Serbia. I want to thank them for their truly remarkable contribution to the fight to protect the union rights of pensioners in Serbia because I think these two unions are a real example of how the unions in Serbia should function. I think they protect pensioners' interests in the right way, unlike some fake pensioners like PUPS. What this law proposes and I think that something in particular we insist on is actually calling on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in which it clearly states in Article 70 that the Republic of Serbia is taking care of the economic security of pensioners. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to regularly coordinate pensions because otherwise pensioners would be brought into an unfavourable financial and social position because of an inflationary reduction in the actual value of their pensions. So, the thing is very simple. Prices rise, constant inflationary pressure on full life and consumer basket in Serbia, you have a situation where you do not coordinate pensions with the cost of life. In fact, you were in law when you reduced your pensions three years ago, abolishing a provision that existed as an obligation for the state to coordinate at an annual level the amount of pensions with the cost of living. We ask that this provision be returned and that pensions be re-coordinated with inflationary pressures every year. That, I'd say, is a perfectly reasonable and normal request on our part and I don't really see a real reason not to be supported by the ruling majority either. Speaking of which, I don't see PUPS coming out of retirement without voting in favour of this proposal, Dveri. I really can't understand that. The second thing that is very important here is a proposal to change the structure of the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund. What did you do? You have reduced the number of members of the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund to seven, of which you have placed four in the ranks of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, thus taking over most of the PIO Fund and thus taking over to manage the assets of the PIO Fund and now you are selling out spas and special hospitals. You have no right to do that. It is the property of the PIO Fund and it must be placed in the role of domestic and economic interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14793	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts of the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14794	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens, my colleague Marko Djurisic and I have suggested the formation of a polling committee because it is a shame for Serbia, a shame for all of us sitting here for almost a year doesn't know who the perpetrator is, who the perpetrator is, and in fact it is known but has become a public secret, so someone thinks that over time someone will forget and that there will be no more subject, like the floods in Obrenovac, like the lost lives during these May floods, like helicopters, like everything that's been going on in the last five years. It is more than clear that, after the fact that the cadastre, a republican cadastre, had wiped Samara out of its actual existence before she was brought down, it is said that it was an organized crime organised at the republican level, that it was carried out by the highest officials of the city's authorities in Belgrade, that those who managed and commanded police not to make calls to the citizens and those who run the municipal police today. They also ignored citizens' calls and all that happened on the night of the 24th and 25th. It ends a year after the biggest crime in the modern history of the capital and the greatest shame for the city of Belgrade. We think that the formation of a polling committee is a very important thing, because we have the fact that the police didn't want to carry out investigative actions, that the prosecution didn't want to react and that the police would take a pre-examination procedure. We've had testimony, yet, from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia that he knows who brought down the Savamala, but he won't say, so there's another crime, concealing the crime. If we were to go into one spiral to list everything that hasn't been done in the past year, dozens of people would have to be heard and processed in the end, because we don't think anyone has the right to destroy private property. It is contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the laws of Serbia and Aleksandar Vucic, along with his associates, will eventually be responsible for what he knew or for ordering the destruction of objects in Savala. The Serbian Parliament's poll board would represent the only body, since the prosecution and police are not doing their job, which would somewhat try to resolve the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14795	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no votes for – 15 against – two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on additions to the Criminal Code. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14796	Thank you. This is a law proposed by Dragan Sutanovac, president of the Democratic Party in the past term. The law that caused the storm in the public, given that before New Year's Eve we had a heated debate in this home, when it comes to women's rights and domestic violence. So, this is a law that proposes to take away the abusers in the family firearms, but only those recorded at the police station. In this way, if we had adopted this law, we would have saved 43 lives by the end of last year, from the moment it was proposed, to the moment that you broke up the debate on the subject -- domestic violence, caused an incident in the Serbian Parliament because someone was deeply hurt by the truth, which is that we could have adopted this law that had nothing to do with politics and that we even suggested that most of them adopt it. We even suggested that we not use our time, to debate this law, but to leave it to you. We could have saved a few dozen women's lives. From your proposal to your rejection this year, over 50 women have lost their lives. This number is increasing in 2015 in 2016, and certainly tends to be even higher in 2017. So it's about thugs in the family who are registered in the police, who have legal weapons. This law would allow those weapons to be taken away. I don't need to tell you how many times it's happened, you know it best, but you pretend not to hear how many times it's happened that a registered bully was released from a police station, went back to his home, took his weapon and killed his wife, killed his family, killed a neighbor or friend. I think that this is how we could solve a burning problem today in Serbia. Dragan Sutanovac proposed this law because, above all, it prevents further crimes in Serbia, believe me, there is more and more. They're full of front pages, they're full of black chronicles in the paper. These cases happen every day, and you can prevent this from taking this law as freely as yours, and nobody from the Democratic Party's parliamentary club has to take a single minute in that debate, but it's very important that you understand how many lives you can save by adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14797	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14798	Thank you. This is another draft law, and we have had opportunities to discuss in the last few years the subject of these harmful agreements that have literally made Serbia a slave country. What's very important is that here investments are such that no one invests any money from abroad, and these agreements are completely fake. Serbian citizens with their impoverished budgets, with reduced salaries and pensions, are funding these projects benefiting only from a small group of people close to the Serbian Progressive Party's top. They are friends or the Prime Minister or ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The product of this agreement is, of course, the project "Belgrade on Water". He's quite clear from a psychological point of view is clear, given who suggested him. If you're not doing anything your whole life, but your functions in parliament and government are the first jobs in your life, and then you have to keep showing and proving that you're doing something, that you're standing up for someone 24 hours a day. If on the other hand you have no idea and you have no education on what the values of the Republic of Serbia are, what it says in the Constitution. If we studied this Faculty of Law, then it is known that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a cultural heritage constitutional category. You can't just leave a clue in your life when you reach the authorities, because you wait for it to fall into your lap, rob resources, make a combination that you have a shopping mall, a pub, a mall, and then you have the idea of changing even the appearance of a capital, which exists in 1,000 years and planting a tower from Dubai in downtown Belgrade. So that's not just about the ignorance and the misunderstanding of the city in which you live. It's about the unculture, it's about the ignorance of ethics. You can finish colleges, you can be the best students in the history of these colleges, but if you don't know the basic rules of what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, and you're studying law school, then these agreements and such projects can't be considered at all. There are Serbian workers employed with 25,000 dinars, and Serbian citizens invest hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros. We think this is a very bad deal. He opened the door to corruption in Serbia, made it possible for you to treat a Serbian worker as a slave, as a man of unworthy work and his call, and we believe that this agreement must be terminated urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14799	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. There is no one who is abstentioned against the messengers of the nations. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on additions to the Labour Act. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14800	This is a fundamental law on the employment of young people, and I am glad that I finally came to defend the law when it comes to young people, when it comes to youth and knowledge leaving Serbia, which is the burning problem of our society. So it's not a fair society where only those who are close to the top of the government, party officials, can get jobs, is not a fair society where only those at the top of the government live well. Out of the unjust society, young people leave, people with knowledge. Without youth and knowledge, Serbia has absolutely no future. Investing in knowledge, culture and technological development, these are the only things that can immediately lead to Serbia's rebirth. They can speed up our development, or stop this huge spiral that we entered in the early 1990s. When these same actors were in power. In the 1990s, young people fled Serbia because they had no job, because they had no place to live, because they could not be recognized in any way in unculture, in rudeness. I think this law is very important because it allows some kind of practice to be established in addition to formal education. Today, a young man cannot be hired for the simple reason he has no work experience. That's the main excuse. Although you have an average of ten zeros in college. Although you don't have a college, if you're the best in a professional school, you can't get a job because they tell you absolutely there's no way, because you don't have a job experience. This is how we made it possible for both high school students and students to get into practice. That practice would be three months for high school to avoid abuse and six months for students, for those who study. For that practice, both the state and the employer would single out a small allowance that these young people could have. This increases competition in the labour market, both in Serbia and in the region. We believe that this is one of the ways that we can possibly make it easier for young people to get to work, not to do everything else, and to invest money in everything else, not what is the fundamental problem of this society that will disappear in ten years, if this pace of young people leaving with knowledge continues. We'll stay old-fashioned, old-fashioned, out-of-date. If young people do not stay in Serbia, Serbia will definitely not be. This is the law on the future of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14801	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way the pension is paid. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14802	Thank you. We've proposed this law as a Parliament club. It has been proposed by many other MPs. What is very important is that the law that you have passed will fall in the Constitutional Court when the Constitutional Court becomes an institution of integrity, not a political branch of the party in power. When the Constitutional Court does its job, this law will fall, and some next government will have to pay for all the backlogs, or the reduced ones that you have reduced during this period. This already happened once in 2000, after 5 October 2000, when we were returning back pensions, dozens of back-up pensions, both for farmers and for pensioners in Serbia, and we are now literally living our history again. So, the same set that was in power in the 1990s made pensioners, both young people and people, and today also reached for one very, by you, a justifiable measure that saves about 100m euros, and on the other hand 200m euros gives its friends from the United Arab Emirates to make sure that those who today built apartments of 3,500 euros per square square. Because of these savings, no young man will be hired. The Youth Employment Act, for example, costs 50m euros, and the effects are enormous, and the law that you have proposed to cut pensions only takes legally earned money from those who have worked fairly their entire lives. You took someone's property, then you spend it on some of your campaigns, some of your choices, you spend on some of your privileges, and those old people don't have their grandkids to give their allowance. These old people can't make their family happy with some dinar, because you know very well that many families in Serbia today support pensioners, but you don't care. As long as you enjoy your houses, villas, privatized factories, you don't care about those you've taken what you've earned your whole life. On the pretext that someone else will live better than that money, you have denied someone hope and denied the right to age, to a dignified age in Serbia. I think you should be ashamed of this law and this is also one of the things that Serbia will be remembered for, since all the countries in the region that have tried to pass such or similar legislation have been condemned by the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court in Serbia is pretending not to hear the law and not to hear what are constitutional categories and constitutional rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14803	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Nationally sent Balša Bozovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14804	So, if you prove that there is a public interest here, I would withdraw my bill, which was otherwise supported by my colleague Marko Djurisic, and together we have proposed this bill. What is very important is that Serbia has invested in an indirect and direct way several billion euros. On the other hand, an Arab investor, so-called An investor, invested 150m euros in a joint loan that we are paying as well as Serbia, but also he as an investor. A joint venture is formed where he has 68% ownership, and we are only 32% due to this contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia when someone will go to prison. The criminal application I filed against the government's authorised representative, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, for the signing of the Water Construction Treaty, eventually went to a special in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, which did not deny that there was no crime here. She only found it hard to prove it. Believe me, any future government will prove a crime and whoever signed this contract will end up in prison eventually. Billions of euros are given or paid or denied by Serbia to one's business partner, so that someone who was thrilled for the first time obviously left the country, would meet someone in the United Arab Emirates and invite him to come to Serbia to rob it. Well, that can't be a normal man's idea absolutely that something like that happened. If we had built apartments for young people with 30 square meters, if we'd built 10,000 apartments, if we'd built social housing and sold them as a state, it would have been worth it. If we had invested three times less money, then there made Google City, that even if the IT sector had some incentive, some boom in Serbia, and started to export from Serbia, then perhaps young people would have stayed in Serbia. This is how they have no business, and you rather than spend that money on young people in Serbia, you spend on your Arab partners who make money from Serbia and the impoverished citizens of Serbia. So these are two concepts, two different policies. It is your system of values and your policy of slave society and us who propose a society of free, educated citizens who will know to stay in Serbia, not to leave Serbia. It seems to you that those who know something get out of this country as soon as possible and this exodus policy of smart and young people won't last much longer and you won't be able to carry it out much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14805	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's National MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14806	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we need to discuss higher education. We need to talk about how our kids get out of college. We need to talk about what they teach in those colleges. We need to talk about how to train them to come out of college as people who are professional in what they were trained to do. We need to talk about how we no longer have lawyers finishing law school without being seen, let alone putting together some kind of contract. We need to talk about how we have people coming out of college and tomorrow they need to start working at some school, and they haven't had a minute or a pedagogical education or any class method or anything like that. We need to talk about what our college classes are like, what our college professors are like, what our conditions are in colleges, what our material is in colleges, what our colleges are like, what our job systematization is. We need to talk about whether it's okay to buy diplomas or it's still a shame, whether it's okay to copy scientific papers, plagiarize dissertations, thesis of seminarical, graduate and everything else we testify to. We need to talk about how college accreditation is going, what can those young people who ended up in colleges abroad do, and now they come back, and then they have to invest a whole small fortune so they can even get into the labour market in Serbia, and sometimes they're not allowed to nostrify diplomas, even if they're finished with the world's most prestigious universities and universities. We need to talk about what our student life looks like, how teachers are elected, how these professors work, what the dean's powers are, what the dean can do, what he can't do in college, how he's doing in colleges, how these university careers are going, how many points we need to go through next year, whether every year three or four times we need to react to the protests of students who come solely because they can't cope with the chaos that he's made in higher education. We need to talk about why the Bill of Law made by the Government comes upon the condemnation of all those who saw this law, private colleges, state colleges, the National Council for Higher Education, all people who do education, think about education, write about education, all agree that what we do is wrong, and you don't want to talk about it for two years now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14807	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14808	I want a word, Mr. Vice President, but I also want you to establish the quorum, since I see that there are a lot of MP cards behind which MPs do not sit, so please, before I continue, to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14809	Of course, colleague Jerkov. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to recheck the cards and determine the quorum. We'll take a break of 10 minutes. We continue work at 11 o'clock and 12 minutes. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Please confirm the quorum. I find there are 127 MPs present. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14811	Yes, but there is one next to counterpart Barisic and behind fellow Micina is a card behind which no one is sitting, which has been inserted into the electronic system. I'm just asking the service to regulate it, because you don't want to. The MPs don't see the cards that stand around them and no one sits behind them, so please get serious. If you're not interested in determining the agenda, say you're not interested. This is really embarrassing right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14812	Thank you, colleague Jerkov, for the suggestion. I'd like the technical service to deliver to us if there are such cards. I'll give you my word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14813	Do we have 126 now?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14814	We do. (Alexandra Jerkov: should I believe your word that we have 126? I just realized that we have 127 MPs. (Alexandra Jerkov: You said we did but then I saw the wrong cards. All right, colleague Jerkov. In order to determine the number of MPs, I ask the MPs to re-enter their identification cards, as well as the technical service to deliver to us, if there are cards that are in electronic units, and the MP is not present. I find there are 127 MPs present in the O.R. Comrade Jerkov, do you want a word now?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14815	Now the conditions have been met for the Assembly to declare my proposal, so I want to speak. I would like to suggest to my colleagues that we put the draft law on the basis of the education and education system on the agenda today. We heard on several occasions from Minister Sarcevic that a whole new law is being prepared. The draft, as it has the opportunity to be offered at a public debate, came upon the absolute agreement of all who deal with education in this country and their conclusion, their request and their application to Minister Sarčević and the Government of Aleksandr Vukić, is that at the same time the work on this bill is interrupted, given that as the government has imagined that this law looks, it will return our education to a period from the end of the last century and certainly of all the things that SNS is doing badly in the country, what they are doing in education may be potentially the most dangerous, most dangerous, and this really is the thing that we will have to correct for decades and generations to come. Even those things that were declared to exist in the current law proposals that education should be directed at developing individually, to develop as individuals, to develop a critical opinion, to grow into people who think with their own head, who can decide on their own life, to participate in the labour market, to have some knowledge, other than those who are memorized, are now being thrown out of what the Government of Serbia proposes absolutely. We're going back to the classroom model 150 years ago, to the course model 150 years ago, to the textbook model 150 years ago, to the knowledge model 150 years ago, and the result is that our children in schools are being placed in some sort of mold, although in these classrooms there are 30 completely different personalities, different persons with different interests, talents, possibilities. The teacher approaches everyone equally, he addresses everyone equally, and everyone is asked to do the same thing, only to learn by heart what they're told, and for that they'll get a grade. I suggest we go into the 21st century when it comes to education, and you, if you don't sit at 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14816	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, the abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk emissary want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14817	Thank you, Vice President. The government of the Republic of Serbia will not announce how many UAE companies "Al Ravafed", with which Serbia established a joint venture in 2014, paid money in the budget on behalf of the rent of 3.534 hectares of agricultural land owned by the Morovic Military Institute, a plant in Karadjordjevo. The Arab firm for the lease of these fields in 2015 paid only 60 euros per hectare, although the average price at which the orans in the municipality of Bačka Palanka, where the plant Karadjordevo, are auctioned, are about 350 euros. For Serbia, it is a clean loss of about a million euros and only on one property that has reached the hands of the Arab company. A joint venture founded on that occasion as if it had failed in the country. You can't see anywhere, there's no website, there's no phone number, and the door of the office in Boulevard, Michael Pupina, number six, in Belgrade, is locked. This was the time when the Serbian Ministry of Defence came up with a very strong and incomplete and unclear response that shows no price for land and how much money the lease has been used in Serbia's budget. The government and Serbian Parliament site no longer has a joint investment agreement, as well as an interstate agreement that was allegedly concluded by the government of Serbia and Al Dahra, which was then a partner in Serbia on paper with these anti-constitutional and illegal actions. So what you did in Karadjordjevo with agricultural land owned by the Morović Military Institute is now doing in every municipality in Serbia, in every municipality in Serbia, in every municipality in Vojvodina. Below the prices, below the grains, past the rules and by the law, you assign to your business partners agricultural land in state property so that it is below the price and below the grains by the rules and by the law. At the same time, 10 or 15 thousand families in Vojvodina, who live exclusively from the lease of state agricultural land, you leave without bread, without any income because the country that can belong to them is the country your business partners do not want, which is a land of poor quality, and you practically force honest peasants, couples and farmers to work as workers on agricultural land that you gave to your business partners. It's your investment in the economy, and that's why farmers have also settled into a group of people you're openly spittin' in the face of.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14818	I would like to thank my colleague Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on textbooks. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Yeah. Please re-apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14819	Thank you. This is the third one in that group of education laws that I have submitted to amend and supplement in anticipation of a new bill. It is obvious that when we adopted the Law on textbooks, Minister Verbic himself admitted that he was under certain pressure. It's obvious that certain private textbook publishers are more equal, as you would say here, to other textbook publishers in this country. It is obvious that their textbooks have certain advantages that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has very skillfully imposed, which, of course, is usually blamed by teachers, educators, teachers and teachers, who the Government itself, in the explanation of the Law on textbooks, when it proposed, cited as the center of corruption in education and had so many cheeks that teachers, teachers and teachers were to blame for the fact that our children were learning from bad textbooks. It's not teachers, teachers and teachers. It's not the parents' fault, and it's not the children's fault. It is the fault of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who failed to adapt one of the curricula and programmes to what they should be in 2017, did not make a good Law on textbooks that would force all publishers to make quality textbooks, did not make a good system of choice of textbooks, abolished the free textbooks programme, introduced complete chaos into the textbooks market and certain publishers very carefully chosen, I suppose, made it possible for textbooks to do whatever they want on the market. We found out on that occasion that there is some sort of, let's say, a textbook mafia, because it's a very large market, a safe market, because, of course, every parent and parent will take out a loan and borrow money, if necessary, just to buy their child a textbook required at school. We have learned that there are publishers in this country who can do absolutely whatever they want, that they make parents buy textbooks that children don't even open at all throughout school and we find out that this textbook mafia and these privileged textbook publishers are actually able to print even textbooks containing material errors. I suggest that these alterations and additions, which I suggest, we discuss them. We don't have to adopt them in the form in which I propose, but give it at least before the next school year starts, so that at least some of these problems can be solved because Mr. Sarcevic obviously has no intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14820	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill amending the Criminal Code. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14821	You know, I often think about whether it's a shame when my colleagues don't vote for such bill proposals, when they don't vote for criminal acts that don't go out of date to include criminal acts -- baby theft, when they don't vote for what counterpart Bozovic suggested to take away their weapons so that they don't commit more crimes with weapons in the family, etc. Then I hear the deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group laughing at the fact that I don't know 15 or 20 MPs voted for a proposal to take away arms from violent, registered domestic violence. It's a disgrace to Mr. Orlic. It's nothing to laugh about. You shouldn't be proud of it. You should be ashamed of yourself. You should be ashamed that for four years Serbia does not adopt...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14822	Comrade Jerkov, please do not speak to the MPs of the people. If you would like, please explain the draft law to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14823	Please, Mr. Vice President, tell Mr. Orlic it's not funny when he...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14824	I'll tell him. Please continue to explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14825	Please tell Mr. Orlic that there is nothing comical about Serbia being four years late to adopt the Baby Stealing Act, that there is nothing comical about the parents of missing babies, who have experienced the biggest tragedy that could happen to someone, for months they can't get in touch with anyone from the ruling coalition, just because I proposed this law. There's nothing comical about having these people spit in their faces even though they've survived the most possible humiliations in this country that anyone could survive and there's nothing comical about now we're even taking away their time to tell them that their child died, that they can't get the body of a child, that they can't get medical records, that they can't bury their child, that we're now taking away even the right to spend some time getting together, to think about it, to see if there's anything weird about the behavior or the doctor or anyone else and that they have time to file a criminal report, and not when they think something happened then it's too late. I don't know, I don't think anything's funny about that. If anyone's funny, it's an honor, but you should know that even those people who look at this probably and certainly nothing's funny, and that anyone laughing that this law is not going to pass for the 50th time, I really don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14826	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on the Budget System. Does Parliamentwoman Maja Vidinovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we're actually talking about abolishing the so-called. temporary employment bans. In December, I had the opportunity to talk to both the Prime Minister and the Ministers when we talked about the draft budget for 2017 and the accompanying laws, and then, trying to justify this devastating, discriminatory, unfair, unfair measure, which leaves a waste in the institutions and deprives people of the elemental opportunity, I appealed to them, to adopt it and said that if something like that didn't happen, that I would propose amendments to the law first of the next time. Today I urge you, colleagues and colleagues, to face reality, to accept responsibility and to vote in favour of putting on the agenda of this bill. The very execution of this measure and the cynicism itself stems from the very name. This is not about any temporary prohibition of employment, because it extends from year to year, nor is it really about a ban on employment. The only thing worse than the fact that you have a very bad measure is that it doesn't apply to everything equally. Today we are witnesses, all of us here in the O.R., much more important than that, all of us citizens and citizens, that she does not apply to everything. A ban on employment applies to an honest, decent man who has learned and worked hard, who only has the knowledge and desire to stay and work in his country, but does not apply to hundreds and tens of thousands of party activists who are in the 2017 budget on various appraisals, scheduled to be employed by some kind of work contracts. It applies, the ban on employment for a young doctor, for a young scientist, for a young artist, for a young teacher, but the ban on employment does not apply, for example. for Miso Vacic, for a convicted extreme right-handed man. A young and decent man can't get a job, but Misa Vacic can. Well, that's not enough, but the state is making an extra mockery and humiliating its citizens by denying that he's even employed at some kiM office, so that just after a few days, he'll deny and fire a man, in a place where he's not actually employed. This ban applies to the young person who chose, which is the area my colleague Alexandra Jerkov spoke about about the importance of reforming education and what she has been drawing attention to for years. So, a young person has chosen to stay in this country, to learn valuablely, to gain a fair interest that is naturally directed at the state, to work in this country in the field of justice, health, science, art, culture, and the state of Serbia orders, there is no place for you here. You're not allowed to work at all. There are four key problems with this measure. First, there is a huge space for abuses, some commission in Belgrade that has discreetly decided on exceptions, is practically a legal space for corruption, a message for young people is completely devastating. So fiscal consolidation, that's what I said and the finance minister, is not supposed to become some kind of ideology, which is more important than life, and so I ask you, by respecting the time, to vote to put this bill up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14828	Thank you, colleague Vidinović. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. Does the MP Gordana Comic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned, 13 MPs, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14829	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have no need to react, so do you respond to the police in front of the Assembly, to the army in front of the Assembly, to all those people you've forced to protest and strike. Not from some whim, but because you left them without basic, elementary, living conditions. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Police Act is contained in the provision of Article 97 point 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the DS, and I, as the MP of the DS, are now proposing amendments and additions to the Police Act, because life comes first. The state of police is extremely bad, the state of the police is so bad because the SNS has twice honored the reduction of members of the MUP. First, the SNS reduced salaries to 10% and higher to the MUP, and then the SNS honored the same members of the MUP to 150 dinar dinar diaries. A member who has been providing us and our country all day, often risking his life has a 150 dinar daily for which he can't buy an empty muffin or a glass of yogurt. Two key points are in the amendments to the Police Act. The first point is that the ministry must determine the needs of the system, the ministry must have compatibility between the number of members admitted to the MUP system and the number of students receiving it at the Police Academy. We are now going to be hired by some sort of Dijana Hrkalovic, who has not even passed the police station, the Military Academy or the Central Military Police School, and students of young, educated and educated, who finish the Police Academy cannot be employed in the MUP system. That's why the DS is asking that all students who finish the Police Academy be automatically admitted to work at the MUP. The second point is that the provisions of Article 172 point 2 bring down the presumption of innocence, and the DS proposes this amendment and the addition of the Law to delete Article 172 point 2, because we have a situation that against a member of the police who is honest and honest any citizen of Serbia, even some Martinovic, can file a criminal report by that member of the MUP, is automatically away from work until the end of the procedure, which coincides with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We're proposing to delete this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14830	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. There is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14831	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia's honourable citizens, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97 of point 8 and DS, proposing a concrete solution, and this time I ask the MPs of the ruling set not to vote on the bells, but to vote on their conscience, because every day we have 50,000 children who are covered by basic and middle education who do not have lunch. The DS therefore proposes three concrete measures to provide all students whose parents do not work with free transportation from home to school, to provide them with free snack and to provide them with free textbooks, which the SNS has taken away from all those students whose parents do not work. That's not the kind of Serbia the DS wants and what the DS stands for. Unfortunately, every day we have a full newspaper of black chronicles about what's going on in Serbia. We have an example that, unfortunately, the boy from Moll killed himself, that he took his own life because he couldn't get himself a ride from home to school, and before that, he left the third grade of high school in Vienna. That's not funny. We had an example a month ago that a worker in Gosa, in Smederjevska Palanca, took his own life because he had not received a salary for two years. Why? Because he doesn't have health and social security, and that's why he was kicked out of public transport, because he didn't have 200 dinars for a ticket. In such a Serbia, no one wants to live, and that is the kind of Serbia she has done, unfortunately, the SNS. Unfortunately, in 2015, the share of children in Serbia's total population was only 17.3%, and if you don't know how to deal with these problems, why don't you ask. Because in a municipality whose president I was, the municipality paid for free out-of-body insemination to all parents who couldn't have children. Serbia is the leader in the region, as you say from the SNS, but Serbia is a leader in the region at risk of poverty. Serbia is the first country in Europe at the risk of poverty. We can build bridges, we can build roads, but we can't let 50,000 children every day, which are covered by basic and middle education, get hungry, and that's SNS policy and that's what you're complaining about. It's really not for the smile we see today on SNS faces, we know that they're full of pockets, we know that they use official cars, we know that they use fairies, but we have 50,000 children every day hungry and it's a shame and the DS will fight and fight it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14832	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14833	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know why she's nervous at the SNS camp. I think these are extremely important life topics and I think we need a consensus on these issues. As regards the Law on Local Self-Government, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of the DS of this amendment and supplementation, because life comes first. We have a devastating fact and defeating the fact that every year in Serbia, a city the size of Paracina, of 50,000 people, disappears. I think that as responsible and serious people in the Serbian Parliament, we should have a common denominator, a common multiple of what we're going to do with these things. Therefore, the DS proposes to return five billion dinars to local self-government for the start, how much SNS has taken away by reducing local self-government. As you now have learned from the SNS, unlike 20 years ago, that the Berlin Wall has fallen, from us from the DS that they should represent European values, which today only stand for declaratively, and we do not see in concrete examples, the European Charter, which Serbia ratified in 2007, guarantees every local self-government political, administrative and financial independence. No local self-government in Serbia has political or financial independence. In the EU, half of the budget revenues go to the expense of local self-government and half of the government of the country. Unfortunately, in Serbia, this is not the situation, unfortunately, only 10.2% of total budget revenues in Serbia go to the expense of local self-government, municipalities and cities and AP Vojvodina, while other 89.7% of revenues go to the expense of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Since 2012, you have been citizens of Serbia, i.e. The local self-government, municipalities and cities seized 50 billion dinars. If you don't know what to do, you can also learn from the DS, where the government of Vojvodina has led all young couples, while DS led that government, provided 20,000 euros in subsidies to buy a house and garden in the country, in order for people to return, so that our village doesn't die, 50,000 citizens have less in Serbia each year and we have to fight against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14834	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media. Does MP Radoslav Milojic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14835	This law is only worth silently speaking of, about this law all MPs, all 250 should not say a word. The law on public information and the media allowed the candidate of the ruling set to have 93% of media representation during the election campaign. About this law, which I will defend next time, and not now, I can say that we only expect the SNS to appoint Alexander Vulin as director of RTS, i.e. one of Alexander Woolin. It would be the only thing worse informing and media objectivity than it was in this election campaign. I am sure that there is more representation of opposition candidates in North Korea than in Serbia. It's a shame what the media picture is about under pressure from the SNS and the ruling furniture. The SPS colleagues already experienced it in 2000 and they no longer act that way. You SNS need to experience it, to allow the media to inform all citizens objectively, timelyly and accurately. I hope you'll have consciousness, that you won't wait for the push of the button, because you and the SNS will soon be opposition, the DS will send you into opposition, and then you won't be eligible for this kind of media law, but when we come to power, we'll change this embarrassing media law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14836	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Sulkic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia. Does MP Dejan Šulkic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the DS MPs have tabled a bill on military neutrality with a request to be discussed at today's session. The proposal basically defines Serbia as a military neutral country and as such could not be a member of any military alliance, then regulates co-operation with international collective security organisations and possible participation in their activities without membership in those organisations in agreement with the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, regulates participation in UN-sponsored peacekeeping missions, possible participation of the Serbian Army in regional peace missions, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would decide. There is a legal basis for adopting such a law, and there are reasons. The legal basis lies in the constitution that stipulates that the Republic of Serbia ensures independence, sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity, security, regulates the international position of relations with other countries and international organisations. When we proposed this law, we looked into the resolution on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, and by starting with the role of NATO's alliance until then, without a decision of the Security Council, on the one hand, to Annex 11, the rejected Ahtisaari plan, which has been designated by the NATO Alliance as the final authority of the so-called government. An independent hair. So, in such conditions and with such reasons, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has decided on military neutrality until a referendum would be called to decide on such an important issue. When we talk about the reasons for the adoption of such a law, we find ourselves from the current international opportunities and the increased tensions between major forces, where Serbia's military neutrality is seen as strengthening and supporting the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, in the protection of its national interests on the one hand. On the other hand, it is in line with the relationship of the Russian Federation in the Security Council, which provides the foundation and protection of the national interests of the Republic of Serbia. With reasons like this and conditions like this, we believe that military neutrality with declarative form should go into legal form. We think that this would put an end to one within a social big dilemma, and that Serbia would have a clearer position in international frameworks on the issue... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14838	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no one with abstention for—for the 12 messengers of the people, against—there was no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14839	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs, here, continue with the practice that the opposition is proposing laws instead of government. I will re-propose the laws I proposed two days ago before the beginning of the previous session. The first law I propose concerns changes and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government and concerns the functioning of local communities, as the lowest level of government that citizens across Serbia face. The existing Law does not specify where they can be established, nor how they function, or how they are financed, so that their functioning in such a form does not make sense unless it changes, so that I know by which time I propose to amend the Law in the part of the introduction of obligations for local communities in municipalities and cities across Serbia, and on the other hand, that part of the property tax is directly transferred directly to local communities, so that people living there make decisions on priorities, in which money should be invested, or what should be financed. It is not clear to me that the Serbian Progressive Party does not accept this law, even though those across Serbia have the largest number of municipalities and cities in which they are in power, namely local communities, why do these people not help them do something for their place? I propose this for another reason, which is that today, in addition to elections for the President of the Republic, elections for members of the council of the local communities are another democratic election where people are elected by name and last name, and not party members or party representatives. That's why I think they should be respected, because whoever dared to work for his place is willing to do something, if he's already run for office. As far as the Electoral Law is concerned, he is not like that and if he were not nakarad, today we would not have such a situation in parliament, where MPs are not representatives of the people, but are party delegates and serve here only as a voting machine for what their party heads tell them. The moment MPs are elected by name and last name here for this parliament, then they will have an obligation to the citizens, not to the bosses who put them there and will not be able to hide behind any posters of their leaders. So, even though you took 4.8 billion cities and municipalities in Serbia last year, the practice of kidnapping and cities and municipalities and citizens of Serbia and local communities continues, and this bill is exactly one step to change this way of politics and relations towards local self-government in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14840	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no one with abstention for the 15 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14841	Agriculture certainly represents one of the basic branches of the economy in the Republic of Serbia, and I am very sorry that the Serbian Progressive Party, except for the false promises that have been made before each of the 2012 elections, so we have had many because only the elections and the dealings, has done nothing concrete for the farmers of Serbia except to give false hope and false promises. Since 2012, when you published your White Paper in which you said you would increase the agricultural budget by 1% year-on-year, today we have come to the fact that it is below 5%, as it was in 2012, so 4.7% and some percent. It says how sincere you are to the citizens of Serbia, how sincere you are to farmers, because if you were honest and you really wanted to implement the programme, I would be willing to support it, because today you would give farmers from the Serbian budget 10% instead of 4.7 if you had fulfilled what you promised them five years ago. Therefore, the bill refers to an increase in incentives, i.e. the amount of incentives to be given to farmers in the Republic of Serbia, so that they can be employed in agriculture, so that they can function normally and be competitive with farmers from European countries. What is important, and what cannot possibly be understood by the government in Serbia, is that today small agricultural family holdings are the largest employer in the Republic of Serbia. Today, in 638 thousand small agricultural family owners are doing more than a million and a half Serbian citizens, and you should know that when you're making a new budget, if you don't want to vote for this law, you're going to have in mind and give them in the budget as much money as they do, and not just care about how you're going to give money to foreign companies who are going to hire people through the slave system here and who, in your opinion, are supposed to be happy because they have jobs and work for 200 euros in their own country. That you're not interested in agriculture is also the fact of what happened with the most fertile land in Vojvodina. So, three years ago, you gave Al Ravafed 10,400 acres of farmland that you took away from our paors, of which 3.5 thousand lands in Karadjordjevo and with that land we don't know today or who's processing it, or whether the company even exists, and very often we hear how it bothers you to mention the names of the prime minister's brother and other people who may be working the country today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14842	Thank you, colleague Alexic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote for – 14 MPs, against – one, with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14843	Last year you declared the Year of Entrepreneurship and promised private entrepreneurs operating in the Republic of Serbia that it would change around 40 laws, facilitate their business and that they would be equal to foreign companies that you give huge incentives to hire workers. Of all this, nothing happened except that you abused it as another media campaign ahead of the elections, saying you would and how you would take care of entrepreneurial initiatives in Serbia. By who knows what time I propose today a law that should facilitate the business of these businesses in Serbia, which is that all firms who during the calendar year are employed indefinitely, at least two years of new workers, to base their income tax on that amount of paid earnings and contributions are refused. The second part of the proposal under the same law is that in those underdeveloped economic areas of the Republic of Serbia, profit tax is not charged to newly established private enterprises for a minimum of three years. You really don't want to put it on the agenda and thus show how much your real concern for Serbia's economy is, but on the other hand, you don't miss the chance to race which foreign companies you're going to give thousands of euros, they've already become tens of thousands, not tens of thousands of euros, that get foreign companies that ultimately carry their profits out of the state of Serbia. So, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill, to put this law on the agenda, if you really want to change the trend, and the trend is to shut down six of the ten newly founded companies in Serbia. Of the 300,000 entrepreneurs, as far as they do business in Serbia today, only about 30 per cent of gross social product is created by those who are somewhere in half of what private entrepreneurs create in developed EU countries. So, they lack neither entrepreneurial initiatives nor knowledge nor knowledge nor knowledge of technology nor markets, they lack only one legislative framework that will allow them to develop their production, not that they are there for the tax and other inspection services to come to them and to charge fines for everything and anything, without any prevention, warning or anything. Unlike foreign companies in which inspections are almost not coming, ours are exposed to one incredible torture, and that's usually when it's necessary to fill a hole in the budget so that you can boast in front of the IMF that you have a surplus, that you have this kind of money or so much money. You take from the citizens, you take from the businessmen of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14844	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14845	Thank you, Chairman. This is one of the laws that I believe should first come to the agenda, especially as regards young people in Serbia, students, our talented children and good students who achieve the above-average results and who this country should grant and create conditions for normal scholarship and allow cities and municipalities to do so without breaking the law. So my proposal is just to comply with two laws, the Law on student and student standards with the Law on Local Self-Government. This alignment would allow the mayors and the presidents of the municipalities to scholarship their students, not fearing whether they will receive DRI or any other control or administrative inspection and punish them for it. I don't understand why you're doing this, because today you have power in the largest number of cities and municipalities across Serbia, and you would show that you really care about students, students, but that you care about their parents who live, unfortunately, in the misery of Serbia that you don't see, that you ignore, and that they barely make ends meet and that they hardly provide funding for their talented children. Unfortunately, you show concern for these young people, and therefore we have a trend that tens of thousands of young people want to leave Serbia every year. This trend continued this year and last year, and it will continue and continue because you are talking to young people by chasing them and chasing them through protests, photographing them and targeting them by saying that they have no right to seek a regulated system and that they do not have the right to seek to live in a normal and orderly state. A normal and orderly state does not suit you, because you are the best functioning in this anarchy that exists today in Serbia, where there are idols that should govern the lives of all of us, and there is no system and there are no laws, there is no rule of law. Finally, the fact that you do not want to put this law on the agenda that it is not to be discussed and to explain to me, because I am one of the 250 MPs in this room, but you owe an explanation to students and students above average, you owe to their parents. You also owe them an explanation of how that, after completing state studies with serious averages, there is no place to work in Serbia, but therefore there is room for Misa Vacic, there is room for drivers and waiters in the seats of state secretaries, even ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a message that you send to young people, besides not wanting to discuss such legal proposals that should systematically solve some problems. So I'm asking you to put it on the agenda if you're not uncomfortable with me suggesting it, here's another one.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14846	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstentions for – 13, against – 13. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14847	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members, I believe that some of you, if you have listened to the proposals I make in this term at the beginning of each session of the regular session for the amendment and addition of the agenda, know what this law is about. Of course, every time you refuse to put this item on the agenda, but I think it is my duty to propose, in the three minutes I have according to the Rules of Procedure, that we are not all the same and that we are concerned by the problems of citizens, but that we have solutions for these specific problems, not just an empty story that we have from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So does this law. The proposal says that income tax is reduced from 10% to 9%. It is a minimum reduction, but should be the beginning of tax and contribution disbursement paid to employees' salaries in the Republic of Serbia. This discharge is something that has been announced all five years as far as this government manages the lives of all Serbian citizens. So far, absolutely nothing has been done, and that tax has not changed for any single prominence. Despite announcements that this would happen, every year several times, whenever we had some reconstruction or new elections, the new ministers, ministers and prime ministers, one, the second, third, talked in their exposés about moving forward with tax discharges and salary contributions. That's never happened before. We propose this reduction for reasons because amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government are part of the funds that remain with local self-government tax, the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget has been increased by about five billion and this reduction is precisely somewhere in that amount. First of all, it should dissipate the economy, the ones that make extra value, the ones that hire people. This would allow them new investments, perhaps a minimum wage increase, but would show a trend that would change the trend that Serbia is only competitive in Europe compared to our neighbours are low incomes, net employee incomes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14848	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14849	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow MPs, previous law and these two laws and this other law, the solutions in them are mutually conditioned and linked. If we were lucky to discuss them, we could agree with the Rules of Procedure and unite the debate, not the contrary to the Rules of Procedure, as happens at each session of the National Assembly. Again, funding of local self-government, the Law that we changed in October of the month, then here it is said that local self-government does not need about five, six billion dinars, how much they received from the income tax that remained on local self-government and then decreased by 80% and 70%, respectively, in the case of the city of Belgrade, by four and six percent, respectively. The amount was put into Serbia's budget, which, according to all the announcements and stories and then and for the last two years, is constantly in plus, until the last day of the year, and then every year we end up with a certain deficit. If the budget is already in plus and there is more money, we suggest that this reduction is analized by returning the amount to local self-government to what percentage it was, and that the tax rate is total, that is, the previous law, instead of the 10% burden on 9%. The final effect on the budgets of local self-government would be zero, or there would be no change, they would work with those budgets that, as the local self-government minister and finance minister explained to us in October, with full heart and satisfaction, accepted a reduction from the five billion dinars. So, they would remain the same, but they would create an opportunity in the Republic of Serbia's budget to reduce, I repeat, the profit burden, to reduce the income tax from 10% to 9%, which would allow the economy and give a small minimum but positive signal in which Serbia wants to go further, wants to change that poor picture where Serbia's only competitive advantage over other countries is cheap labour. That's not hiding anymore. The Prime Minister was leaving saying that he was happy to hear that the government of the Republic of Romania is increasing its country's minimum earnings because then Serbian workers will be even more miserable than Romanian workers, so that we will have more investment. We think it's a bad policy and that this is one way to change that bad policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14850	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Excise Act. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14851	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow MPs, this is also a law that directly concerns citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We got the idea by reading a report from the World Health Organization that declared the epidemic of obesity at the world level. According to world standards, the number of overweight children has increased from 2.6% to 4.9% in the world, and this was one of the basic reasons for declaring this epidemic, and as one of the measures proposed by the World Health Organization to all governments is the introduction of a special tax burden, i.e. excise on sweetened drinks. Unfortunately, the situation in Serbia is more dramatic than these numbers. I found a few texts. It says – the frequency of obesity in children in Serbia has increased five times. He says that every fourth student is overweight, one text, the second text says that every fifth student in Serbia is overweight. Anyway, these numbers are dramatic. I think it is necessary for the state of Serbia to react, react in the way that many governments in the EU and the world reacted, and in Mexico where the tax burden was introduced since 10% in 2013, in Hungary where it was introduced in 2011, which was, among other things, the effect that 20% decreased consumption of artificially sweetened drinks, and that more than 25% increased consumption of natural fruit juices. The second idea of this law is not that this means, and it is also, at some rough estimate, about about five billion dinars a year, not that it serves only to fill the budget and create a false picture of the alleged surplus in the Serbian state budget. Our idea is to use these resources to educate young people about the harmfulness of fast food, poor nutrition, the use of these drinks, and to allow children to have at least one healthy meal a day where possible. When you say "we don't have the money", this is a way to reach those pairs, but unfortunately the government refuses. Although the minister said he had nothing against in principle, he did not accept this initiative, and he probably did not accept it because he was an honorary guest in a report on the "Coca-cola" business in the Republic of Serbia, where he joined the praises and praises of this international company for their results in Serbia, which are not controversial, but unfortunately have negative consequences for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14852	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade in the part of the city known as Savamal on 25 April 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14853	Thank you, Chairman. In three days, it will be exactly a year after the illegal destruction of the three principals, as the Prime Minister likes to say, at the Savamal settlement in Belgrade. Since 6 June, when I, on behalf of the SDS parliamentary group, and then Mr Balša Bozovic, on behalf of the DS parliamentary group, asked for the establishment of a survey committee to examine everything that was going on and how the state authorities have acted now, all these years, we have no response from any state authority. In my opinion, the least of the problems is the illegal destruction of three objects, three constituencies that have uglyed the city's appearance, as it is said, so I guess that should be enough to explain why someone's private property was illegally destroyed. A much bigger problem is what we want to come through the work of this polling committee, the answer to the question – who suspended the state of Serbia for those few hours? The state, by the definition of Max Webber, is the only one with a monopoly on physical force. Someone decided that the monopoly over the physical force would take away the state of Serbia and the authority responsible for implementing this force, the Ministry of Interior, and assign a group of people with phantoms, who had been deprived of the illegal freedom of citizens of the Republic of Serbia for several hours in Belgrade that night, took away their property, and in all that time those who managed to escape from that gang under phantoms and invited the Ministry of Interior to react, there someone was ordered not to forward these calls and that the interior ministry was not responding. We are looking for an answer to the question – who is it from the state summit that ordered the suspension of the state of the Republic of Serbia for the next few hours? Not because we can correct what was done that night, but so that it would never happen again, so that those responsible would end up in prison, and those who have kept quiet about it all this time and turned their heads to learn a lesson that it should no longer be done. Since I know you're not going to put this on the agenda today, I'm going to invite the citizens to come on the 25th at 6:00 p.m. on Herzegovica Street in Belgrade and protest everything the state has done to cover this up in the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14854	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 11 against – one that is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14855	Thank you. Since the start of this term, we have asked for a draft of this law at each regular session. Unfortunately, not once, of course, has he received, as no proposal comes from MPs from the opposition's ranks has received support and been put on the agenda. The government's reason for not accepting this law is not to offer solutions, but to the fact that the government is preparing its proposal. How's he doing? In September 2014, the government decided to form a working group for more than two and a half years. After six months, this task force is formed. She does something and then as she says one election is coming, so a new government is forming, so a new working group is forming, and now other elections have come and now we will have a new government again and a postponement of the adoption of this law. What's going on at that time? What happens to the lives of Serbian citizens and children in Serbia? One quarter of Serbia's citizens live at risk of poverty. What does that mean in translation? This means families have 60% of the average media total earnings paid in the Republic of Serbia, which means they live with 20,000 dinars per month, the entire family. Children living in such families are every third child in Serbia. And do we have this luxury of waiting three years for the government working group to come up with some solution, to change the situation, that only 25% of children were covered by this law, and that estimate in 2000 was 50%. Are we gonna do something or are we gonna wait for the government's task force? I have to say, here's those who say I should wait, life doesn't wait. Unfortunately, we read today that one life, or two lives, were lost because people had no electricity, they were cut off by electricity a month ago, and then they hooked up with some wire that killed them last night. And are we going to do something or are we going to wait for life in Serbia to disappear and then react? This is where I heard him say the other day – more evicted people in 2012 than today. That's a lie. Twice as many people moved out of Serbia in 2015, than was the case in 2007, 2008, 2009. Unfortunately, we have to do something here, too. We're all responsible for this, most of you are responsible for the inaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14856	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14857	I talked about the importance of culture for the development of a society every time I tried to put this bill on the agenda and get your support, and none of it worked. I used quotes and Churchill, hoping that he was respected by the largest party as a thinker and about how he treated and talked about the importance of culture, about what the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, said that democracy without culture and media is becoming a dictatorship, and therefore, it seems to me, was best written by what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live in today. This is also recognized by these people who have been protesting the streets of the cities of the Republic of Serbia for more than two weeks, looking for culture, not dictatorship. We here ignoring their demands and ignoring this bill, I fear we are also ignoring the future of the Republic of Serbia, because without culture, without the inspiration of people there is no state, there are no citizens and all that this government does is afraid to have tragic consequences unless it changes. Our obligation here as an opposition MP is here to criticise this government and such a policy but also to offer concrete solutions. And I don't accept criticism that we're all the same and that we don't have a solution. Here's a solution. A decision in a law that needs to change the bad solutions to the Law on Culture that was introduced more than a year ago. It is specifically about receiving the national recognition provided for by this law as an option based on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not as a legal obligation, as is the case in the athletes who win, to win the medal in the most important world and European competitions. We believe that the same relationship with those cultural workers who win the highest international recognitions and that it should not be left to a government decision that may or may not have to because it respects a regulation or regulation, so it says it has no means or that it cannot implement. That it should be a legal obligation, that automatically all those cultural workers who gain the highest recognition, get the right to a national pension the moment the conditions are obtained. I'm sorry if you don't accept this proposal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14858	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there was no one with abstention who voted for it. There was no one against 15 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the public sector pay system. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14859	We tabled this bill in this mandate, given that some other proposals were submitted during the previous term of office for the first time by the National Assembly, and they were a reaction to the bad law passed in February, it seems to me, in March of last year, which was made by the IMF, which put at risk the economic situation of public administration employees, which, unfortunately, led to the departure of the best public administration personnel, who left the outstanding problem of unequal salaries in the public sector because of leaving out public enterprises from the definition of the public sector, the NBS, the Public Media Service. That's exactly what they are, and I repeat it every time, where there is the biggest difference in employee earnings compared to public sector earnings compared to jobs that work. So, for the same job they pay in some public enterprises, and certainly in the NBS, or in the Public Media Service, they are several times higher than the salaries for the same job that they do in the state administration or in other parts of the public sector as defined by this law. 'We think it should change. When it comes to changing the solutions that will and must be speeded up in the ultimate line of law-making that follows this law. This law was to be followed by the Platinum Law, which was to be adopted by the end of 2016 in the Assembly. Well, then I don't know whose responsibility that law wasn't passed. Well, its adoption has been extended for the whole of 2017. And we see that parliament will not work practically the whole half, the first half of 2017. That is why I think it would be responsible for the ruling majority's MPs to put this bill on the agenda. Accept the solutions you agree with. Please adopt some other solutions and delete those solutions that you disagree with, but let's not let this parliament fail and deal with those laws that directly concern the lives of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14860	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there was no one who was abstentioned, 12 MPs, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14861	We first passed this law a year and a half ago, back in the last term. It's very short. It predicts applying to baby food a reduced tax rate of 10%, instead of a tax rate of 20%, as provided for in the law. For that year and a half, not because this law was on the agenda, but because every time the government proposed its amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, we put amendments which are the essence of this law and we did not come across an understanding of the government. The reasons for refusal were, in my opinion, irresponsible and irresponsible, from the need for a large administration of the tax administration to apply this law, which is a notorious lie, especially in view of the way the Tax Administration is working, which for two years could not issue tax solutions to the pausing bonds, and then gave them solutions within two years with a period of 15 days to pay them, thereby jeopardising the business of a large number of small businesses paying a flat tax, not guaranteeing that this measure would result in a reduction in retail prices, and that the government would then explain the reduction of tax rates in some other cases, saying that, of course, this would lead to a reduction of retail prices and would make it easier for citizens to live. Why is there any doubt that this will not happen, and in other cases this doubt does not exist? I think this avoidance by the government is irresponsible to deal with the problem, with the problem of the difficult material situation of families in Serbia, families with children, which is, in my opinion, the main reason for the negative growth that has been in place in the Republic of Serbia for years and is challenging the economic, social and any other survival of the Serbian state for 40-50 years or more. Of course this law can't change it, and this little change can change it, but it can be one start, and I ask you not to wait any longer for the government and its initiatives, because in that waiting period it's been three years now, but to do something today, to put this point of the agenda, to adopt, this is a small, minimal change, but we send a signal to the government that we are here ready to talk about the real and real burning problems of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14862	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the points of the draft law. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14863	The bill, to be honest, has nothing to do with the lives of Serbian citizens. It concerns the way this Parliament is to work and to regulate its legislative work, but it is directly related, because if we adopt this law, we would have proposed legislation on the agenda in a very small number of those who arrive after an emergency procedure and are adopted without public hearings, without the widest public being familiar with the legal solutions, thus avoiding a bad practice which, overnight, has brought about such adoption of the law. This practice is that we have had several times in the same year the adoption of amendments and additions of one and the same laws, because certain legal solutions have proved to be wrong, that not all situations have been foreseen and that changes of the law are needed. On the other hand, the adoption of this law would also allow proposals for legislation proposed by someone other than the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come on the agenda, or possibly when we want to play a little parliamentaryism by some member of the ruling majority to propose a certain law. No single proposal came from the opposition MPs in the last five years has been put on the agenda, and there has been an opportunity and there has been absolutely certain need, especially in the situation where we in Parliament in 2017 have three working days in the four months and rightly have the anger of citizens who say what you are doing there, which is why you receive salaries if you do not work, if you do not sit down, you do not discuss the laws. In 2017, the Government did not propose any single law. And even if by emergency procedure, they suggested some law to come here, but no. Legislative work appears to be suspended in this country in 2017. The only ones working on it are MPs of the opposition. Today you could hear more than 50 draft laws that opposition MPs tried to put on the agenda of this assembly, to discuss citizens' problems, concrete solutions to these problems. Maybe they're not the best, but you can do better. Get involved, colleagues from the government. Don't just wait for the government, because obviously that government doesn't have any idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14864	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14865	The first time we proposed this law was after a year of application of this law, when the government and the competent ministers and prime ministers started talking, about how great the situation in the Republic of Serbia's budget has been and we've been listening to this story for a year and a half, but unfortunately, the initiative to adopt the Law on the termination of the law on the temporary way of regulating pension payments cannot come on the agenda. It was proposed by the SDS parliamentary group, proposed by MP group DS and counterpart Balša Bozovic, the Dveri parliamentary group, counterpart Bosko Obradovic, but no answer. There's no answer. If the situation in the budget is so good, why not apply the keyword of this law "temporary" editing? Temporarily, it's armed with some kind of hand. In a bill that came to this Assembly in October 2014, the deadline was three years. At that time, the amendment, adopted by the government, deleted the deadline and was said to have been deleted because the government would work better and within a shorter period of time conditions would be created to break the application of this law. What's the situation after two and a half years? This should temporarily change into permanent. I think it would be fairer than the government and the ruling majority to change the name of this law and to be a law on the permanent arrangement of pension payments, because it is obviously the intention of this authority to apply this law until it is brought down by some court. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is obviously not a place, but, fortunately, because of everything we did from 2000 to 2012, there is a higher court, a court in Strasbourg that citizens of Serbia can address. I am sure that when the initiative comes to assess the legality of this law before that court, the decision will be that this law is unconstitutional and bad and that its fact will be annulled. But it will then have a great cost to the government, and it is obvious that those who are in government today think it is none of their business, because they know that they will not be in the Government of the Republic of Serbia at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14866	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - draft law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14867	The Law on Public Media Services, when it was issued, envisioned payment of the tax, contrary to the 2012 promise by Alexander Vukic that the TV tax, or subscription, would be abolished. On the contrary, she was restored to law and has now become mandatory. No single citizen of Serbia can not pay for it. He can only not pay for electricity, delivered, but then he's in danger of losing that power. Unfortunately, we can see the consequences of that. What we are looking for in this law is not the abolition of the tax, but the possibility that citizens, because of the fact that they have multiple electrical numbers on their behalf, can be freed, not that they have to fall under certain social categories that the law has provided for the release, or procedure with, I don't know, two witnesses, proof and other things, that it's complicated to release TV fees in cases where you have multiple counts. The essence of the law is that a citizen of Serbia pays, if he has to pay that tax already, and we are not apores against paying a fee, we primarily have a problem with the work of the Public Media Service, as such, which does not meet its legal obligation. The proposal of the essence of this law is a release in cases where you have multiple electrical numbers. In rural households, there are cases that you have one number for the garage, one number for the auxiliary facility, so every electric number, every citizen has to pay a fee. We find that unequal. It is absolutely certain that the debate on this amendment and on any amendments to the Law on Public Media Services, of course, deserves part of the state story of the Public Media Service, about what kind of picture Serbia is, and what the reputation of Serbia is today in the world. In the World magazine "Economist", you had a picture of the countries where media freedom is most at stake, and Serbia has also found itself next to the Philippines, Turkey, Venezuela, Poland, Russia and Bolivia. This is the reputation Serbia has in the world today. Fortunately, there is a Centre for Investigative Reporting of Serbia, which received the European institutions of young people who work there and fight...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14868	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14869	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, reading this proposal, which in previous sessions, i.e. when the agenda was tried to be put on the agenda, seems to me that these changes are now benign compared to what has been happening in the last weeks, two or a month or more days. The amendments I propose concern Article 5 and concern the fascist relationship with members of any nation and national minority, church or religious community. What I initially suggested was that Fascism should be sanctioned by law and according to LGBT members. However, I think that, and that is my deep fear, in the past week, and in this high house, a pure fascism has begun, given that I have recognized the very direct establishment of a new race.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14870	MPs, let's agree to be polite, to respect the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to respect all MPs and not to use such qualifications for the parliament of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14871	Fascism and fascism are serious topics. I think parliament is exactly the place to talk about it, not to promote fascism. If you'll excuse me, to explain why I put it like that, I'd be happy to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14872	Parliament does not promote fascism. It's very ugly that you're trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14873	I'm talking about the law. I ask you to read the title of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14874	I know, but I also know what you said and your distinguished fellow MPs in this House are very concerned about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14875	This is not the Law on Games of Happiness, but the Law on the Prohibition of Highlighting of Symbols and the Organization of Fascist and Neo-Nazi manifestations. So I can't talk in a different way than about phenomena that are symptomatic. Let me finish, and you'll find I'm deeply right. So, ten days ago in this high house, I thought the mistake in the middle, when the first among the equals within the leading and largest ruling parliamentary groups practically introduced a new category into this home, perhaps even a new race, and these are the children of our fellow Members of Parliament and children journalists. (Serb Progressive Party emissaries scold. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14876	The emissary insults the other MPs. I can't let that happen. This isn't going anywhere, it's not going in the right direction. Thank you for coming to the session today. This is going in a very bad direction. (Marinika Tepic: May I continue? I'd like to ask you nicely. We have very important laws on the agenda today. Don't make scandals.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14877	You gave me my time back at the beginning. Thank you. So, I'm talking very specifically about this law, calling at the same time that everyone else understands how serious the subject is and that by introducing new categories of people and new categories, according to me, race, especially in this high house, and even yesterday during the regular session, they finally realize that this must not be done, whether this regime is established by law or not. What concerns me further is your procedure, the president of the National Assembly, which is that today, as far as I'm concerned, which is also a kind of fascia, forbid... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14878	Thank you. I do not allow such insults on behalf of the entire parliament of the Republic of Serbia. This is scandalous. This is for every condemnation of both the public and the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask all honourable MPs, all of the heads of Parliament to respond to such an inappropriate dictionary. (Marinika Tepic: Can I continue? No, you can't go on, really. Under full responsibility, I do not allow you to continue. Change me, burn me, shove me on a stake, that's what you've all proposed together through the social network, but let me talk about fascism in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia I don't allow. You know what you're saying and what you say, you're a full-time person. I do not allow you to speak to respected colleagues and the public in Serbia at all. If I'm wrong, I'm here for all the criticism, for the shift, for everyone, but there really is some limit that a man, not the President of Parliament, can't go through. I've got a red line, I don't allow that kind of behavior, change me, my God. My God, I will remain remembered in this House's history that I have not allowed the appearances of fascism in our Parliament to be spoken of. (Marinika Tepic: This is the law that is... I understood all of you, because the other day I said I was a person who didn't buckle on his back. It's an old expression. In Vojvodina, it has often been used for those who do not know what it is for certain reasons. I know very well what this is about, and I've listened to the lies that you've brought before me. It's your right, but it can't be here. No, I'm sorry. I am putting the bill to the vote, not what is said, to be understood, about amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting the manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and features, since it was filed on 25 October 2016, you are certainly familiar with the content, but not this spoken. Finalising vote and declaring: for – 13... (Vladimir Djukanovic throws.) Let me finish. Please, MP, respect both me and Parliament. Who can't listen let him rest for a while. I also ask Bozovic not to participate in this. (Vladimir Djukanovic throws.) Please, MP Djukanovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – eight abstentions – there are no, 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly did not accept that this bill should be placed on the agenda of today's session. I ask you to establish the quorum and see first how many MPs attend this session at this time. There are 136 MPs present in the hall. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a joint review of the proposal for a law on biomedically assisted fertilisation and a proposal for a law on transfusion medicine. Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want to explain this proposal? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 11 abstentions – no, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of the debate, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – four abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by 14 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health - Berislav Vekić, Vladimir Djukić, Vicko Ferenc and Meho Mahmutović, Nada Mladenovic and Zlata Žizic from the Department of Biomedicine of the Ministry of Health, as well as Marko Pavlovic, a co-worker at the Ministry of Health. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the proposal for a law on biomedically assisted fertilisation and a proposal for a law on transfusion medicine. Before I give the word to the Minister of Health, here you go, Ambassador Giursic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14879	Thank you, Your Honor. In accordance with Article 294. The Rules of Procedure, which speak of order in the Old MUP Assembly building in accordance with the law and the Internal Order Decision, and to be concerned about the implementation of this order by the President of the Assembly and the Secretary, I would like to ask you – on what basis, is there also why special security measures are being carried out in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, as this decision on the internal order says, because these are the conditions when it is prohibited for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to enter parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14880	Ambassador, you're not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14881	I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14882	The breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to the conduct of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14883	The Rules of Procedure have been hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14884	If you have any questions for me, please Tuesday morning. I'll be right there, and you'll ask me a question. (Marko Djurisic: The Rules of Procedure have been injured because you do not allow parliament to work. As I see it, MPs are working. Thank you very much. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not gonna take two minutes away from you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure must be done directly and must relate to the work of parliament in the tide, not beyond that. Everything else you have either orally with me in the cabinet or in writing or on Tuesday. I don't know why you got up. I didn't give you my word. (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14885	Mr. President, I believe you just injured article 107. The Rules of Procedure, in response to the way you responded to your colleagues, Mark Djurisic, or refusing to answer a very important question – which is why today is your decision, e-mail... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14886	I don't send e-mails, by the way. Therefore, do not carry out the intention you have planned long before you make this Parliament a home of democracy and a place where laws are discussed. Since you don't belong to any of the MPs' groups, I don't think you've even signed up for the discussion, I can't take two minutes away from you, and I'm not going to enforce any other sanctions. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14887	I thank you, President of the Assembly. Advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure – Article 103. The MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the Rules of Procedure when you, as chairman, or speaker of the Assembly, have done what Marko Djurisic, a colleague, has done. I don't see why you interrupted him when, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he reacted not to why it was forbidden for citizens to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14888	Citizens in this assembly can enter under the condition that they report that they wish to attend parliament's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14889	It's strictly forbidden today, and I'm curious as to why.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14890	Thank you very much. Questions Tuesday in writing or oral with me in my office.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14891	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14892	This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, since nothing in the tide was done or done directly... Don't make a show. At every beginning of Parliament, when we try to work and devote ourselves to what we have come for and why we are chosen. Themes for cheap newspapers and front pages really aren't my cup of tea and I can't let you be an accomplice in that attempt to dissipate parliament's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14893	This is the citizens' parliament, not the Serbian Progressive Parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14894	Absolutely. Yeah, but it's not your party or your presidential candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14895	Of course. I wanted to say that Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14896	Please, I forgot to congratulate you today at the beginning, for the amount of work I have for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to elect President Alexander Vukic as president. I think it was a fundamental order from me as President of Parliament, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14897	There's nothing to be congratulated about. There's nothing decent about it. Congratulations on winning. If there was anything decent, someone would congratulate, and like this... (Radoslav Milojic: Get up a bit. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14898	Thank you very much. Since I opened the debate, I give my word to the president of the motionary Dr Zlatibor Loncar, Minister of Health, to explain the bill's proposals. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14899	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I will first discuss the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination Procedures. The area of biomedically assisted fertilisation has so far been governed by the Law on the Treatment of Infertility by Biomedical Supported Insemination Procedures, as well as by sublegal acts adopted under that Act, which have not been sufficiently precise, or have misdefined the conditions, organisation, activity, biomedically assisted fertilisation, as well as the supervision of the implementation of this action, which has led to this area in the territory of the Republic of Serbia not being regulated in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice, as well as EU regulations. A poor long-term practice has been observed in health institutions to carry out biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures, but without defining the conditions at national level, where any health care institution carrying out biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures has defined and the conditions, adapting them to itself, directly affecting inequality in the field of biomedical assisted fertilisation, which is contrary to the tendency and the need to establish uniform rules in this area in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The out-of-body fertilization is free of charge according to current solutions only for infertile couples that meet a series of conditions, in a limited number of attempts. We believe that biomedically assisted fertilisation must be as accessible as possible, although it cannot be crucial, in the fight for the country's demographic recovery. Our intention was to define the level of validity and availability of health services, the preservation of fertility and the treatment of infertility, through biomedically assisted fertilisation, or BMPO, as I will continue to read. Also, this is a step towards harmonising with European regulations and recommendations for working with human cells and tissues, and biomedically assisted fertilisation, is such a social, scientific and legally complex area, that it had to be governed by a special law. Therefore, the parameters are precisely defined in the procedure of obtaining, processing, testing and distribution of reproductive cells, their extended storage, the rule of their import or export, the control measures, inspections in centres dealing with assisted fertilisation. The provisions of this legal act shall apply to spouses or non-marriage spouses, women without partners or individuals who keep their sex cells for future assisted fertilisation. The law lays down rules of work for both state and private clinics, so-called BMPO centres, banks of donated reproductive cells and embryos, biomedicine and inspection services. Biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures rely on complex technology, requiring special equipment of the centre, high training and skills of clinicians, embryologists and other accompanying staff, as well as continuous supervision to reach the desired parenting. The main objective of the new law is to increase the number of procedures carried out and increase the percentage of the performance of the procedures carried out, and it is primarily achieved through a clear division of authorised health institutions in this area, prescribing the conditions to be met by each of them. The new law first established who can carry out this activity and made a clear distinction between the BMPO centre that it included, in addition to health institutions, and private practice, because due to the increased incidence of infertility in our country in recent years and the need to include as many couples as possible in the process, indicated the need to make this type of service more accessible to the number of pairs and banks of reproductive tissue and embryos, which are carrying out the least effective treatment, preservation, storage and distribution of reproductive cells and tissues for heterologous fertilisation, as well as storage and distribution of embryos for heterologous fertilisation, which was not the case in the current law. It is also precisely defined as the activity of BMPO, as well as the procedures carried out within them, in order to ensure that the way, procedure and conditions for carrying out the work of testing, obtaining the processing, preservation, storage, reproductive distribution of tissue and embryo reproductive cells, such as imports and exports of reproductive cells, are carried out by means of sublegal acts. Through a clear definition of activity, as well as ways, procedures and conditions for performing the same thing, we get in the Republic of Serbia a health care system in which all health services, which want to perform some of the defined activities, must first meet the same conditions, have the same equipment as the same when, which has not been the case so far. Under the existing law, private practice is not an exercise of activity, as the legislator estimated that this is a high-level and sophisticated health work that can only be carried out at the level of territorial health. The new law adopted the view that, under the same conditions, space, equipment, where this health care activity can also be carried out in private practice, as is common in the countries of the European Union. Expansion of the circle of persons who can participate in the procedure, in addition to spouses, out-of-marriage partners, as well as women who meet the requirements laid down by law, has also extended the new law of the person who can participate in the procedure, establishing the right to conduct in a homologous, fertilising business capable woman, i.e. a man, who has delayed the use of their reproductive cells due to the possibility of reducing or losing reproductive function, thus creating the possibility that citizens for medical reasons can freeze their reproductive cells and exploit them later. This will enable even the above mentioned ones to be accomplished in the role of parents. In addition to those mentioned, the right to store reproductive cells, or tissues, have minors who are at risk of being permanently infertile for medical reasons. This legal solution is due to an increase in the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are not recognised in the existing law, which because of the health problem they were unable to preserve their reproductive cells, thus being medically, unjustly, directly deprived of the role of parents. In our country, in recent years, there has been a need to make this type of service as accessible as possible, as many citizens as possible, to individuals and couples, and because of the increasing frequency of infertility in the people, the growing need for the preservation of fertility, primarily the sick, due to the unsolicited or present disposal of parenthood for later years, an increasing number of couples have a reduced chance of natural conception. Also, by citing the cryo conservation, as well as the component of the BMPO activity, this bill ensures greater availability of this type of service, at least in the context of the procedure covered by the RFO and strategically and at a wider social level. Namely, with several repetitive embryotraspheres, embryos preserved from previous procedures through cryo-preservation, significantly increase cumulative pregnancy rates, thereby significantly undermining part of the infertility treatment process. It also creates the possibility of discharge from fear, of failure, and couples can be defined for the return of a smaller number of embryos in the first fresh embryo procedure and any subsequent process with dissolved embryos. Finally, such a strategy directly reduces the rate of twin pregnancy, which carries an increased risk to the mother and the foetus, and further relieves the health system, as the cost of treatment disappears from these risks, as well as complications from premature births and so forth. The possibility of giving embryos, spouses, out-of-marriage partners, a new legal solution has the possibility to donate their embryos that have been created for their fertilisation, of which they have given up with the mandatory implementation of a clear procedure, which implies the consent of both spouses, or extramarital partners to donate embryos, as well as legal and psycho-social counselling. Since the BMPO procedure is very expensive for the community, and for the state, the proposed legal solution will directly reduce the costs of the procedure, since in those situations costs are not paid for expensively stimulated, the process of aspiration and laboratory costs of the processing of reproductive cells and embryos is avoided. The possibility of conducting a procedure with donated reproductive cells, the existing law has contributed to the decision not to perform BMPO procedures in the Republic of Serbia with donated reproductive cells, although it has allowed the carrying out of the procedure with those reproductive cells. The new law has clearly defined the bank, detailing which health care institution can carry out bank operations, reproductive cells and tissues, and which are the jobs it performs, which also allowed imports, or exports under controlled conditions, to prescribe clear and strict rules in order to establish a quality system in the BMPO area in our country, thus creating conditions for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be able to give their reproductive cells, and that they can participate in the BMPO procedure with donated reproductive cells on clearly predetermined criteria. It is important to stress that the donation of reproductive cells or embryos is a voluntary and selfless act, that reproductive cells and embryos are not paid. The donation of embryo cells is possible in addition to a strict legal ethical medical framework, with a thorough examination of the donor and an additional one donor can give his cells to only one pair, i.e. the female recipient. This rule has been introduced because of the great possibility of meeting and crossing in relation to half-brothers and sisters in a large number of inhabitants. In the areas of BMPO, the current law has in a vague way regulated inspection and due to these inaccuracies, inaccuracies and indeterminates about the conduct of inspection controls, there has been a very often in practice a vague picture of where the inspection was to be formed, in whose composition and who may be the inspector. The new law has provided continuous expert supervision in biomedicine, which is specific due to the daily introduction of new methods and procedures of work, and imposes the need for supervision by experts with the greatest experience in practice that monitors the contemporary achievements of science in this area. In addition to an appropriate training inspection which carries out inspection on a continuous basis at least once every two years, the law has introduced changes as regards the period of validity of the work permit. In the current law for every five years, the institution that received the permit was to renew the same with the re-proceeding procedure relating to the application of the same documentation and payment of the fee. The new law introduces the duration of the permit indefinitely, with the possibility of withdrawing it in the case of the prescribed law, which reduces the costs of health institutions, but at the same time maintains their quality of services, which carry out the work of BMPO, because private health institutions must continuously meet the prescribed conditions of the quality system, because otherwise the law prescribes them to withdraw work permits. The ban on surrogate motherhood. As before, the new law prohibits surrogate motherhood, i.e. as defined – it is prohibited to include a woman who intends after birth to give a child to a third party or without paying any compensation, i.e. to achieve any material or immaterial benefit, as well as to offer services to a surrogate by a woman or any other person with or without paying any compensation, i.e. to achieve other material or immaterial benefit. During a very thorough and reasoned analysis, it remained in the view that surrogate motherhood remains banned in the Republic of Serbia primarily because of the possibility of abuse of law on women allowed for surrogate motherhood, which suggests the conclusion that there is obvious commercialisation. In addition, in 2015, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution condemning the practice of surrogate motherhood in all its forms, thus introducing even the opposite of current European norms. As the existing law is partly in line with EU directives and the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to fully comply with EU directives, the new law has received a positive opinion from the European Commission and is fully in line with EU directives. Proposal for a law on transfusion medicine. The area of transfusiological activity has so far been established by the Transfusion Action Act "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No 72/09, as well as by sublegal acts adopted under the law. This law is partly in line with the European legislation on this area that was in force during its adoption. After a six-year period of application of this law, the need to improve, specify the existing conditions, organisations and activities of transfusion medicine, as well as the supervision of transfusion medicine carried out in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with a view to ensuring quality and safety of blood and blood components. The proposed law on tranfusion medicine should regulate and even the organisation of blood collection. The main news is that instead of the previous 47 hospital blood banks of transfusiological services, there will be four authorized centres for blood collection, processing, testing and distribution. Centres in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade and Kragujevac will be interconnected to the information system, but also to all hospitals. The bill is in line with the directives of the Council of Europe, and is modelled by modern laws in this area. This is why it is predicted that in the future it is collected in a one - way manner from voluntary donors and tested with the same regens on the blood of transmitted diseases and other factors. The specialized teams of four transfusion offices will go anywhere where there will be voluntary donations organised by the "Red Cross". The state thus defines the amount of blood needs in Serbia's health according to the number of inhabitants. There must be 250,000 units of blood each year. Now it's gathering between 230 and 240,000 units. The existing law incorrectly did the organisation of a transfusiological service in Serbia, so that carrying out transfusiological activities in the Republic of Serbia was organised on three levels. The first level of the presentation of the Institute for Blood Transfusion of Serbia – the Office for Blood Transfusion of Vojvodina and the National Blood Transfusion Office Nis. The second level is the blood transfusion services in general hospitals, health centres, clinics, and 44. It's the third hospital blood bank in hospitals, institutes and clinics, and it totals 80. The above-mentioned division of work does not have a clear limit, so health institutions and their organisational units of all levels are practically dealing with all tranfusion activities in different ways and in different ways, making it significantly more difficult to balance blood supply and blood components, as well as irrational, inadequate use of blood and blood components. Also, a poor organisational structure has led to a large number of defined service laws that cannot carry out the transfusing activity prescribed by the law, since they do not primarily have adequate space for the above mentioned activities, which cannot achieve one of the basic objectives of the existence of the law, which is to provide adequate amounts of safe blood, and there is a consequence that none of those transfusiological institutions has been authorised to carry out the law of defined transfusiological activity. In addition, the capacities of the existing equipment with which the Institute and the institutions are available are not fully exploited because they currently process less blood and components than the amount for which they are intended. Of course, modernising and developing technology in this area requires improving the depreciation of existing equipment and providing new equipment where necessary. In order to ensure an adequate amount of safe blood for the population of the Republic of Serbia, the new law has primarily been in a clear and unequivocal manner, in accordance with EU directives, defined the roles of two types of health institutions, and this – health institutions that carry out blood and blood components, i.e. carry out the work of planning, collecting, testing, processing, storage and distribution of blood and blood components if they are intended for blood transfusions and do not include patient blood banks and hospital blood banks, which are the organisational units of the stationary health service that perform the function of the conservation, blood and blood components for therapeutic use, pre-transfusion tests, care for optimal use of blood and blood components, autologous transfusion, therapeutic aphere procedures, haemostasis, perintal studies, followed effects of treatment for the needs of that health institution. This basically means that a division of medical institutions involved in the preparation of blood and blood components and of medical institutions dealing with clinical transfusions is envisaged, as this ensures, above all, the rise in the quality of primary activity of each of these health institutions. In order to achieve the basic objective, the law provided for the optimisation of the number of transfusion institutions involved in the preparation of blood and blood components because the quality of services in the field of transfusion medicine depends directly on the conditions in which the activities are carried out. All intended and authorized transfusion facilities will have to have amortised equipment, an appropriate space, as well as educational healthcare professionals and associates, which directly affects the improvement of the quality of blood collection and blood components. The existing law regulates only one part of transfusion medicine and this preparation of blood and blood components, while the area of clinical transfusion was not at all subject to the applicable law. The inclusion of clinical transfusions in the new law ensures that a physician who specializes in the treatment process of each patient according to the recommendations of the World Health Organization will primarily be involved in the use of blood and blood components, and will significantly reduce the number of complications, the number of serious adverse events and reactions that may arise as a result of the use of blood and blood components. According to data from the Biomedicine Office in 2011, 240,626 units of blood were collected in Serbia, and in 2015, 243,743 units were collected. Compared to the total number of blood units collected, each year the Institute for Blood Transfusion of Serbia, the Office for Blood Transfusion of Vojvodina, as well as the Institute for Blood Transfusion of Nis collects more than 50% of the total number of blood units collected. The new law has made it clear that the authorities of transfusion institutions are, above all, in charge of planning and collecting blood and blood components on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Annual plans for the blood supply action are made on the basis of the annual needs plan provided by the hospital blood banks. The role of authorised transfusion institutions in the work of planning and collecting blood and blood components is very important and depends on their good planning and security of sufficient amounts of safe blood throughout the country. That is why their co-operation with the Red Cross of Serbia is necessary, with which they are conducting a promotion of voluntary, unpaid and anonymous giving. Promotional activities, above all, should be unique and targeted, and information on the time and place of blood giving, and that they give their blood for the needs of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not their fellow citizens and, even worse, a specific patient. Through sound planning and the organisation of all authorized transfusion facilities should at any time have sufficient blood for any patient on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the new organisation will allow for a rational, more efficient and less material collection of blood from voluntary donors, while collecting blood and components will be much easier to manage and distribute to places where necessary. In the new organization, only four places will distribute blood from the blood component to all hospital blood banks according to their needs, which they will show each year. As the duration of certain components is a restriction, e.g. The red blood cell concentrate for up to 42 days, platelets for five days, these four centres will strictly take care of the use of blood components and distribute them at a time where the component is necessary, or easier to manage blood supply and blood components from four places, than now from 47 places, which will directly affect the rational use of blood and blood components. In order to ensure the quality and safety of blood for the population of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary that authorised transfusion institutions carry out the work of blood testing and processing, blood components intended for transfusions through the establishment and use of automation procedures in blood testing and processing. In the area of blood treatment, the use of automation, modern equipment and materials provides quality blood, which provides better quality and more effective treatment for patients. By establishing an optimal number of health institutions that carry out the work of the preparation of blood and blood components is a trend that can be seen in all European countries, i.e. in the surrounding countries. In this way, in addition to providing safe and safe blood and establishing a quality system through testing each unit of blood taken or blood components, the costs necessary to carry out these tasks are reduced. For example, using the automation process in determining blood groups provides savings in the use of consumer serum test material, i.e. the possibility of a human error is reduced to a minimum, and above all to the blood of a transmitted disease. This provides safe blood for the patient, thus eliminating additional health care costs. The new safety law raises the quality of blood and blood components to a higher level by prescribing that each tested blood unit and blood component is tested by means of a nucleic acid multiplication technique, i.e. the NAT method. The introduction of the NAT method results in a shorter period of time in detecting viruses that can be transmitted by blood transfusions, which means significantly safer and safer use of blood and blood components. Only Eliza's technique, which in an indirect way proves the presence of antibodies to the presence of some of the viruses mentioned above, and in many cases detected antibodies do not belong to this virus. Therefore, voluntary blood donors who detected antibodies from one of HIV, HCV, HBV virus were exposed to additional stress and had to go to another medical facility for additional studies to rule out the existence of the viruses mentioned above. The introduction of NAT tests will test each collected blood unit, thus ensuring a clear and safe finding, will avoid false positive findings, and additional and unnecessary stress will be avoided for voluntary blood donors. According to the experiences of EU countries, as well as the US, Australia and Canada, it has been confirmed that such a voluntary donor testing organisation is the safest, safest, simplest and cheapest, since equipment is necessary to be fully automated, thus significantly reducing the possibility of error, and all in order to ensure maximum blood safety and protection of all citizens of our country. In the EU countries close to us, such as Croatia, Hungary and Slovenia, NAT is mostly operated in one place because of profitability, which is estimated according to the number of inhabitants of a country. In view of the insufficiently clear formulation of the exercise of inspection supervision, which has in practice created a vague picture of where the inspection should be formed, in whose composition and who may be an inspector, as well as provisions for the organisation of the tasks of the transfusiological work inspector established by law, the surveillance tasks are carried out by a health inspection, educated in accordance with the law governing health care. After six years, there is still no expert inspection in this area, i.e. there is still no inspector who has adequate education and acquired knowledge from biomedicine in accordance with the highest standards of the competent organisation and professional bodies of the EU, and inspections are not carried out continuously. The new law on the establishment of inspection supervision under the Biomedicine Administration provided continued expert supervision in the field of biomedicine, which is specific due to the daily introduction of new methods and procedures, where the need for supervision by experts with the greatest experience in practice, accompanied by contemporary achievements of science in this area is imposed. The quality control system in the field of transfusion medicine involves a well-educated biomedicine inspector who will professionally and objectively determine correctness – irregularity in the work of an authorised blood transfusion institution, i.e. hospital blood banks. As it is a highly sensitive area, whose maladministration in conduct can cause significant consequences on the health of a larger number of people, it is necessary to first of all to have trained inspectors in the field of transfusion medicine who, by their existence and actions, will ensure the sustainability of a high level of quality in this area. In addition to an appropriate educational inspection that carries out inspection on a continuous basis and at least once every two years, the law also introduced changes as regards the period of validity of the work permit. In the current law, every five years an institution that has been authorised should renew it, with the re-preparation of the same documentation and payment of a new fee. The new law introduces the duration of the permit indefinitely, with the possibility of confiscating it in the case of a prescribed law, reducing the costs of health institutions, while maintaining the level of quality of services that perform the activity of transfusiological medicine, as health institutions must continuously meet the prescribed conditions of the quality system, because otherwise the law prescribes the withdrawal of the licence. This law is foreseen to apply from 1 January 2019. In view of the significant changes made by the new law, the reorganisation of the transfusil institutions requires a plan for the reorganisation by stages that implies the change of authorised transfusil institutions that collect at least units of blood and blood components, the hospital blood bank, so that the application of the law can be implemented by 1 January 2019. As the existing law is partly in line with EU directives, and the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to fully comply with EU directives is that all regulations in the field of biomedicine, the new law has been given a positive opinion by the European Commission and is fully in line with EU directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14900	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go. I'm sorry, I'm just gonna get back to work, 'cause we got off to a late debate. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need to pass important laws from the agenda of this session as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14901	I must defend you again if the Protestants come.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14902	Yes, please, keep doing that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I very much respect the importance of the problem that has been trying to regulate this law, because, in accordance with technological development, changes in lifestyle and inadequate protection of health and women and men, over the past decades, the number of families that have not been able to have offspring has increased, both women and men who cannot have children. That's the problem society has to solve. That's why a law like this is important, but the legal text has to be groomed, modified, so that it fully corresponds to the interests of society. In the first row – the question of payment. The complete process of artificial insemination in all variants, in my opinion, must be completely free, and now, as far as I'm aware, about 100,000 dinars are only paid to prepare for the procedure. So, all women who want to have a motherhood, whether married or single, should be able to do so by being absolutely free of charge of their overall medical care. Second, the problem of surrogate mothers. I think he has to be different from what this law predicted. In fact, this law rules out that possibility. Surrogate mothers are already a common practice in some developed countries, countries that, more often undeserved than deserved, are called more civilized than the rest of the planet. What's the reason it's banned here? It is legally difficult to explain that ban, and there is no moral reason to ban it. If one woman proved herself to be a mother, she had two, three, four children, and now she's ready to serve as a surrogate mother that some other woman can't, because otherwise she can't, such reproductive organs are that she simply can't in life, and she can produce an egg cell, which is why she can't have a child, if the potential father of a child agrees, if a potential mother agrees, and if it agrees with a surrogate mother, even with a cash compensation? Why can't a mother who has a few children have another child and get paid to do it? You see, it's much more common in rich families to have infertility and men and women than in poor families. What affects that, science could prove that if you were to do it seriously, if someone wanted to investigate it. I didn't investigate, and I don't know why. I may have the wrong impression, because it happens more often that people from richer families are looking for alternative ways to come to the offspring than people from poor families. But in any case, there is no moral obstacle. A surrogate mother does a difficult physical job in this way, exhausts her system, has to behave like she did for nine months, and when she was carrying her children, and then she needs to be compensated for wanting to do so. The second question is, who should pay for it, whether it should pay for the state, or should they pay for those who are interested in having a child in this way? But to ban this way of gaining offspring, I think it's absolutely the opposite of social interests. Because a surrogate's mother knows clearly who the real mother is. The child may have affection for the surrogate mother because while she was still unconscious, she listened to her heartbeat so that they were somehow the closest to her, some instinctive trust she had with those beats, etc. It's all possible, but it's not important enough to prevent the institution itself from introducing a surrogate in our society. There would be a lot of potential mothers who would be happy about it, there would be a lot of married couples without children who would be willing to pay for it, and there would be, I guess, willing women who would agree on certain conditions to be surrogate mothers. In this way they contribute to themselves, earning for their family and already born children, and contributing to society, and children born in a completely natural way, from the original mother, so that I could call her, the mother who produced an egg cell, have in society the same treatment as those born by a woman who actually did not in the biological sense of their mother. We have cases in some developed countries where a longer-term friendship between these families is created, so there's a sense of attachment and surrogate mother, there's a real birth mother, and why not, if they get along well, why shouldn't it be allowed? The second question, I think that you, ministers, and your associates, little prisoners of old dogmas, when you introduced article 32, where you say – it is forbidden to offer or donate reproductive cells or embryos to obtain property or any other benefit. A woman who doesn't want to get married can choose a man who won't marry her, and he represents an ideal in her imagination of a real man, either by physical appearance, or by intellectual ability, or for any other reason. If they agree that such an important service for society is provided and paid for the money, then what is the reason not to accept it? What's the reason he's a medical worker, as I'd call it, although I don't like to call them workers, but a medical technician or a doctor or someone else, as soon as he suspects such a thing is happening, to stop the process of artificial insemination? Why? Why wouldn't that be left to elementary human freedom? Isn't it better for a woman to find a temporary partner who will give her her sperm to fertilize in an artificial way, who will be of her choice, who will give her consent and who will seek a certain material or other compensation? Why should the state get involved in this unless there's a legal dispute and a civil suit? Why it would be forbidden to advertise or advertise the need for reproductive cells of women and men, i.e. offering these cells, offering monetary compensation for it, etc.? What's that for? Is that some abstract moralism? The child is a child. I think in other places here that a child should still be born unborn if he is born to guarantee that he has the right to learn about the identity of both parents' rights and that someone who gives his sperm can't tell him – I never care about that. The child has the right to know who his biological father is. There's got to be a record. The record must be kept for health reasons, in the case of some hereditary genetic diseases that are not known at first moment, which cannot be learned at the first moment, for which the medicine is unable to learn at this time, and will be found out in 10, 15 or 20 years. Therefore, this must always be known and in a different way the issue of paternity that does not produce after parental care and custody, or motherhood that does not produce maternal care and aging, in surrogate mothers, etc. There are a few other questions that are important here. You're talking about banks of reproductive cells, even embryo banks, although I think it's one dangerous thing. If the embryo freezes, is it possible to actually give birth to a healthy and normal child later or not? I don't think the medicine's clean yet either. If it's not possible to freeze a complete man, then unfreeze him to be alive, I'm not sure it's possible at the embryo. But this is where you banned the embryo from getting out of the pregnant woman who died. Why? A pregnant woman can have a car accident and get herself killed. If her husband wants the baby born and it's possible to find a surrogate and perform surgery in a hurry while the embryo is alive, why not allow it? On the one hand, you allow living people to have their hearts out, liver, and many other organs, kidneys. It's all coming out of people alive. A man is alive while his heart beats, not while his brain is working. Don't, Dr. Djukic, nod your head, because if the brain were determined to determine whether a man was alive or not, believe me, here a third of the MPs could not be declared alive. I didn't point my finger, don't complain, you don't know which third. It's about the heart. As the heart persists in the biological function of the organism, and without the brain, it is proven, and it is persistently proven in our society. In this case, therefore, if the husband, the father of the unborn child, wants the fruit saved, and can be saved because there is a surrogate mother ready to take over, two or three days on the apparatus can be maintained by the victim's wife in life, in a state where her heart beats, until then the embryo is alive and alive. Isn't that right, Dr. Djukic? It's not an embryo alive while the brain is alive, it's a living heart. I proved on my own case, for example, that there are no centers of emotion in the brain, but in the heart. They burned those love centers in my heart and all I had left were hate centers. Ablation was done, or what it's called, and my brain wasn't touched. However, a colleague of yours, when I was in dental school, took me to a brain scanner and when it was over, the doctor said, "You have nothing in your head." I'm very serious about finding a way to give an unborn child a chance. Now, you're going into contradiction here when you're talking about importing or exporting reproductive cells. Is that paid or not paid, Minister? (Goldibor Loncar: Voluntary, no payment.) ) Without payment are these imports and exports from each other, only voluntarily? (Zlatibor Lonchar: Voluntarily.) ) Is he who is a cell donor agreeing to be exported to a particular country of breeding material? You didn't make that very clear here. Did you? (Goldibor potter: In the rule book. In the rule book? You didn't bring me the rule book. You're going now? Here's the thing. I don't think that reproductive material can be exported without the written consent of the donor. That's what you predicted in the rulebook, but you could've done it in law. It's more valuable in the law when it stands. It's a serious enough thing to be in law. The rule is simple, professional stuff, process technique, but this should be introduced into the law. One more thing, I'm into it, and when it comes to organ transplanting that if he didn't give permission to the one whose organ is taken from the living body, of course, we're convinced, it's clear to us that he can't stay that long in life, but he's taken from a living body, only his family can decide whether to give an organ or not. Don't make us any changes here. I guess it's understood that someone wants to donate an organ. For example, you saw that case called Biljana Kovacevic Vucho, if that's what it was called, her kidney transplanted, her kidney didn't get it, and she went for it. Imagine now...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14904	Died.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14905	What's it look like, Maya?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14906	Died.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14907	We used to use that exact term in the Chetnik movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14908	I don't know, I've never been in that movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14909	How come you're supposed to be the Duke of Chetnya?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14910	No, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14911	The proposal was ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14912	You can tell you're an age gentleman, so you don't remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14913	Let me finish, Maya. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14914	I turned off your microphone, so if you could finish the discussion. (Vojislav Seselj: I want to finish.) What's the matter now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14915	So the family needs to know who the organ is given to, so it can decide whether the organ is transplanted or not. If I were to die by accident, if one day I accidentally gave up, I don't believe it could happen, but if it did, that my organs, and I have some organs that are very valuable both from the medical and from the point of view... (Marian Risticevic: Liver. I have a great liver. My liver is capable of defending itself. So, if some of my organs were transplanted to people I think are morally unworthy, in political or ideological, I'd be a vampire and I'd start to rip out my heart or my liver or my lungs or my kidney. It's got to be the one who gives consent and knows who it's about. In the case of imports and exports, as these farmers and semen veterinarians would say, particular work must be done carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14916	You're out of time, and I added a minute and 23 right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14917	I need another half minute. (Faith Radeta: Well, it was on 18 and 20.)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14918	There wasn't, a minute and 32, here's the secretary general telling me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14919	Here, I've been followed by people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14920	Say another sentence or two, let's not guess, and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14921	So they have to be taken into account geographical, cultural, civilizational, and anthropological moments. It's not a simple thing. It's not possible for a political debate to be relevant, but it's very sensitive, and from the aspect of social morality, from the aspect of the state of social consciousness, from the aspect of the level of civilization development, so these things don't need...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14922	Thank you. You used this extra time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14923	Did I take advantage of that too?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14924	I forgot to give my word to the reporter of the board of directors, Dr. Laketić. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14925	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected ministers and his associates, above all, today's two draft laws represent legal acts that are, in the best possible way, following the modern trends of medical science and practice, and also regulations from the European Union legislation. Today's two laws I experience in this way primarily as the intention and desire of the Ministry of Health to adequately regulate the area of biomedical assisted insemination and the area of transfusion medicine in the best possible way. Namely, where was the applicable law in place? First of all, the applicable law, when we talk about a law that regulates the area of transfusion medicine, was definitely incompetent in certain parts of it. That's what I'm saying because he only regulated certain areas of transfusion medicine. Namely, he regulated and defined the area of blood collection and blood derivatives, while absolutely not tang, he did not define, the area of clinical transfusion. This is a rule of many problems in the field of health care, more specifically in the area of transfusion medicine. I'll tell you why. Clinical transfusions define the following parts of this area, i.e.: it performs the work of keeping and issuing blood and blood components for therapeutic use, therefore, pretransfusion studies. Care is taken for optimal use of blood and blood components for autologous transfusions, therapeutic apherestic procedures, haemostasis, perital testing and not to count further. So the clinical transfusion is actually this essential, crucial part of, I'd say, transfusion medicine. This law regulates this area. This is important not only because of the regulation of all these things that I have mentioned, but also because of a new fact, which is that the doctor of the specialist transfusiologist under these new circumstances, in a way that is stipulated by law, literally participates in the treatment of patients from the beginning to the end of his treatment. Again in that way, at least in my opinion, the risk of all the complications that are related to blood transfer has been reduced above all. On the other hand, if we look at the current circumstances and the current situation, therefore, the fact that the applicable law defines the status of transfusiologist itself, you'll agree, I'm a surgeon by profession, transfusiologist, a physician specialist transfusiologist currently has the task of simply betraying the blood to a doctor of another specialty, that's his obligation, therefore, to correct blood to a doctor of another specialty. I think the role of transfusiologists in this way is being raised to some higher pedestal which I certainly believe deserves that specialty, and with this proposal, a better safety is definitely being established in the transfer of blood. The other very important thing that's defined by this transfusion law is exactly one thing, to say, a more detailed and intense blood test taken from the donor and whose transfer is done. We doctors, and biochemists in particular know that in the treatment, therefore, in the blood analysis carried out when taking from the donor, the famous ELISA test was used. ELISA test definitely has its place and ELISA test is a test that, over a longer period of time, has really brought well-being to human civilization, not only through these tests, but through many others, by proving the virus. But the ELISA test, compared to its sensitivity and specificity, definitely has to go slowly into history because it is suppressed by new, modern methods of proving pathological causes not only in blood, but also in other physical fluids. What is important is the introduction of the supersystem, which is provided for in the legal act. Why does this matter? The introduction of this technique of multiplying by nucleic acids determines in a much more detailed and precise way the presence of a pathological agent in the blood. In this way, I believe that legal acts, so by legal proposal, we'll get cleaner, safer blood, blood that's safer...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14926	Bring the end, colleague Laketić. You only have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14927	I'll just touch the other law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14928	You can't go on, I'm sorry, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14929	Thank you. Then in the debate, in principle, I'll continue the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14930	Thank you, next time. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14931	I'll come back for the questions you asked. So, it's not true, the state bears all the costs of out-of-body insemination. There are no partial or any, so the state's full cost of bearing, from beginning to end. This law will fix a lot of things. We're carrying all the costs now, as a state, but we haven't been able to escort the whole process yet. We didn't have the opportunity... What's been happening to us? It happened to us that as a state, we were paying for a third try, so the local self-government singled out the money, so it goes to both the fourth and fifth attempts, so we raised the age limit to 42 years, and then we realized the statistics to succeed the last try, in the largest number of cases. Now the question arises – what was done in previous attempts? We didn't have a regulated inspection, nor was it regulated that in all the clinics that do this there are the same conditions, the same frames, everything, but everything worked on the o-arm system. I think we'll have much better results when we can follow the process from beginning to end, see what we're doing for that money that the state pays and that they'll have to justify everything they've done. I think we're going to help these couples a lot and get security and go to those licensed clinics where we let it be both private and state-owned, whatever, but it has to meet those conditions that are necessary and meet the standards where we want the highest percentage of successful procedures. So there must be the same conditions for everything and I think it's both a guarantee and a quality and a guarantee to make it a better success. As for the surrogate of motherhood, I'll tell you honestly, there's only one in Greece right now, there's no other country, and Greece's already considering changing that law. (Vojislav Seselj: How is it not in America? ) I'm just talking about the EU, about the environment. I don't think we're capable of preventing abuse at this point. I don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but simply, when you don't have it anywhere in the environment, if you let it go, what's going on in Greece, I admit, we're not at that level to prevent abuse. That's one of the basic reasons. Examples that you've led to when someone wants to have a child or someone to have a child, if you've made a deal with him, that's no problem. As for payments, we went to volunteering and anonymity, because we think it's the safest and safest thing for us at this point and the way we're thinking and we're introducing new things now. I'm not saying what's going to happen tomorrow, but simply based on an example of others and everything, I don't think we're the smartest, that we're going to invent something new, that we're going to do something faster than others, we're relying on other examples. There's going to be a state registry where what you asked is what. So, not only that, there's still a lot to go on, whoever comes in here, whoever gets into three knees, you have to bring disease data, everything that's interesting and what's important. It's so regulated, it won't be any different, but back to it, it's volunteering and anonymity. You wondered if the freezing could bring, so it's called not classical freezing, decades already exist, generations and generations were born, after so-called classic freezing, decades. There's been no problem with freezing so far. So for decades it's been working, you can come in and check it out very easily. That's the facts. What you said to the embryo, there's a tragedy, so to carry it, it's tied to this surrogate, until it's regulated by the surrogate then it can't do that because it's connected to each other and the third thing you touched and transplants. There is no country, nor will I believe anywhere, no matter what happens, no matter who today, if someone has given consent to be a donor when his family comes as she says it always does. We don't have an example that it's different somewhere, that it can be done by law, but it's the way the family decides. The second thing, you're on the assumed consent, that every potential donor, that applies, that's what they say, but the family is the one who brings consent. Secondly, you've probably joked about who you're going to go to, there's an exact waiting list, you can't choose who the organ goes to, just the one who's the most threatened he's the first on the list, he gets, and not just the waiting list, but the typing that that organ fits. These are strictly defined rules still in the Eurotransplant, which is extremely transparent, you know it all. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14932	You don't have the right to a replica, said colleague Laketić. (Vojislav Seselj: How I don't have the right to replica when the minister talks directly to me all the time. Here. Let the minister declare himself. ) The minister does not declare himself. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. Ask for a word. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger Dr Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14933	You are referring to the "Eurotransplant" rules, I am not interested in it, I am not interested in the EU, nor in the way it has dealt with it, unless it has solved in some way that would be suitable for us, and that at all costs we see ourselves, and that the rule is what they have already implemented, I absolutely do not accept it. Whoever decides if they'll agree to transplant the body of the deceased, to install that organ to someone else, he needs to know who it's about. That's exactly what I insist on. Even on some priority list to say, here, this. And don't, and the doctors can decide, and they can say, "Here, this one's from a richer layer, this one's politically high-quote, and then we'll go to him first, and then to this other one." It must be allowed for one who has the authority to have the organs, not for one who has the expertise to transplant the organs. The priority is therefore to him who is the owner, and when he decides, the organ is transplanted or not transplanted. We've been campaigning, and there's the minister's wrong, and the state television has been campaigning for several years to imply that the deceased's consent is to have his organ transplanted unless he specifically prohibits it from being done and the family's consent is not mentioned in that case, but if he has not explicitly banned, then he can.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14934	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14935	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished guests from the Ministry of Health, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, from the point of view of medical practice before us today are indeed two crucial laws, an affirmative law which, as the debate moves on, will probably convince you as well as the complete public of Serbia that there is a significant shift and improvement in the areas they are processing. First of all, we have the first law that I have to call upon certain European institutions because they are still in scientific and moral terms, indeed, someone to be followed and respected. On a proposal from the European Association for Human Reproduction and Embryology, the EU Parliament has given suggestions on how and how this area should be regulated. Of course, only insemination can be as accessible as possible, the wider part of the population, in every place, regardless of their property map, or their property status. It's a very human proposal that we've accepted not apriors. Of course, this was the proposal in 2008 that some countries in the environment have shown one archaicism and deep division, above all I refer to the case of Croatia. In Croatia for ten years, this law could not come to adoption, and practically at the very door of the EU, they passed some law precisely because of the interference of some, I say, structures that should not decide on such professional requirements. As far as artificial insemination is concerned, this law gives her one solid legal framework. It will be more accessible and, of course, is very important to us in the context of the struggle for demographic recovery. She's not, of course, the key, but she can certainly make her contribution. With this law according to the current, practically solutions of this old law, it was free of charge only for infertile couples who met a series of conditions and in a limited number of attempts. It will remain free, it is an extremely important criterion, and the intention of this new law is to define the level of validity and availability of fertility conservation services and infertility treatment through BMPO. This is also a step in harmonising with European standards. It is indeed a complex area, a biomedical area that must be governed by a whole new law, and we today have a new law. The new law completely eliminates the weaknesses of the old law in 2009 as it dealt only with the fertilisation process and did not issue a level of quality and took care of the quality of services provided practically by the institutions involved. The very important element in this law is that it is particularly possible for private practice, i.e. private small clinics to continue and enter the programme itself. The data so far show that private practices, because they are managed by really prominent experts, have also had better performance and greater procedures to perform these practical... We have also expanded the domain of who will be covered by this law and given the possibility of keeping eggs, which I believe for medical reasons is very justified and that it is a very good thing. We had on the very Health Committee the opening of some issues, such as surrogate motherhood, but we also debated identity and I want to agree with that and there was really a valid explanation given by Professor Tulic, when he talked about the identity of the people who are donors, that most people who want to be donors, and he said that absolutely everyone is asking to be anonymous and that's something that should be respected and that's something that I think is a better solution in the longer term. The law also established a ban on the establishment and dispute of motherhood and paternity in the procedure of donated cells. Before a couple who cannot obtain offspring naturally are offered the possibility of biomedically assisted fertilisation, other options, such as child adoption, must be presented. Of course, full patient notice is a prerequisite for the conduct of these procedures. The task of the science profession is to then do everything possible to conceive, that is, to care for cells in the best possible way. It is, of course, and made possible by this law, given that a special accent is placed on the watch. It is clearly defined who, as well as how, as well as what qualifications he should have in order to carry out quality supervision. Probably the best element of this law is its insistence on uniformity, that in all parts of our country, in all the institutions that will be authorised be the same level of services provided, which has not been the case so far. As for the second law, on transfusiology, or transfusiological service, I want to say it's reformal. In a completely new way, he organizes transfusion facilities in our country, and it is practically the main thing that he will even out the organization of blood collection throughout our country. Of course, you've already said that the main newspaper will be instead of 47 so far hospital blood banks and transfusiological services, there will be only four authorized centres for blood collection, processing, testing and distribution. And counterpart Laketic stressed that this way will increase the quality of the blood test. We see that the ELISA test will be improved by a more modern nuclear test that is more direct and secure. The very important thing that makes the new law on transfusionology is to introduce a particular field of clinical transfusionology in the domain of work, i.e. transfusiologists really get a new aspect of their action, where they will be able to express and make their full contribution to, let me say, the treatment of patients in which they will participate. I have to say for the public's sake, and remind myself that the complications that can be caused by the inconsistencies of blood giving are very large. In America, as many as 20-30 people die annually because of errors, these are mainly not laboratory errors, but also about the labelling and practical transmission of information. So I think involving transfusiologists will, in the right way, allow transfusiologists themselves to contribute to the treatment of individual patients, but it will allow for a safer transfer, because I said that errors can be fatal, intravenous haemolysis can develop, acute, which is a very lethal and very fast-death state, so that the immediate presence of a clinical transfusiologist in the follow-up of a patient who is given the responsibility of a blood transfusiologist himself is extremely important that in such alarming situations transfusiologist recognises reactions, suspends and enters the antidotic solution and halts this pathological process that can be fatal. The state in this way I hope will solve that problem that it has, which is that patients, which was the case, are asked to bring some of their relatives blood or donate so that they can enter the surgical intervention process. That's what this law will do. At any moment, given that this law requires the establishment of an information system, it will be known in which part of the state there are reserves and at any moment these reserves can be sought and taken, so that an ugly practice that has existed so far, this law will be done and I think it is very, very important. This law, which is very important, will not leave transfusiologists without a job. Transfusiologists will, I believe, also get some professional satisfaction for their knowledge and for their work. Transfusiologists will be more involved in treating patients themselves and that's something that's very good. In neighbouring Croatia I watched, they passed a similar law and gradually changed the transfusiological service and I can say that on this side they are a really good example of reforming the transfusiological service, and we are on a very similar path and I think this is a good step in regulating this area. Anyway, it's two affirmative, good law, which we SDPS will support, we'll vote for them. I think that in this way, there is still one health reform that this minister and this ministry have begun. We have information that over two thousand people will be hired very quickly in Serbia's health centres, that they will be given the opportunity to enter into the process of further knowledge and skills and that this is something that has never happened since I was in medicine, that so many people begin and that it is something for every praise. Anyway, this is a step further in reforming our health system. The adoption of these laws will contribute to a better health response on the ground. I hope that the painful issue of the white plague in Serbia too, that this law, that we will all use to promote this law, increase the birth rate, that more and more children are born in our country and that this country is living. It is the basis for economic, political and any other development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14936	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14937	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, this is a practice in which parliament, I hope, should work in the future. These laws have been in the assembly procedure since 16 December, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted them and sent them to parliament for debate and I think there has been enough time for MPs to get to know each other and today we are having a debate on these laws not by emergency procedure, not by the principle of government's work, and I hope that this principle at the end of this government's term will be something that the new government will continue to work with since June. These laws are good and improve the areas they deal with. They were modernization and one step forward, catching up with time compared to the laws that existed. The previous laws were not so bad, but simply, since they were passed ten years ago, they were certainly overcome by the time and development of medical science and the need for this modernization. They recognize the time in which medicine is located, this area of medicine, we are now talking about this Law on Bio-medical Aided Insemination and introducing modern solutions that exist and are already being practiced in the Republic of Serbia. What we are through reading this law and talking to people who have, of course, more knowledge of this than MPs of the SDS, which we have seen and what we are drawn to notice that perhaps the best way to solve, we have proposed some things through amendments and that is what I want to talk about here today. We think based on these consultations that it's bad that no maximum amount of giving is determined when giving reproductive cells and embryos, so how many times can one person give it? Just once? I don't know, we've been distracted that it's not limited, and without it, it can't move on. Then I apologize. Also, are they supposed to be doing a donor cariotype and other genetic analysis when giving to a sufficient extent? Okay. Next, whether this, article 46, speaks about the number of fertilized eggs that are obtained in the process and how these cells, the maximum number will be determined, the embryos that are formed, will be returned to maximum number according to best practice. That practice, as I understand it, is less, I guess it's the maximum number three right now. It's lower? Okay. But it's not directly related to this law, so it's going to determine, I guess, the Ministry and that's a good solution, but the question is, will any return of these embryos eventually be covered by the Fund, by the cost of the Fund? So, it's going to be treated as one procedure and it's not going to be charged every time women approach the process. No, and that's a good answer. What we think is necessary to end this bad practice, and I hope that this law, by the way, will take effect, the practice that has been going on, that because there are no cryopreservations in some centres, that the embryos that have been received in the process have been thrown away. It's just that if they don't get used at first, the rest is thrown away. I hope now that every time that hyperstimulation is done and how much of an embryo to win, that they will be preserved and that they will be able to be used in those cases as predicted by the law. The law here speaks, we have suggested a limit when a child who has been obtained through the reproductive process can be introduced to a part of the record that is 15 years old, and we have predicted 18 amendments. I see that amendment has been rejected. There must be reasons, and now there's this line, how it's precise to define by law, and if we're going to guess at it, that's something we're going to see through practice. That question that you said at the end of your presentation, that's where our parliamentary group disagrees, that's the issue of surrogate motherhood. I simply think that the argument that we can't control something well and that we can't prevent abuse is not strong enough for me. There are medical cases where surrogates are practically the only option, when women can't carry out pregnancy in any other way and when there are possibly some painful, expensive and very risky that they try to carry out that pregnancy. And in one part of the world, it is used in these cases and medically indicated surrogate motherhood. This state has defined that this law prohibits it, although the whole medical procedure that could, I say, produce through this law is described and regulated, except for the last part, when a surrogate mother would need a child born to return to the parents who gave genetic material. I don't think it's a question of this law, first of all. This law deals with some medical procedures and they basically define everything that needs to be done to create an embryo and put it in a woman, but the part after which it defines that surrogate motherhood, I don't think it's even the subject of this law. In preparation for this debate, I read about a debate that takes a very long time on Serbia's civil code, where this topic should also be found. I think it was more appropriate to find in this law a norm that points to possible solutions in this law to the issue of surrogate motherhood, because what is controversial, is not controversial medicine, it's a question of ethics, it's a disputed morale, it's a controversial situation in society, and whether we as a society can prevent possible abuses. You were talking about some practice in the world. In European countries, I found information that 12 of the 28 countries are allowed. You said he was only in Greece. No, there are other European countries in which it is allowed, not in some of the largest countries. And there is this European Parliament resolution, but it is not binding. These countries continue to use that right. Other countries allowed are Russia, the United States, in some countries the United States is allowed, in some not, Ukraine, and our neighbours allow it by Macedonia, Greece, Bulgaria. So the question now is whether or not we are able as a society to pass a law that will provide for those couples who are practically the only way to reach their offspring. I don't think we should have given up. I'm sorry, I'm such a legal solution where a surrogate motherhood is forbidden by this law, where a criminal act defines an attempt to carry out a surrogate of motherhood for three to ten years is simply, I think it's giving up and I don't think we have the right to do that as a society with all the problems we're in. I think this possibility should have stayed, it shouldn't have been banned by this law. Our proposals on this law go to erase that part of the law. I would like the new government, whenever and however it is formed, to finally pass that civil code, if that is the place to solve these problems, and then, respecting all arguments both for and against and against all the bad, but also the good practice that exists in the world, to take advantage of that and to introduce it into Serbia's legal system. What this law, to say, won't stop, won't stop life. Somewhere, in some ways, people will, I suppose, find a solution or are already found and in those countries where surrogate motherhood is banned, find ways to export embryos or otherwise, by giving birth to surrogates in countries where this is allowed to reach their offspring. I think it is a shame that we do not allow the citizens of Serbia to do so in their own country and make them do so in some other countries. I think we should have the courage and the strength to face it, to start with that practice, to see what it will do and what results it will have. My little life motto is – if we can help one family, one man to do something, not to forbid it, and all possible abuses and other bad things are prevented by other laws, made impossible and reduced. I think that should be the principle that guides us and in this case, this law. So, our parliamentary group will vote for the drafts of these laws. We think that they are essentially good, that they can and will help the state of Serbia get better, stronger, faster to deal with the problem of the white plague that we have. I don't think we've taken advantage of all the possibilities, that we've closed the door to this ban on surrogate motherhood, that it's something bad, and that it would be better if this law, which, I say, was kind of medically, professionally speaking about procedures related to this whole work and simply that ban on surrogate motherhood, was no place here. Let's see through the civil code or some other special law, if necessary, how to define this whole process, how to define and prevent abuses, commercialization. There are various ways, since the selection of surrogate mothers with permission, an authorist surrogate that exists in some countries where commercial surrogate motherhood is forbidden. So, let's leave that opportunity and show that we're a human society that wants to help citizens come true as parents and get their offspring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14938	The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14939	First I'll tell you what you suggested about the border, 15 and 18 years old. It's regulated by law. So, for that reason, that's what patients do. As far as the surrogate's concerned, this is no definitive ban. We simply said that at this point we were unable to resolve it. Keep in mind the problem that is increasingly emerging, which is that when a child gets sick, when his family took him, she returns the child to the surrogate mother. So there's absolutely a civil code that's under way, the whole team's in a mood. If the rules are defined, if they are specified, if we have enough guarantees that there will be no abuse, we have no problem accessing it. We just want to make sure that we don't experiment, that we don't get into a phase, and then it's stuck in our heads. No problem at all. Here, all the experts who think they can participate in helping, let them help, make suggestions. This team has no problem with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14940	Thank you. The word is by the MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14941	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues from the Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have these two laws today, and I must say, as an MP for one opposition parliamentary group, that both laws are good. That doesn't mean we don't have any objections that I'm going to make right now. First a few words to say about the first law, a law that treats biomedically assisted insemination. As far as this first law is concerned, biomedically assisted insemination, I think it's a very good law, a law that represents one important step in the treatment of one of the most severe diseases that has affected Serbia, which is the white plague. Vojislav Seselj throws. ) Chairman, I ask you to ensure peace in the O.R., so that we can discuss the laws. Of course, there's been a lot of words here and a surrogate mother. As far as the surrogate mother is concerned, our MP group fully agrees with the legal proposal that the surrogate mother should not be allowed to be banned, not only do we, as one extremely poor society, cannot prevent many abuses that would surely result from this possibility. Personally, as a psychiatrist, I have certain fences, and I believe that in those nine months, when a mother carries a baby in her stomach, she develops a very large bond and that she can then psychologically come to very strong and large separational problems and that's why we think it's wrong. As for inclusion and private practice, we welcome the inclusion of private practice and we really think that this is the way in which many young couples who cannot... (Vojislav Seselj: Will you give the mandate back? Excuse me, please, will you calm Mr. Seselj down? I have to answer this to him here so that I can return the mandate to Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14942	Comrade Sanda, I can only try, but I don't think that's possible. So keep going, don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14943	I was the bearer of the Dvori-Democratic Party of Serbia. Who do I give my mandate back to? To yourself? (Vojislav Seselj: Return the DSS. So, let's move on. Vojislav Seselj throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14944	Comrade Seselj, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14945	Please provide working conditions, Mr. Arsic. So, what I'd like to say, too, is that this Biomedical Aided Insemination Act, as it is, of course, might be a little bit more dressed up, but it's good because it's a significant step in the treatment of this most severe disease, I'd say, white plague. I'm going to talk a little bit more about this other law regarding the transfusion service itself. It is clear to me that this law has been passed, that it will be adopted, because it is likely to be adopted, and because we have been admitted to Eurotransplant, then it is one of the conditions for this Eurotransplant to come into life, that we also have this law on transfusion medicine. Of course, it would be good if we had a parallel with this and the transplant law, so we could talk about it. Of course, when we get that law, we'll have certain objections to that law, so I wouldn't talk about it right now, but I have to say that we have to think very carefully about donors, because many children in Serbia have been waiting for years, young people in Serbia are waiting for years for a heart transplant, and one Rockefeller, I think, has been on a heart transplant six or seven times and experienced 103 years. Let's get back to this subject, and that's the law. I have a few remarks here. First of all, it's a service organization. As far as I know, we have about 77 or 74 blood banks and 44 transplant services. Now we have four authorized institutions, or Kragujevac is only now forming. However, the whole work on blood processing and collection will be transferred to the four reference facilities. I'm simply asking -- how do you think you can solve the problem of these little transfusion centers, because there are many people who are worried that they're going to lose their jobs, because these little transfusion centers are actually just going to be reduced to someone who's whining and looking for blood from a bigger center, and they're not gonna be able to do anything on their own? Also, around the organization, I'd like to draw attention to one thing, which is that it's about blood components, blood and blood components, and that the law does not involve products, or blood products. To explain a little bit, not to you, but to people who listen to us over TV screens, blood components are obtained by centrifugation of blood, means physical methods, and while physical and chemical methods we get, say, albumin, globulins and some expensive blood products, which are used daily, and then, as very expensive, we import them from abroad. I know the Bureau of Transfusion has produced here, before much, now a little bit of production, a little bit of production, so I really think we should include plasma production, or it's a shame to throw the plasma away and keep it untapped. It's even greater damage, of course, that we have to spend as a state large funds for importing blood products. In this sense, already when there's going to be a reorganization of the service, and we care about opening new jobs, I think that maybe some of us, to call them "drives," laboratories, which would exclusively deal with this production of blood products, would also help hire young people, and not so young, people in transfusions. We still have a problem that's being set up, it's a problem of distribution or transportation. He's a little tied up with what I said. So if we only have four of those centers, if we have the gangs like we have, how are we going to organize that efficient and good distribution, or transport. It's related to an information system that's supposed to be covered by all medical institutions 100%. But we have to say that we still don't have a complete network of health care institutions and that somewhere, it seems to me, I got the information that 20% of medical institutions aren't fully involved in the information system, so then we have this problem and that's where it should be fixed. Next, we come to giving. Donation is so far and from now on, of course, it will be a matter of volunteering, and that's okay, that's what the Red Cross cares about, but so far, the people who were donors were donors because they were motivated or tied to a hospital, like the Zemun Hospital or Dragis Misovic, or some transfusiologist. But now it won't be like that anymore, but there will be organized actions that give one kind of defamation to the whole thing, because people get attached to the institution and to the doctor and then they like to give blood to that doctor or doctor, or to that and that institution, so even some of the experiences in the surrounding countries tell us that there's been one drop of giving when it starts in this kind of action, and on the other hand, we have as a parliamentary group and observations about the treatment of voluntary blood donors themselves. In fact, this may not be specific for you, Minister Loncar, the question is more for Minister Vulin about the days of the law, two days after a man, or woman, gives blood. We have here that most privates don't do it, the law doesn't stick, people have to show up at work the same day they gave blood, and on the other hand we don't have any privileges that these people had before, which is that they have certain advantages in some medical procedures, search, etc. We have to take care of it a little bit, so to speak, these people when they're already on a voluntary basis and they're not getting paid, that they're compensated in another way, and we have to see, too, about giving, how they're going to be solved so-called. Family giving, because we know that family giving is a lot of good, where people for someone of their own are either family members or maybe they're friends from a building, a friend from a street, a yard, from a school, then they come to give blood, how they'll regulate it, we'd also like to find out. As far as the equipment itself and the prices of all these very important and expensive appliances are concerned, I don't know if there will be enough of these 600 million dinars that are for the functioning of the transfusion, because the transfusion is very important, it's very expensive and it's not just a summary factor and four blood groups, but there's a lot more to it, that I'm not bothering with these viewers and listeners of this congregation transfer, but in any case I don't know if the money that's separated here will be enough. Also, I'd like to look back on the very concept of inspector. I think that special inspectors are being introduced into a transfusion, I didn't quite understand why, because transfusiologists are doctors, like psychiatrists, like surgeons. Does that mean that tomorrow, psychiatrists should have their own special inspectors, or surgeons of their own special inspectors, or, I don't know, hematologists, cardiologists, etc. I think a well-educated transfusiologist can do his job perfectly and be the best correction to himself. Just now, colleagues of transfusiologists have complained and expressed their suspicion that it might be within the framework of this inspector's service that there are certain abuses and certain party employment, because I have some information that a colleague in the Fund is in charge of transfusionology, a man who has had trouble passing a specialization, and I don't know whether or not he passed it, they certainly say that he had problems and a man who isn't well-intentioned enough for what can be done and what can't be done. In his desire to save, let's say, he gives for an operation of a man of 70 kilos of four doses of cryopracate, and we know that one dose is enough for 10 kilos of weight. So, there can also be party employment, and that's something that's kind of like that, for my MP group, and also for colleagues I've been talking to, transfusiologists, it's a little bit under question. That wouldn't be unusual, since we know she's in a Kragujevac pharmacy now instead of a doctor specialist in air conditioning management. I don't want to go any further, we'll leave it. Mr. Seselj, please shut up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14946	Comrade Sanda, I apologize to you, Mr. Seselj has special feelings for you, but he doesn't need to show it in the Assembly. (Vojislav Seselj: These are ugly words. ) The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14947	Just to clarify those things you said. First, none of those who work in hospitals and transfusions will be out of a job. What are we trying to do with this? We're trying to get these people who work in hospitals to finally do their jobs, to monitor the use of blood and blood derivatives, and to educate those to whom they hand in, I specifically mean anesthesiologists, that blood. So we return to them, or we give them what they really need to do and for what they've been studying, not only to check the numbers but also to wash out the entire flow that's going. The other thing, this is done for a reason because every single hospital was one for itself and what we had, for example, so far, is that a lot of blood, blood derivatives, remained untapped. They kept it, and they didn't know that someone else needed it there, and then we didn't have a single information system where you could see where and where you have blood, where you have excesses, where you have shortages, and you know it's a limited duration, and that's why we haven't used much. Now not only will we use, but we'll create conditions for what you asked – why don't we make albumin, now we'll finally create conditions, because you'll have a unique information system for all those banks that have blood and blood derivatives, you'll know how much they have, how many needs they need. Everyone's going to apply, what he's planned for, what he needs, depending on what he's going to do, the surgery or what he's planning to do, because all these people have so much experience that they're all going to know what they're going to need in the next day, two, three, five, and then you're not going to get to the bottom of it and throw it away. You're going to have that larger amount and you're going to be able to use it much better. Don't make a mistake, it won't be possible, let's say, to give blood at the hospital "Dragisa Misovic", and he's used to it, no, giving blood in all these places, except that that blood will be carried out in one place, for saving, to control and all those tests that need to be done. Because when you work in more places, you open up those reagents, you do one quantity, the other reagents fail. This is how people will come and take it. You're giving in the same place, but there's going to be a procedure that's going to apply to everyone, it's going to go to that place, it's going to be done, and we're not going to have, if you followed, that we have something suspicious, that we've got antibodies, so we call this donor, and he's going to get scared and see if it's falsely positive or falsely negative. So these things aren't going to happen. That's one reason. As far as inspection is concerned, there is really no reason, the inspection is only because of technology, because this technology is changing, not because of transfusiologists, but because of technology, in order to have as few poor results as possible, i.e. to control that the reagents are within those deadlines that need and the process of work to be respected, to make maximum use of. That's the only reason, not for someone to control the expertise of transfusiologists. We really have great transfusiologists who have proven themselves and proved themselves, with the conditions in which they worked and how they worked, and not now that we're trying to standardize it, that all these transfusiological services have the same conditions and that what we want to have is every application of what they have, that we know what we're counting on and that we're left with so we can make those albumins and blood derivatives again, not buy them, but have them there. It's the only reason and the only reason for all of this. What you mentioned 600 million dinars, it's just for these tests, it has nothing to do with anything else, it's just separate for that. So, for technology and nothing else. That's why it's from 1. 1. In 2019, to make all these things connect and do. Because we know that things can't be done overnight, but that everyone prepares for it and that we educate them and give them everything that's necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14948	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14949	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, Mr Minister, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians – Party for Democratic Action, will be based on the most out-of-body insemination. I would start off with what we're all aware of, that the problem of insufficient birthing of children that is actually beneath the necessary simple reproduction is a huge problem, which we all face, and in this context is something that we all really need to deal with. I would remind all of us, Mr. Minister, you were present on October 26th, the last Thursday of the month, when we were asking parliamentary questions here, and I asked a specific question about the conditions for out-of-body fertilisation, for the regulation of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which, by 2016, was so that the conditions for participation in this procedure for years of life were 40 and then we pointed out that it would not be bad for it to be extended, perhaps to 42. I am extremely pleased that the current Regulation for this year is the Republic Health Insurance Fund, meaning for 2017, such that the condition for years of life is 42 at the time of initiation of the out-of-body fertilisation procedure. So, we've been able to extend a little bit, and hopefully, with mutual cooperation, we'll be able to make a lot of clarity clear, or we'll help all of these couples who are facing this problem. Unfortunately, statistics have shown that in Serbia nearly 400,000 couples face this problem. Sterility is not something that is innate and perhaps to happen to anyone, it can happen to even those who already have one child and that is another problem that I would now like to talk about in this debate about the bill, but first to start from the fact that it is very important that we finally pass a new law, the public debate is over at the beginning of last year and that many of the doubts that have now been clarified in the current law since 2009. A lot of things have been done. I'd like to talk about it first. As we know since 2006, the Republic Health Insurance Fund has funded a biomedically assisted fertilisation programme. As I have already mentioned, there are various conditions, such as years of life and who can actually participate in this programme. The basic condition is that these are women who have infertility despite proper treatment, women who have not given birth or have no children. For many years, the Republic Health Insurance Fund has financed two attempts at out-of-body insemination. It is very good that since mid-2016, a third attempt has been funded, as statistics once again show that unfortunately, it is rarely successful first, that the second and third attempts are much more successful because this is one change that we also support and welcome. It is generally known that the current authorisation to carry out biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures under this applicable law has 18 authorised health institutions, five state and 13 private. You were then talking about why and now when adopting a new law it is important to include private practice, so that as many user pairs as possible can be included in this programme. I pulled the data that since 2010 since there was a Biomedicine Administration until 2015 when these health institutions performed 22,000 procedures biomedical aided insemination of state half of 7,300 and private 14.600 and by statistics the percentage of success was between 25 and 30%, which many say is not a bad figure, but we all have to work to make that percentage as high as possible. As I pointed out in the introduction, I would like to talk about other problems. It's very good that the RFO is funding three attempts of out-of-body fertilization, which we have come to the fact that those women who participate in this programme, means that the number of years has changed from 40 to 42, would not be too bad to extend it to maybe 45 in the coming years and in some near future. I'd like to open up a question and a man's sterility, which is a little bit discussed, and about those couples where a woman has secondary sterility, she has, like, one child, and I'd like to say that for some reason, she can't come naturally to conception. Let me mention specifically in this case various programmes of local self-government, i.e. AP Vojvodina, not only because I am from Zrenjanin, but I must stress that the city of Zrenjanin made its decision for the first time in 2014 and since 2014 a new rule on criteria for the exercise of the right to financial aid for out-of-body fertilisation in the town of Zrenjanin is made every year. In early April, a new regulation was adopted for 2017. The city of Zrenjanin was just thinking about this category, it wouldn't be bad, I know that the financial opportunities of various local self-government are different, but it's just one of the conditions that those couples who don't meet the conditions set by RFZO can participate in this programme. Here you can think of both male sterility and secondary sterility, so those couples that already have one child, at least one child. What's extremely good is that the city of Zrenjanin had already set the limit of a year's life to 45. Of course, we need to talk openly about that there are difficulties here too, and the difficulties are that it is co-financed, so that the maximum amount that can be set aside by 200,000 dinars, it wouldn't be bad for it to be a larger amount and that they can only pay one extra-body fertilization attempt, for now, and if it's not successful, then these couples have no one to turn to again, because the RFO can't because they don't meet those conditions. As I mentioned, the AP Vojvodina also has its own cost co-financing programme for biomedically assisted fertilisation, the AP Vojvodina also co-financed about 200,000 once. This is regulated by the circuit assembly decision on the right to co-finance costs for biomedically assisted fertilisation and again for the second, third and every next child, which means that here is a condition that when a couple or just someone, whether a woman or a man, has a child. I was asked by several people who faced this problem to say that it was unclear, I asked for clarification from the province, even some said that they could not participate in this, because the first child was conceived by natural means. I think we need to sort of clarify these rules, make it clear to people on the ground what they're entitled to and what they don't. The final answer that I received and which I passed, regardless of whether the first child was conceived by an out-of-body fertilisation or a natural path, they can still participate in this programme, which is for every praise, so that there will be no discrimination at several levels. We will all agree on this, to go back a little bit to the specific provisions of the bill that we are discussing today, we will all agree that the essence, the goal of adopting this law, is actually to increase the number of procedures carried out by biomedically assisted fertilisation and to make them more successful, to increase the percentage of the success of these procedures. That's why it's extremely important what you, Mr. Minister, were talking about, that this new law also brings us news in the form of banks of reproductive cells, tissues and embryos. We know that the current law also established the existence, i.e. the possibility of a bank of reproductive cells and tissues, but because of the ambiguity, insufficient regulation of the conditions, or which activities should actually be carried out, it was never brought to life, or it was impossible to establish that, and it would be extremely significant that there was an egg cell bank. Again, the question is being raised, in fact, costing it, and it would be a great savings if it were to be financed from the RFZO, I hope that it will be, as the people would say, saving the state cost, because of course it would make the procedure easier for everyone. It's also important, you've talked about it, I don't want to repeat myself, probably the previous few speakers have talked about, that, as before, it means under the current law of this procedure, biomedically assisted insemination can be involved by couples of a professionally capable male and female male or spouse, so living in marriage, can also be part of a woman who is single and capable of being a mother, doing a parental duty. I would point out, I don't think anyone was talking about it, that it's a good thing that the provision under which it is forbidden to include in this procedure a woman who, after years of life and in general health, is not capable of giving birth, whatever it means, or who is of an age that is not suitable for birth. Times change, now I'm going to mention again what I was talking about. Some European practice, European statistics, is such that the number 45 should be considered. I know there's never enough money, but according to certain doctors, experts, I haven't, but I've really been asking questions for 45 years, and for the health of a woman, and for the health of a child, women should be allowed to come true as mothers if they want to. We are all aware that, in Serbia, money is the biggest problem, and that is why I have talked in detail about the possibilities of RFZO, that is, the state cost offered by local self-government, I specifically talked about Zrenjanin, but there are many examples, and there are conditions very different, even the amount of money that is given, but it would be good to somehow help these local self-governments in terms of where they can still compete, how to come up with money if they have ideas, so that they can expand the program in which they spread a layer of couples who can't come to a different way, to the joy of all of us, even future parents. I talked about it in October, and now I would like to point out that, as is generally known, countries with the highest level of natural origin are Scandinavian countries and there are a number of political, social and other reasons why so. The simplest thing is that these are simply socially responsible societies, institutionalised solidarity where human and minority rights are respected, where there are no greater social inequalities, where social and health care is accessible to all. I hope that in the near future, with the joint efforts of the ministry, everyone with any problem, who faces the sterility in Serbia, if they wish to, can become parents, will not have to raise their credit to be achieved as parents, will not have to go to some other clinics that cost a lot, but will be able to do so in Serbia. In the meantime, I remembered, since I mentioned several health institutions, it means 18 authorized, that it is extremely important, that I go back a little bit to Zrenjanin, that in Zrenjanin it is not conditioned that this couple has to do this procedure at a particular clinic, but they can choose for themselves, which is also with RFZO, which is very important, because it probably contributes in some psychological way to the success of the process. Allow me to speak briefly about the second bill of law that lies ahead of us. I don't think so, since you've been making new papers, too. I won't be long, I'd just like to point out the particular problem that opened up here. I would like you to clarify that or if at least the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and perhaps on a proposal from the AP, would reconsider the problem. So, according to the current law, blood transfusion organisations of transfusiological activity are determined so that there is, as we know, the Institute of Blood Transfusion of Serbia, the Institute of Blood Transfusion of Vojvodina and the Institute of Blood Transfusion of Nis and 44 blood transfusion services in general hospitals, health centres, clinics and hospital blood banks in hospitals, institutes and clinics, 76 of them. As said here, the applicable law regulates only one part of transfusion medicine, and this preparation of blood and blood components, while the area of clinical transfusions that implies the activity of blood-preservation, blood components for therapeutic preparation, was not at all the subject of the applicable law. Because of this poor organisation structure, it has led to a large number of law-defined services, they cannot simply carry out their work, we are quite clear because they do not have adequate space or adequate equipment, etc. However, what remains unclear for us and we were thinking as a parliamentary group to submit an amendment to this bill, then we realized that this is not in this particular proposal part of the law, is actually the number of authorised transfusion institutions that we are talking about here today under this law. It is determined by the plan of a network of health institutions brought by the government to ensure the availability of blood and blood components. We would probably be familiar with the problem, suggest that the General Hospital of Subotica, in the framework of which the blood transfusion service, would nevertheless, if possible, plan a network of institutions that will be brought by the Government within a year of the application of this law, since it is the founder of the AP Vojvodina. So, on the basis of a proposal from the founder, however, the General Hospital of Subotica, with great tradition, can, therefore, be designated as an authorised transfusion facility. As far as we've seen, so it couldn't be intervened here with the amendment, because it's not part of this proposal, but when the government brings up a network plan of health institutions, we ask you to reconsider this problem. I would like to point out that there has been a great tradition of blood donation in Subotic since 1953. According to statistics, about 5,000 people are regular blood donors. Even if we add occasional ones who don't give blood often, but occasionally, in Subotica, there are almost eight, nine, and up to ten thousand voluntary blood donors in the territory of Subotica. It is important to note, as far as General Hospital in Subotica is concerned, there are supplies of blood stable and sufficient. I know you must be thinking globally, but I wanted to point out one positive example and ask you to reconsider this problem one more time. In the day to vote, SVM Party MPs for Democratic Action will support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14950	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14951	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, here's a session where we're talking about two points of the agenda, which for the first time make sense and logic to be in a united debate. So far we've had a lot of things in a united debate, but these are two topics that are related to medicine and on that side, I support this step that has made the SNS unite what is united into one topic. The second thing, as I like to say, is the place where the waist starts is the place where politics ends and how much, listening to my colleagues' statements, I could hear everyone more and less agree with this law both first and second. I am convinced that in the day of the vote, perhaps all the MPs who attend, and for the Serbian Dvori movement, I can say with certainty that they will support both laws. But if it wasn't all this nice, he'd made an effort yesterday, Mr. Secretary of State, and today, Mr. Minister, on several occasions, explaining what is absolutely acceptable to me and the political option that I belong to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14952	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14953	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really trying to listen to my colleagues in the presentations, and I'm not in a group of people who get out of the place, and I'm so grateful to the colleagues who listen to me. These are some things that I guess a man gets when he's young. So, you made an effort, Mr. Minister, and you today, yesterday Mr. Secretary of State, to put into one topic that is absolutely acceptable to me and I say that I will and the movement to which it belongs, something that is unacceptable to me. It does not have to be personal to me, but believe that there are citizens in Serbia who react very badly when something is done under the EU directive. This law, both of which need Serbian citizens. Let's not let what we need be ours by directive. It's completely unnecessary, and you pointed out it a couple of times and yesterday Mr. Vicko also a few times, I said after that meeting, because I'm lucky or unhappy, in this case, happiness is with other colleagues who couldn't listen to further explanations on the Committee on Health and Family, so I said in an informal conversation, so I don't think it's appropriate. Of course, it's your right to say, it's our right to resent what you said, and I think that this discussion of ours should remain. To go back, to talk about some laws. Since I'm a man of the profession, but I don't think I know everything, these are laws that are absolutely highly scientific. So then as the person responsible, who had enough time and one of my colleagues mentioned that the law had entered the procedure at the end of December, so we had time to deal with the laws, I asked the people who were more professional than me and consulted my colleagues in the City of Kings on these issues. As for the law on transfusion medicine, I told Mrs. Nadi yesterday that I had been having conversations with the transfusiologists of the University's health center, and they said something that made me happy, that they also had close co-operation with Mrs. Hope, who is from the Biomedicine Authority. I think it should be an example of working for the future, of consulting people from the profession to bring something that's a matter of profession. So the Serbian Dvori movement didn't even tolerate any amendments. Legally and legally regulate one area that needs to be regulated, which carries a number of serious questions and everything I heard yesterday and today in the presentation of Mr. Minister and in the presentation of colleagues is something that I absolutely can support. I'm going to deal with the biomedical aided fertilization law a little bit more, because it's a topic that is closer to the people and to me as a man of profession, but primarily as a man of the people. I totally agree with Mr. Secretary and that part of your exposure that, behold, I must tell my colleagues from the SNS that you have read. Here, you see, there's no shame in a minister's reading. I have no doubt that he knew that he was telling us, surely he knew, but he wanted to tell us something more at a shorter time limited. He's often resented, Mr. Minister, if anyone from the opposition reads anything, it's written to him. I don't know where. I know you said it, every explanation was oral, and I'm grateful. I particularly agree with the part that says this is not the only question and the only thing we can do and that one of the key issues of the terrible demographic situation in Serbia is solved. That's like one special accent in your presentation you said. So this is one little drop we have to do, but also thousands of other things to do, that's what we have to do, and that's what our colleagues are going to talk about after me. As far as surrogate issues are concerned, we are absolutely in the Serbian Dvori movement supporting a legal solution that has been submitted and proposed as such. So, that surrogate mother issue, I don't agree with many colleagues who have different attitudes. Of course, everyone has the right to state his position and defend him. We think that the proposed legal solution is good, and we think that what is proposed in the civil code, which you mentioned again, I realized that you mentioned it not in terms of promoting it, but to present it to those who have a different opinion than mine and the one that was proposed in the law as an opportunity to try to express their opinion and in some way to articulate it. What interests most ordinary people when it comes to the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act? They are interested in how modern medical achievements can help them to accomplish what, unfortunately, they cannot naturally. That is why, in my opinion, it is a matter of responsibility and institution and individuals who will carry out these processes. That is why I am convinced that you, as a lawmaker and people who have worked on the draft of this law and have devoted most of the law to it and that is absolutely on my part and the point of view of the Serbian Dveri movement is positive and something that should be done. Given that biomedicine is progressing terribly quickly, that all these technological processes that will be able to be used in terms of the assisted expansion of the family are making tremendous progress, it seems to me that at some point, that you will find there, will come to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and also to the Committee and to this Assembly some amendments that we have written, which are purely technical. So the law, in our opinion, is very good, but the amendments wanted to fix some things. We have to make the standards absolutely clear. What you said would no longer have to be renewed, I will call the license, which is absolutely positive in order to save the financial resources, that's good, but that the controls will be more common by the standards that you will prescribe, the standards absolutely to be prescribed, but that the measures of the criminal policies that you provided there, which are different, normally, according to the applicable laws for private entrepreneurs or what I know, for institutions, seemed to me that at one point could have been left to leave some mistakes that could be corrected, and the standards might not be, a little bit corrected. Besides, it'll be a subject when it comes to amendments. The third question, no less important, is the question of abuses that may occur, which perhaps we cannot see from this perspective yet, because the law has not yet come into life, and what time is ahead, in which the law will function, show us. It seems to me that there's been a lot of effort here to bring all possible abuses down to the lowest possible extent. In that sense, I also experience what we talked about in surrogate mothers. What not only you as the Ministry of Health and not just your associates at the Ministry of Biomedicine and the Office of Biomedicine must do in the future, but what we as citizens and those who are in the Assembly will have to do in the next period to open a little more eyes and monitor the implementation of all this. Because if this, which is absolutely good, is just some letter left on paper, we won't be worth the effort you've put in, and let's say immodestly we who've tried to maybe through some discussions we'll find out more about this. It won't be enough for us, because those people who need this law to help, I say, won't be satisfied. It's just one small step this one, and always in order for a man to take thousands of steps he has to take first, that something called a terrible demographic picture in Serbia, something called the possibility that we may not be fixed in a certain period of time. All those reasons you said, and the realization of some professional ambitions, and the decision to give birth in late years, and the decisions of families that, thank God, they can have a child, and to stay on a small number of children, are all factors that we need as a serious state to think about. It seems to me that the adoption of such a law, which I repeat, is in Serbia's interest, and not in the EU's directive, is the first serious step that shows the seriousness of the state and something where I can and the different political options agree, because thank God, it's a profession, not a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14954	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14955	Thank you. The MP group "Enough Has Been" welcomes the intention and desire to improve solutions in these two areas in relation to laws currently in force. We recognize the fact that it was not easy to write these laws and edit these areas, and especially the area of biomedically assisted fertilization, because as I said on the board, there are no non-controversial solutions, we can only build them from less controversial to most controversial. I welcome the fact that, compared to the previous law in the field of biomedical insemination, some things are liberalized. However, I must express great concern over the way it was done. I think there's room to tighten control to make sure there aren't any abuses. I think the legislator himself says in an analysis of the effects of the law that these areas are very sensitive, with progressive development and with great possibilities of abuse. That's the part that worries me. So I'm not worried about the desire to liberalize something, but about how we're going to do it and whether we're going to manage it well enough. What worries me the most is that so far, in previous law, one single member of the import and export laws has been banned. Now imports and exports are allowed and it's like an idea quite fine. However, I am concerned that he is allowed in one single member of the law. The article says: imports and exports are allowed, and the rest will be prescribed by the minister through sublaws and solutions. It is also prescribed that imports and exports must be carried out on condition that quality and safety are ensured. I think it's not enough to prescribe quality and safety as necessary conditions in the law, and leave everything else for a sublegal act, because I can imagine various situations, and we've already had through discussion and examples of some of them, which can arise and which are very problematic, which are not necessarily related to quality and safety, but can represent a problem. I don't think it should be prescribed through a sublegal act, but that we should do it in a little more detail in the law. To give an example, you know about what I'm talking about. For example, when it comes to the import of reproductive cells, our law prescribes that only reproductive cells of the donor that are alive can be used. If we import cells, as we know, so, we import cells, they're safe, they're quality, but we don't know if the donor of these reproductive cells is still alive and we don't have a way to verify it. Perhaps he gave his reproductive cells in a state in which the legislation allowed even after his death the cells to be donated further. So we've got a disagreement here, too. On the other hand, in the case of cell exports, our legislation says that from one donor or a donor of reproductive cells, only one pair of spouses can be fertilized, but if we import cells, do we know whether the donor of these cells has already donated to someone abroad, which is totally in accordance with their legislation, means it is not contrary to the legislation of that country. Again, we have high-quality and safe reproductive cells for use, but we use them against what is prescribed by our law. In that sense, I would like to see in this bill much more detail for such controversial situations. I don't think one member is enough to cover it all. Furthermore, the other big thing that concerns me is that this law allows this work to be done and private practice. In the past law, in a law still in force, in fact, this activity could be dealt with by health institutions in state property and private institutions that are limited-responsibility societies, so what are clinics. I'm talking about economic concepts, and private practice, which is people's say, the cobwebs, i.e. Entrepreneurs, they didn't have the opportunity to deal with this activity, now they're allowed to do it. That doesn't necessarily have to be bad, I'm not even saying it's a necessary bad idea, but I'm worried about something. I'm worried about the fact that private practice, it's private gynecological offices. We've already had a problem with private gynecological offices that are entrepreneurs, in fact, I think we have it still, when it comes to reporting abortions they're carrying out. You know very well that our official statistics absolutely disagree with the figures that professional people in that area are making when it comes to the number of abortions being carried out with us. The reasons are always said that the reason why private gynaecological offices don't report abortion cases is most likely for economic reasons, is because if they break through some limit, they lose the flatulence statute and then it's done so gray, on black. I can't blame them either because our tax rates are really insane, but I'm just saying we have that as a problem. If we know that this is a problem with private practice, and now we have a law that prescribes a single information system, prescribes very touchy, sensitive data that must be kept, whether we are safe and how sure we are that these and such gynological offices will respect that decision. Of course, there's a matter of control. That's why we have the inspection. However, the current law for the exercise of activity permit prescribed that it must be renewed for five years. This law says - the permit is permanent. I understand the argument that they want to save the cost of issuing permits to these health institutions primarily in the state property, but on the other hand, since this is a very touching area that has, and you say for yourself, progressive development and with a very great possibility of abuse, if we give all the permits for an unlimited period of time, and thus inspection surveillance is not strengthened, that at least it has been sharpened for a year, but it has remained for two years, I am simply expressing fear and chilling that there may be an occurrence of unwanteds that we could have warned, means that we have made that control more strictly prescribed. If we're not able to do this right now, maybe we could postpone giving permission to private practice for a while because in this bill of law neither, let's say, there's no time limit for the inspection to begin. The Transfusion Law prescribed deadlines for the single information system to work in two years, I am very pleased that it is so, which is prescribed. Another deadline has been prescribed, but not the time limit for the inspection to begin. So, if it could be, now it's too late, either through some amendment or through a subsequent proposal to amend or supplement the law on these two things on stricter control takes account, then I would be very pleased. That's two of the biggest objections. These remains are some things that are much easier to correct, such as the amount of sublegal acts that are expected to be prescribed after this law has been passed is incredibly large and unacceptable to me. We have a bill of 73 members. In 20 of those 73 members, it is mentioned that the minister will prescribe closer conditions for this, closer conditions for that, etc. It's too many sublegal acts. I think some of them could have been part of this law for a number of reasons. One of the most important reasons for me is the fact that sublegal acts are brought away from the eyes of the public, so, within some professional circles outside the layman's public, I don't say within intra-dural circles, but we don't have as layman's easy access to those laws. On the website of the Ministry of Health and other ministries we will find all health laws neatly, but sublegal acts very rarely. So, when this act is passed, it's very difficult to reach it later. It's possible, it's not impossible, but it's more complicated. Secondly, I am in favour of the fact that, when it comes to the adoption of regulations, the majority of the prescribed provisions are brought to the Assembly, which is the most legislative body, and that, for sublegal acts to be prescribed by the minister, forms of the costs of certain taxis and so on, some fewer things. But, for example, the conditions and the way imports and exports will be carried out, it really should be an integral part of this law, not a sublaw. The same applies to the conditions under which they will be tested, distributed, preserved, etc. reproductive cells. National quality standards should also be part of this law, according to me, not part of a sublegal act, and would also relieve the minister of not having to process it, as they would say. Another observation refers to Article 3 of the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination, which lists the meaning of the term used in the law – the title of that article. Here, for example, you have a number of expressions that are defined, which are absolutely nowhere to be used in the law: the cryo laboratory, embryological laboratory, validation, qualification, molestery. In that other law on transfusion medicine, there is a hemovigilant, which is not mentioned in the law anywhere. I guess what could have happened here is there are two versions; one is that something that an EU directive requires has simply been translated, so it's missed, and the other is that these expressions, which in some first draft of the law, might have really been used, and then it's decided to transfer it to a sublegal act. The last thing concerns both laws, I have to resent here, I also resented the Committee, that the material that we received in relation to these two laws means, both laws, bill proposals, and the analysis of the reasons for the adoption of the law, had an unacceptable number of grammatical, spelling and spelling errors. We've had laws before, there's a mistake here and there, but that's normal, who makes mistakes. However, there was a terrible, terrible amount here, and I just wanted to suggest that before the Laws were given to the Assembly, this material looked at a lecturer, if you had employed lecturers in the Ministry or in the Government, if not, there would be no burning to get hired. It is extremely difficult to read material with this number of literal errors. As far as the Transfused Medicine Act is concerned, we welcome a better arrangement of transfusion services. We think this is a good solution, but there are still objections, these general remarks that are the same for both laws, which is that again we have an incredibly large number of sublegal acts that are expected to be prescribed by the minister, not the National Assembly. Of the 55 law members in the 17 members of the law, it is mentioned that the minister should prescribe something. And, as I said, the time limit for setting up and starting the inspection is not prescribed, while, for example, it is prescribed for the establishment of a single register and for the establishment of a single information system is given a deadline. That's what I want to say. I'm very pleased that we have some deadlines, and now all we have to do is respect them and then everything will be perfectly fine. So much for me on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14956	Thank you. Minister, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14957	You said a lot, but then you went off topic on the subject and then you didn't just tie things up. First of all, you said private clinics in your house have doubts about whether it will work, whether the inspection will come out enough times. You just have to get back to the beginning. So, in order for a private clinic to be able to participate in this right now, whether it's private, whether it's state or anything, it has to meet all the conditions. So that's the basis of everything. When it meets all conditions, it cannot do what you just said, that it does not report anything, that it does not work or anything. So he's shutting each other down. When you meet all these conditions, the inspection minimum once every two years comes out. In case of a report, get out now. So it's pretty simple. When someone invests so much in equipment, in a coma, in everything, it costs a lot, it's gonna be hard to play with something that doesn't come true afterwards. That's why we're doing this right now, because we couldn't control this at all. And that's why we think it's going to be much better results. As for the inspection, for that reason, the inspection is now going from biomedicine so that it can determine everything we suspect could be misused. You haven't looked, 18 months from the moment, it says, 18 months from the moment of entry into force, that is, when you meet all the conditions, to train the inspection, to train everyone. So it does. Sublegal acts, I'm sure you're aware that not everything can be regulated by law, especially these things that are like one living organism. Sublegal acts will be regulated, going to be related, joining those 17, which will be five. Anything that's related to getting together, but you can't get all the laws because you'd keep changing the law because these things change on an annual, two-year level and reference labs and the causes that are being done, all the analyses that are being done. So that's what's going on right now, now you have a condition, I don't know the camera to watch the embryo. You'll put it in the law and he'll change that camera next year, put something else on. Nobody gets paid to invest that much, and then they don't follow and they don't meet the conditions. So that's a very simple logic. Which someone would risk if you could come in and check every day, and of course, when we're giving that kind of money, we're not gonna let that money go any more, and we don't, and we don't always get the last try. Well, we're not that naive, either. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14958	The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14959	We have two very important proposals for health care laws, a bill on biomedically assisted fertilisation and a proposal for a law on transfusion medicine. First, I'd like to refer to the biomedical aided fertilization law. I would like to remind you that the difficulties in achieving offspring are the problem facing people around the world. For this reason, it is no wonder that the need to treat infertility has assisted and increased in all countries. Biomedically assisted fertilisation or what we most often call artificial insemination in human reproductive medicine officially entered in 1978 and since then huge scientific and technological progress has been recorded in this area. Today, assisted reproductions are a means that 70 to 80% of couples will be born and responsible for the birth of five million babies around the world. This method treats infertility in cases where the causes of infertility cannot be removed, but must be avoided. In Serbia, nearly 200,000 couples, i.e. every week, have problems spontaneously gaining offspring. Of that number, as many as 60 thousand are candidates for out-of-body insemination. During 2016, 4,616 attempts to treat infertility with out-of-body fertilisation were made possible. In 2,074 cases babies are either born or on their way. For this year, the Health Insurance Fund also signed contracts with ten private institutions in which couples can do so on the cost of the state, and out-of-body insemination is carried out in five state clinics. This Law on the Treatment of Infertility Biomedical Aided Insemination was adopted in 2009 and was then partially in line with European legislation in this area, however, after six years of application, the need for further improvement and precision of the conditions and organisation of biomedically assisted fertilisation as well as supervision of the performance of this activity appears. In the existing legal framework relating to the treatment of infertility, in biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures, the conditions under which this activity can be carried out are not sufficiently specified, including testing, processing, freezing, freezing, conservation, storage and distribution of reproductive cells and embryos, as well as imports and exports of reproductive cells. This has led to poor practice because various health institutions that carry out biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures define these conditions in different ways, thus lacking the quality of application of this law, starting with the fact that the primary objective of regulating the field of biomedical assisted fertilisation is to create conditions for this procedure to be carried out in a uniform manner, and all in accordance with modern standards of medical practice and science. One reason for the creation of a new Law on Biomedical Aided Fertility is to extend the definition of the biomedically assisted fertilisation procedure which applied to the applicable law only in case of infertility, while the proposal for a new law extends this procedure and to cases of the existence of medical indications for the preservation of fertility. In this way, the proposed law allows a greater number of persons to participate in the biomedically assisted fertilisation process, as it also determines the right to the process of freezing reproductive cells due to the possibility of reducing or losing reproductive function for medical reasons, which has not been the case so far. The adoption of this law also affects the raising of citizens' awareness of the importance of donation, which will increase the number of successful treatment by the biomedically assisted fertilisation process and improve the quality of health care provided in accordance with modern medical practice standards. This procedure is regulated by the precise regulation of the conditions under which anyone can implement it, i.e. which institutions and clear inspection supervision to carry out this procedure. Due to the increased incidence of infertility in our country in recent years and the objective need for as many couples with this problem to be involved in the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation, the legislator recognised the importance of the availability of biomedical aided fertilisation in such a way as to enable the new legal framework to participate in the provision of health care services of this type. The practice so far has been such that only at the level of territorial health activity has been implemented the biomedically assisted fertilisation procedure, however, in accordance with EU practice and laws, the position to engage under equal conditions and private practice in the implementation of this activity has been accepted. This is also justified from an economic point of view, as new operators on the market and market competition are stimulated. Due to the sensitivity of this area and the real potential of abuse, it is particularly important to specify the continuous inspection procedures that operate within the Biomedicine Authority and clearly define the composition of inspection surveillance. These are intended to be trained biomedicine inspectors to ensure a high level of quality in the area of biomedically assisted fertilisation. Until now, this procedure has not been sufficiently precise, with a lot of indetermination, which has created ambiguities as to who should carry out inspection controls, or where this surveillance should be formed. In addition, the need for terminology and precision in order to harmonise domestic law in this area with EU law has been identified. This proposal of the Biomedical Aided Fertilisation Act also achieves the principle of economicism as it introduces a newspaper that prescribes that the permit for the work of institutions carrying out this activity is issued indefinitely with the possibility of confiscation, in accordance with the law, and so far this authorisation has to be renewed every five years with a certain monetary compensation and which has not been small. What I would especially like to praise is the new regulation on the content and scope of health care rights from compulsory health insurance for 2017, which increases the age limit for artificial insemination from the current 40 to 42 years. I find this very important because the age for birth because of the social conditions of life, the growing health problems when it comes to conception, the economic and other reasons have moved significantly, and this will give women over 40 years of age a chance to achieve their role as a mother. The government of the Republic of Serbia's serious and responsible approach on the subject also speaks of the fact that a large number of experts from this area and the general public participated in the draft law, which had the opportunity to send their proposals and suggestions, and that the public debate was conducted from 22 January to 11 February 2016. Therefore, the proposal for a law on biomedical assisted fertilisation aims to increase the number of procedures carried out by biomedically assisted fertilisation and to increase the overall number of successful biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures through a regulated organisational system in this area and to create uniform conditions for the implementation of biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures, the establishment of a quality system and clear inspection and the introduction of a single IT system in this area. All of the above will, in my deep conviction, have a significant impact on the reduction of so-called. White plagues and an increase in the birth rate in Serbia, which is of great importance and for this reason the SPS parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. The second bill of law that we are discussing today and which I would like to say a few words about is the Transfusion Medicine Act. This multidisciplinary branch of medicine has so far functioned with a lot of problems due to an incorrectly regulated division of work between health institutions, often inadequate space, equipment and personnel in individual institutions. The new law precisely regulates the way, procedure, conditions, organisation and activity of transfusion medicine and the supervision of the implementation of this law and the conduct of transfusion medicine on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of this action. The need to pass a new law stems from the fact that it is necessary for the area of transfusion medicine to be regulated in a comprehensive manner and more precisely defines the division of the roles of all health institutions that use blood and blood components in their work. An important legal framework is used to implement the three-level network of health institutions in the field of transfusion medicine. The first is the Institute for Blood Transfusion of Serbia, the Office for Blood Transfusion of Vojvodina and the National Blood Transfusion Office Nis. The second level consists of blood transfusion services that functioned in hospitals, health centres and clinics. The third level consists of hospital blood banks in hospitals, institutes and clinics. This system of arrangement of a network of health institutions in the field of transfusion medicine did not work at a satisfactory level primarily because of the unclear division of work between these levels, as well as inadequate equipment and personnel. In addition, only one part of the transfusion medicine related to blood preparation has been arranged in this way, while the area of clinical transfusionology that implies the efficacy of blood storage and blood and blood components, studies, care for optimal application of blood and monitoring of the effects of treatment has not been subject to the applicable law at all. For these reasons, the new law introduces two levels of health institutions that will perform the work of transfusil medicine with a clearly defined workaround. The first level, which is the transfusion facilities that will be involved in the preparation of blood and blood components, the work of promotion, planning, collection and testing, processing, storage and distribution of blood and blood components. The second level refers to a clinical transfusion conducted in both hospital blood banks, which includes the activity of blood and blood components, therapeutic use of blood, pretransfusion studies, care for optimal use of blood and monitoring of blood components. Thus, the current legislation has not clearly defined the role of blood banks, i.e. clinical transfusions. The proposed solutions are fully consistent with the European standards and recommendations of WHO, as the participation of transfusiologist specialists in the treatment process will significantly contribute to the reduction of complications and unwanted reactions that may arise as a result of blood and blood components. So far, the transfusiologist has only delivered blood based on the need of a specialist doctor, where his responsibility in the patient's treatment process ended. The applicable law already provides for the necessity of testing blood according to international standards and protocols for certain diseases that can be transmitted through blood, such as hepatitis b, c, AIDS and syphilis. However, the new legal solution raises this process to a higher level of security by introducing a single method in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. The "nap" method of multiplying nucleic acids, which is a much more efficient and reliable method, is also achieved by this method significantly faster. This method will be conducted by an authorised transfusion facility authorised to carry out blood tests. The Biomedicine Administration has conducted an analysis of the number of collected and necessary blood units and blood components and has found that this number is constantly increasing and there is enough blood in the reserves, but due to poor planning, irrational consumption and seasonal blood shortages, there are not enough of these units for the needs of patients as end-users of health care. It is precisely because, in order to continuously ensure adequate amount of blood and blood components, this law provides for the adoption of an annual blood supply plan in all hospital banks, and based on the delivery of analysis of the needs of each blood bank, the authorised transfusion facilities from which they are supplied, it brings the overall annual plan. The draft law on transfusion medicine also provides for the introduction of a single information system, which will achieve more efficient work and better and faster communication between health institutions in this area. Also, any difficult circumstances will be removed in terms of tracking a trail of blood and blood components from the donor to the patient and vice versa, as well as monitoring adverse events and reactions. The new law also clearly established inspection supervision under the Biomedicine Authority over the work of authorised blood transfusion institutions and hospital banks, which is not the case in the existing law, where the inspection is carried out by a health inspection. This affects the removal of all ambiguities and indetermination about the conduct of inspection surveillance, because in practice there is a uncertainty where the inspection should be formed. Given the importance of this law to be passed, in order to better regulate relations in the area of transfusionology, and above all in order to make it safer and safer to apply blood and blood components in the treatment of citizens, the SNS parliamentary group will be declared in the voting day, i.e. to support this law, as well as the Law on Bioaided Insemination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14960	Thank you. No more registered by authorised representatives. Okay. Thank you. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic is not here. Marinika Tepic is not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just enough to lift up those who walk and disturb, I give my time to my colleague Miletic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14962	Ambassador Nenad Konstantinovic is not here. Branimir Jovanovic is not here. Gordana Komic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14963	Thank you. By listening to the debate and, unfortunately, reading the reasons of the minister, it is said in the Assembly, it is read at home, but well, I don't blame it. But listening to the whole debate, I think we're making a deep mistake in the approach. This isn't a law that's professional. This is the deep political law, the most political that this assembly has ever dealt with. By this law you change ethics and social relations in one area, provoked by technology and the rules that technology has made. I am, of course, in order to edit this area, especially because Serbia belongs to one of the rare countries where a second-generation baby was born from out-of-body fertilisation in 2014 or 2015. So, the girl who was conceived in 1994 became a natural mother, which is a rare case. And I understand exactly how important it is that society, that institutions, that the minister, that all of us who take care of the budget say – the money from the budget should be used to control how it is used, to make someone happy with medical help, whether he is in pairs or a single parent. But it would be important if we talked here more about ethics, about the consequences this law will produce in other laws. We're going to have to change the definition of what a mother is. We will have to change the definitions in the Constitution what we consider to be a new model in social relations. That is why it seems to me, with all due respect for the enormous efforts of the professional people who wrote the law, making sure that everything that needs to be covered and defined is so defined, but that we understand that there are deeply ethical, and therefore political issues being raised here. What are my rights if I'm an out-of-body medically assisted child? What are my rights if there is a change and a surrogate motherhood is allowed? What are my rights as a donor? So, all these very delicate ethical issues are the essence of this law. I'm glad the law was enough in the procedure to read it. I'd like some amendments that are in the process to be adopted and I'd like to talk a lot more, without reading the reasons, about what we're changing by this law for those 2,000 people who are likely to have medically assisted insemination during the year, and what kind of message we're sending for some other 4,000 people next year what this country wants to do, in what way, to allow them to become parents. Why am I saying this? You know it better than I do that you have a three-parent child in Great Britain, you have the genetic material of two mothers and one father. Those are deep ethical issues. I am grateful to doctors, researchers and to you, for allowing us with their knowledge, their technological progress and their courage in intervention to raise the ethical issues that your knowledge raises, hopefully, making happiness for those who manage to gain children in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14964	Thank you. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14965	I'm sorry, just to clarify one thing. This law, i.e. the bill and everything else, has brought a pure waist. It has nothing to do with politics or anything else. Here, check it out. Make sure someone wasn't involved in making this bill. Just make sure someone's left out that he didn't take part in this and that the waist's skipped somewhere about this. Don't switch to politics. The law has nothing to do with politics, pure profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14966	Pure answer. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14967	Mr. Minister, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs, after yesterday's good information that the government of the Republic of Serbia has approved the employment of 2,010 medical workers, we are also discussing two very important laws in the Serbian Parliament today for Serbia's medical system. I am absolutely in favour of editing both of these areas and in voting day I will support both of these laws. What is important because of Serbia's citizens to say in this brief discussion that 400,000 couples have problems in out-of-body fertilisation in Serbia. But what is also important to say is that none of these couples are waiting in Serbia for out-of-body fertilisation, that the health ministry has increased the limit for out-of-body fertilisation from 40 to 42 years, that since 2006, the RFZO has financed three out-of-body fertilisations and that many municipalities and cities in Serbia are involved in co-financing of out-of-body fertilisation. The proposal for a new law is detailed in the field of biomedical assisted fertilisation and all procedures and frameworks related to the process of obtaining, processing, testing of reproductive cells, as well as monitoring measures for the work of the centre for out-of-body fertilisation. It is also important to point out that it is fully in line with EU laws and, as far as I know, there are 18 centres for out-of-body fertilisation in Serbia. However, the most important newspaper of this law is that couples who successfully complete the out-of-body fertilisation process in the future could present the remaining frozen embryos they no longer need. The giving of embryos is recognized as something that is useful to society and the purpose of this law is that embryos are not actually produced to give, but to bow down to couples who have major problems. Such couples are given a new option as if they had adopted a child. However, because of Serbian citizens, I want to point out how important this area is to an example of a state in a region that does not have this area arranged, so that Serbian citizens can see what problems couples, women in artificial fertilisation are facing. That is unfortunately Bosnia and Herzegovina. I only want to give an example. So the woman went through 10 biomedically assisted fertilization procedures, five of which were insemination and five out-of-body fertilization procedures. This woman's body was removed from 65 egg cells for only one pregnancy. The seven-year treatment process ended successfully with a twin pregnancy and the birth of two healthy children, but all out-of-body fertilization procedures this couple paid with savings, loans, gifts. Then, in this country, there is no possibility of out-of-body fertilisation with the help of donated cells, so citizens and citizens are forced to work outside the borders of their country, which further increases the price of treatment, without talking about how positive the freezing of embryos affects women’s health and how many couples entering the out-of-body fertilisation process are exposed to less stress and have a better chance of successful out-of-body fertilisation. As far as this second law is concerned, I would like to say that in 2019 it is a deadline for its application, that we here in parliament will closely monitor the stages of its application, that you have positive experience from Croatia, but that at this point it is most important to explain to people that blood banks will not run out of work and that this will not reduce potential blood donors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14968	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14969	What Mrs. Comic meant, I really don't know what Mr. Minister was so angry about, that policy she meant was that politics was also ethics. This really, apart from those professional works, which I have no doubt was done with consultations with the professional public etc., this law has one huge ethical part because it really introduces a whole new relationship in our society and this policy was meant by Mrs Comic, not by politics in terms of political parties. I don't know what kind of problem you have to realize, and don't see that this is, although your colleagues have been saying, one political question because it brings a whole new relationship into our society. When we talked at the Parliament club about this law, there were so many questions that we had different opinions about, which we consulted on. Mrs. Stamenkovic said that there is really almost no law on biomedically assisted fertilisation of things that do not cause some kind of controversy. That's what Mrs. Comic meant. No one here is against you. There is no need in this way to defend yourself against the DS parliamentary group. We're against you for other things. As far as this law is concerned, we're not against you. We are against you because you prohibit the employment of a doctor, which you support the wrong policy, etc. So there's a whole series of things in this law that really need to be viewed from multiple angles. One angle is professional, one angle is the one we put some amendments on. Let's just say, we don't see how a doctor has the ability to assess whether anyone has any intention of benefiting from it or otherwise benefiting from it. We feel that this should be regulated by other laws and certainly should be limited by Criminal Law, but that I am a doctor who participates in this procedure, there is no way to determine that. When we look at us who are not of the medical profession, but simply do not deal with it, we always look from the perspective of those who will be users of this out-of-body fertilization, biomedically assisted fertilisation, whether it be individuals, whether it be couples or even those children that will come this way. Indeed, when we discussed it at the Parliament club, we discussed how this law would affect those who would be users of this law or those who would come into existence thanks to this law. Of course the law is more modern than the one it was. Because, together with some other colleagues, when we passed the law, I fought a battle over the fact that women who do not have a partner should also be allowed to undergo biomedically assisted insemination. I am very pleased to see that in this proposal this procedure has been further facilitated, that they no longer need any special permission from the minister, I do not know what it looked like in the past, but that now a woman who is without a partner can submit to it. The previous law was called the Law on the Treatment of Infertility by means of a biomedically assisted fertilization, which led us to point out that you are treating infertility, or medical service to someone by conditioning whether or not there is a marriage certificate. You've made that right now. I'm glad you did. In any case, I think it will make it easier for those who want offspring, and cannot accomplish it differently, this law will make it easier for them to come to the offspring. I think that's a positive thing. What remains open questions is the big issue of surrogate motherhood, which we obviously have different opinions on. It certainly is a practice that exists in many countries. My personal opinion is that, if we've gone this far into modernising this law, we should have gone to the end, that we should have taken that last step, that there are various ways to prevent possible abuses, which can certainly be, and that it really should also be possible for those who in no other way can become parents to do so. I believe that maybe, since we're on our way to modernization, in one of the next laws, we'll take that step. I think someone else said -- it's very important that in some future law we still raise that age line to 45 years or something that we agree on to be possible. It's a good thing it was raised from 40 to 42 years old. I think there's room for that to move. Of course, all the open questions that colleagues have asked remain open. The issue of imports. Since we really cannot know what the rules are in the countries from which the material is imported, does this material that comes meet the conditions prescribed by law in our country? If there's a way to solve this, if it's intended to be resolved by some sublegal acts, I think it should be within the law. It's a very important law, fundamentally and directly affecting people's lives, and I think that as many things that could have been regulated by law should have been regulated by law, and the fewer people left behind by sublegal law. Because it seems to me that rare laws people will be as directly interested in as this one. It may not seem to them at the first moment that this is one of the laws that may affect their lives most, but for anyone who goes to that so-called. The artificial insemination, for anyone who in this way achieves offspring, will be extremely important to any letter that stands in this law. That's why we think that many of the things you left under the law had to be regulated by law. Some MPs have already spoken of many of them, and we are really facing some ethical issues in this regard politically, because they are very sensitive, they are very controversial, and I think we should be very careful about everything that is written in this law and that you do not reject what we say, especially when it comes to the debate on amendments, because someone may seem to be having an expert discussion, it is actually deeply political.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14970	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14971	I was obliged to clarify the import, export and this a little while ago. If you look closely, the import -- the export, it goes from a bank that has to be the same, absolutely has the same rules as ours, and that means that it has to have everything we've talked about, that it has to meet all that. We cannot cooperate, import – we export from a bank that is not the same as ours, which does not work on the same principle. It's our guarantee to stop anything. What we were saying was that we didn't have any insight, that we didn't get to the third knee of whoever was involved in the process. So that's it. I repeat, you can't regulate everything by law, because this is, and you said it yourself, a living organism. We should change it for six months. Here things change literally for a year, they move on and move on. If you're fixing the law now, we'd have to sit around and change them because it's making so much progress. Do you understand me? But, sublegal acts, there are, say, eight, 12, but all related must group, there will be four or five. I don't know if you understand me. So that's the way he is, that's the living organism. I'm just asking that we have an understanding of those who are waiting for this with serious impatience. People, to whom this may be their only chance. This is all for someone, and we want to help them. I agree, ethical question, everything. Ethicians, people who deal with it, were absolutely involved in writing all this. Involved directly in writing this, looking at what, how it could be. But we can't do things before they happen. We have to pass the law, we have to implement it, and then we all have to work on it and help all those people who are interested in it. I think it's part of our obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14972	The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14973	Dear Mr. Minister with his associates, it may sound immodest, but it's not. Indeed, there are two extremely, extremely good laws on the agenda today, and I convey all the praises of my colleagues with whom I have discussed these two laws, whose medical activity is related to biomedically assisted fertilisation and transfusion medicine. They are really overly satisfied with the laws that are on the agenda today. There are also people who were members of the republic's expert committees who directly participated in the drafting of the draft laws mentioned. You, in the opening statement, have very detailedly explained these two laws, in detail, precise and clear, so I will probably repeat myself in my presentation with you and with the findings of my colleagues, but it is not a waste because of the citizens of Serbia who are plagued by this problem of infertility. I would like to say that reproductive law is one of the fundamental rights of women and men, that creating a family and getting offspring is the most important goal and the strongest satisfaction of people in all societies and human communities. A little bit about the history of biomedically assisted insemination, it officially entered human reproductive medicine in 1978 when the first baby was born in England in this way, and as far as Serbia is concerned, our decapitated name and definition dates back to the 1980s. In 2006, if I'm wrong, correct me, we had 1,000 attempts, or couples a year, which are subjected to biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures, in 2016, that number is fourfold higher. We have 18 medical institutions dealing with the mentioned branch of medicine, of which five state and 13 private. As for the extraterrestrial Insemination Clinic, the GAC in Nis, biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures have been conducted since 2008. Practically since November 2008, about 2,200 procedures have been done so far, with a 40% pregnancy rate and a 25% to 30% birth rate. We all know and we've heard that biomedically assisted fertilization is the ultimate form of treatment of sterility, when all the other methods of treating sterility are unsuccessful. The last few years in our country have seen an increase in the incidence of infertility, we are not other than the world, and so are industrially developed countries, where this percentage is 10 to 15. The number of patients is considered to be increased due to the increased risk associated with modern lifestyles, delay in birth due to schooling and careers, increased sexual partners and greater exposure opportunities and full-traffic illnesses and pelvic inflammation disease, increased representation of obesity. According to some authors, the use of contraception, such as intrauterine cartridges, as well as the common way of family planning or contraception, in Serbia abortion, is particularly worrying for young people, as well as reduced male fertility. Aproximably 30% of Serbia's marriages are inflexible if age ranges from 35 to 44 years of age. In fact, we all know that aging results in the wear-out of a woman's eye shadow reserves, should be noted and stressed that the negative impact of years is not only in the reduced number of readings, but also in their quality. In fact, studies show that the highest fertility of women in life is from 20 to 24 years of age, and already around 50 years of life only about 1,000 egg cells remain and most of them are abnormal, because the good ones have already been used. So three to five percent of patients treated for infertility are treated precisely by methods of biomedically assisted insemination. With us right now, 400,000 couples, in our country, have a serious problem with the conception and birth. Raw figures show that in both men and women, the problem of infertility is about 40% for the share of male factor in sterility, or for women 40 to 50%, while in 10% the problem of sterility is present in both partners, according to some authors it is even 20%. In order to facilitate the real situation of life for our citizens who are going through painful life experiences in the process of procreation, the proposed new law aims to facilitate, regulate and provide security in the biomedically assisted fertilisation process. The proposal for a law sets out in detail the entire area of BMPO and all the activities within it, from the process of testing, obtaining, processing, freezing, storage, storage and distribution of reproductive cells, zygotes and embryos, imports and exports of reproductive cells at national level, to be carried out by the bank. So the principle of traceability from the donor to the recipient. The paper in the law is adapted to the development of medical science that is constantly progressing and practices, as well as EU regulations. The emphasis is on including donations and forming a bank. It is also new to include private clinics and private practices, so that biomedically assisted fertilisation is available as many patients who have a need, unfortunately for this type of treatment of infertility. So, as I said, private practice will participate in providing this medical service, of course, under the conditions prescribed by this law. So the same conditions, same equipment, same experts, so we're going to have unique conditions of biomedically assisted insemination. The aim of the law is to regulate the organisation system in the area of BMPO and create uniform conditions for the implementation of BMPO procedures, in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice, as well as European Union regulations, the establishment of a quality system in this field of medicine. Some of the characteristics of this law are – clear and precise inspection supervision in the area of BMPO within the biomedicine administration and a unique information system in all institutions and centres for bioaided fertilisation, as well as the medical administration. The paper is that the BMPO procedure is used in cases of medical indications to preserve fertility in minors, but also in minors. Namely, we distinguish two types of preservation of our own fertility – medical indications and elective social indications. I'll just mention an example of a medical indication like, for example, oncophertial procedures. So when it comes to cancer, there is a significant number of young people who have not started or have not yet completed their reproduction. Also, the new law prescribes a precise procedure with donated reproductive cells and stipulates that the donor has no legal or other obligation or rights to the child conceived and born to the use of donated cells or embryos. Also, the bank of donated embryos means the possibility of giving embryos, the donation process is carefully and in detail arranged, so that couples who donate embryos go to further research. Discarded embryos are given to couples who have a major problem and are unable to obtain offspring with their own reproductive cells. It means that it is a voluntary and selfless, one word - a noble act. I would say at the end of this law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry have once again shown political maturity and willingness to face and to deal successfully with all the challenges, including this, and to precisely regulate everything in the health care system that is related to this area. It is a long way that the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia has come to the proposal for this law and after a public debate has been conducted, with full respect for the proposal and suggestions. The BMPO law is a new step in the field of treatment of infartility and sterility. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia have made great progress, showing, on the one hand, understanding and empathy for not a small number of people who, in this way alone, can have offspring and, on the other hand, are willing to help and improve the conditions in which scientists and experts in this field of medicine will give their maximum, in their country and for their people. As far as the Transfusion Medicine Act is concerned, you have also very detailedly explained this law. I mention only some of the benefits of this law, such as – the uniform quality and safety of blood for the whole country, the rational consumption of blood, the principle of traceability, the rationalisation in terms of the centralized procurement of equipment and materials, namely the uniformity in these areas, the elimination of occasional blood shortages, clear inspection supervision, the unique blood register and blood components, the register of serious adverse events and serious side effects, etc., so that I can freely say that it is a revolutionary law. In Voting Day, I and my fellow Serbian Progressive Party MPs will support both draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14974	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14975	Thank you. I will continue my presentation as rapporteur of the Health and Family Committee. Respected presidents, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, the area of biomedically assisted fertilisation has already been regulated by a law called the Law on the Treatment of Infertility, the procedures of biomedically assisted insemination. The law, it can be said, was only partially in line with EU legislation. What were the shortcomings? First of all, the existing law only defined the procedures for biomedically assisted insemination. So, only the procedures were defined, and no action was defined. In fact, the conditions and methods of testing, getting, processing, freezing, defrosting, preservation, storage and distribution of reproductive cells are not defined here. This law only mentions the tax bank of reproductive cells and does not mention the conditions and above all how the bank is founded and how it works. First of all, the second law provides for a legal regulation that would entangle a bank of reproductive cells and that by the Law on Cell and Tissue Transplantation. However, this law never included banks of reproductive cells, and thus banks did not live. Another deficiency that is also characteristic is the system of issuing authorisations to perform biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures. In fact, it has been set up, in my opinion, entirely on the wrong grounds, for reasons why, above all, the permit has been granted to institutions that meet the requirements for BMPO procedures in terms of space, equipment and personnel, and not in terms of fulfilling the work we are talking about, and the activity is very complex and it is precisely the one that would have to define and effectively determine the character of an institution dealing with this problem. It is therefore necessary that such a health institution performs the work of testing, obtaining, processing, refreezing, freezing, preservation, storage and distribution of reproductive cells. I will mention several significant changes proposed by the draft law. First of all, one of the major newspapers is the establishment of unique rules in the area of out-of-body fertilisation in the territory of the entire Republic. We've had a paradox so far that health institutions have been self-determining certain parameters for which biomedically assisted insemination has been performed. In this way we had one inequality in the system, and also, in addition to inequality, I would say, a different quality of service that is provided. This way I think we're introducing a row into this area. The second, no less significant newspaper, is the introduction of private practice in this area. I am aware of the existence of an increased incidence, an increased number of people who have a fertility problem, based on my clinical practice. So these are people who are in a generic period, who have a significant problem with fertility. In this way, including private health institutions, we will first and foremost enable these people to receive a service that belongs to the law in a shorter period of time, and of course, according to the same criteria. All this together, with the expansion of the circle of faces that can participate in the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation and the possibility of giving embryos represent, I would say, revolutionary changes in our legislation. Finally, the introduction of inspection supervision, which I also consider to be very important, in this area and, more importantly, the introduction of inspection supervision for those most competent, which is the Biomedicine Authority, is an additional fact that gives confidence that this law will also give the desired results. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14976	Thank you. Maja Vidinović, she's not here. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14977	The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the proposal for a law on transfusion medicine by the government is another example of good practice and a sign that things change for the better in health. Another commendation for the admission of a large number of health workers to a working relationship indefinitely. The reason for the adoption of the new law is that the area of transfusion medicine, i.e. the area of blood preparation and blood components, as well as clinical transfusions, is based on the highest standards for providing adequate amounts of safe blood for the population of the Republic of Serbia, which are consistent with European criteria and standards. Another reason is that health institutions performing this activity provide better conditions for its implementation in line with modern achievements in this area. The lack of a valid law has inevitably led to legal basis for the adoption of a new law. In fact, the applicable law regulates only one part of transfusion medicine, and this is the preparation of blood and blood components, while the area of clinical transfusion, which implies the efficiency of blood storage and blood and blood components for therapeutic use, pretransfusion studies, autologous transfusion, haemostasis, perital studies, monitoring of blood components effects was not at all the subject of the applicable law. What is most important in the proposal for a new law is that the inclusion of clinical transfusionology ensures the direct participation of transfusiologist physicians in the treatment process of each patient, which is also a recommendation of the World Health Organization, which will reduce the number of complications and unwanted effects to a minimum. So far, the transfusiologist's practice has only supplied blood based on the need for doctors of other specialities. This achieves both a more rational and more adequate application of blood and blood elements. In order to ensure adequate amounts of safe and quality blood and blood components, it is essential to make a clear distribution of the roles of all health institutions that use blood and blood components in their work. Therefore, the new law makes it clear and unequivocal, and in accordance with EU directives, the role of any health institution that performs the preparation of blood and blood components is defined, i.e. performs the activities of planning, collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of blood and blood components. The role of hospital blood banks, which is an organisational unit of a stationary health institution, is also defined, which performs the work of blood and blood protection and blood components for therapeutic use, pretransfusion studies, care for optimal use of blood and blood components, autologous transfusions and therapeutic apheresis procedures, haemostasis, perital testing and monitoring of blood components, as well as adverse reactions. This will be better managed and better distributed. This law provides for the creation of a national blood-saving action plan, which will primarily be based on the creation of a blood needs plan in all hospital blood banks, all of this for reasons to ensure adequate amounts of blood and blood components throughout the year, so that there is no shortage of the same. The current shortcomings are also insufficient professional inspection controls in this area, as well as poor capacities to determine whether medical institutions can carry out transfusiological work defined by law. The new law regulates the supervision of its implementation in the jurisdiction of the Biomedicine Authority, which will form expert and continuous inspection supervision. Inspectors from this area will allow for the sustainability of high quality in this area. Transfusion medicine is a multidisciplinary science and daily introduction of new technologies and procedures requires constant education and health care professionals and supervisory inspectors in this area. With the new law, the safety of blood and blood components rises to a higher level by testing each tested unit of blood and blood components by means of a technique of multiplying nucleic acids, so-called ‘nucleic acid’. It's a nat technique. The introduction of the NAT method results in a shorter period of virus detection that can be transmitted by blood transfusions. In particular hepatitis B, hepatitis C, human immunodeficiency virus, i.e. HIV, palidum trepone, etc. the cause of syphilis. The current practice of infection could only be proven by Eliza's technique, which was a slower way and sometimes gave false positive results. Testing is still mandatory for BO and RHD blood cell counts, screening of irregular red blood cell antibodies by automatic means, which will ensure the savings of consumer material, i.e. the serum test, or the possibility of human error will be reduced to a minimum. This new way of testing NAT technology provides safe blood for patients, thus eliminating additional health care costs. Finally, but also most importantly, the introduction of a single information system in line with international information standards for blood transfusions and blood components, thus enabling access and transfer of data and thus facilitating the monitoring of blood trails and blood components from the donor to the patient and vice versa, as well as monitoring unwanted reactions, thus rapidly locating and correcting possible errors, including timely withdrawal of blood units and blood components from use. For the very end, I will briefly mention the desired objectives of this law, which also justify the reasons for its adoption. Number one, providing the amount of safe blood and blood components for each patient in the Republic of Serbia, rational and adequate use of blood and blood components...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14978	Excuse me, colleague. I ask MP Risticevic not to interfere with her colleague. You're extremely loud, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14979	... measures the reduction of the number of complications and adverse events by direct involvement of the physician of transfusiologists in the treatment process of each patient, continuous supply of blood and blood components, good organisational structure of institutions dealing with this medical branch, better national coordination and planning in the area of transfusionology, the establishment of a single information system in the field of transfusion medicine, professional inspection supervision in the jurisdiction of the Biomedicine Authority, and the continued education of the same and education of all healthcare professionals in this field of medicine. With this bill, the health profession has, as always, put the patient first, his effective treatment and reduction of unwanted effects and complications to the least possible extent, and to all voluntary donors of blood, both the former and future, in the name of the medical profession, a great thank you for the humanity they show in the work. After the entry into force of this law, it is necessary to bring an entire set of sublegal acts into this area, a series of regulations, as well as to provide a unique information system in this area. In voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote for both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14980	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14981	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, honourable fellow MPs, respected ministers with fellow Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrljig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. As a national MP, as I have so far, I will support the government's proposal headed by our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, as a representative of the United Peasant Party, because I think this bill is very important for our Serbia, for Serbia's future, for the birth of Serbia. By the way, I come from Srlig, as I said, from a community where there is great mortality, there are five dead on one born child. The tendency in Serbia is, and this is what our government is doing, to help the poor, to help those who need it. That's why this law on assisted insemination, and I'm going to speak in the common language of artificial insemination. I think this law is great. This law allows our people who want to have children, and they can't do it for a certain reason, to help the legal way of the state in this way, and we will normally as MPs who bring laws here to support this law. We all know that the family is the pillar of every house, the pillar of our society, the pillar of our Serbia. We all know that the future of our family is children. That's why this law is important to us. I'd like to commend you ministers and your associates for making a law that's a very good, excellent law, giving you the possibility that people who can't have children through certain aids, through everything that's been prepared now, and in the previous law it's not done, they're going to be able to do it now. We all know that undeveloped municipalities have a major problem with their lack of birth. There are a large number of people who can't have children and we're like local self-government, and I was the president of the municipality in the previous period in 2014, and we've budgeted out the funds to help certain couples have children. Some have won, but this law is much better now and it will be much easier because now private practice can do the job, which it couldn't before. That's commendable. There's a control that works in the field, sees how it works, how it works, and I think it's just as great, because control is very important to everyone. We can't let some negative things come as they may have been before. I think that all of us who are sitting here now and as MPs and you from the government have the same goal of ensuring Serbia's future. I'm undermining this law one more time, giving birth. Today is the holy day, today is the week after Easter, today is the Blessed Friday. I would now take the opportunity to congratulate all our believers on the Blessed Friday. It's a religious holiday that's also important to us. Since we all know and I want to say the same thing to everyone to be donors, to ensure someone's life, I invite all fellow MPs and all people to raise their organs and that's the same good thing. I did it in 2011. I'd like to say once again for the end, since I have no reason to talk a lot, the law is excellent, the law is great, I'd like to wish for all people, all couples who want to have children, and so far they haven't had to turn around and get even twins and triplets through artificial insemination. Once again, I would like to say that I, as a MP before the United Peasant Party, will vote in favour of this law and of all the laws proposed by the Government headed by our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. The current prime minister, and tomorrow's Serbian president, who we voted for and voted for by our country of Serbia, gave more than 55% of the citizens support to Mr. Vukic. I thank you once again for bringing such good bill proposals and calling on all fellow Members to support these bill proposals because they are excellent. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14982	The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14983	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, state secretaries, co-workers in the ministry, it is my great pleasure that we have these two laws on the agenda in the Assembly today. Not only are they important, but I think it's a big step in regulating our system and health care at all. It's a small step towards some major realizations and I'm glad we're finally discussing important things, because everyone knows that without health care, there's no progress in the state. I'm sorry that there's a growing number of colleagues here, and otherwise it's very important issues, and we're kind of inclined to always put some things where they don't belong and somehow treat them as less important. In fact, each of us finds ourselves once in our lives in a situation where he needs a blood donor, that he needs a transfusion, and it's very important that this area in our legislation is regulated. I would start with the first bill of law because the data we have, and one of the more recent ones is that nine babies are born to 1,000 people at the level of all Serbia, and unfortunately we lose 15 lives. It's no longer a secret that we're a country with problematic demographics. I'd like to stress that since the special ministry was formed at the head of the professor. Djukic Dejanovic, that we have come up with some devastating data on one side or on the other, whether it is minor terminations of pregnancy, whether it is numbers, sterility and surprising how much we as a state have a problem with sterility. This problem I have to say is seen by local self-government. They've been dealing with this artificial insemination problem for years. I come from one such local self-government and we manage to finance five couples a year and that they can somehow be realized as parents. What characterizes now this law is a positive definition of conditions and uniform rules in this area in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a positive view of moving the age limit for artificial insemination. Of course, here is not the end of this law's entry into force. A new activity is needed in this area, as well as a new regulation on internal planning and job systematization.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14984	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14985	I thank the president. Dear Representatives, Ministers with Associates, allow me to express my surprise that, together with you, there is not a minister present with no portfolio in charge of demographic and population policy. It would also do us great honor to have the future president of the Demographic Council, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, as we consider the population and demographic issue to be one of the most important issues. Just now, the minister without portfolio Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has announced that Aleksandar Vukic will chair the Demographic Council, which will have just been tasked with helping Natalie and population policy in Serbia, and it would certainly be interesting to hear what has been learned, since the taxpayers' money is being spent, what has been learned from the questionnaire. Are the polls that sought to see what kind of population measures were completed? So, I think this is a couple of excelence topics, that the government should have attended the debate and exchanged views with MPs at this very strongest capacity. Of course, I will commend the same way as most of my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments that women, not just married couples, or single partners, are being introduced into this Law on Biomedical Insemination, but women are entitled to support insemination. I stress that the concept of family has changed. So, more and more, not only in Serbia, but everywhere in the world, single parents, especially single mothers. Simply, unfortunately, this traditional concept of the family is changing and we must have not only a political but also a strategic response to that fact. Since my time is limited, I'm just going to focus on maybe some kind of question, because here it comes into my eyes, so to speak, the high discretionary powers of the minister to prescribe patterns, rules, good practice, various, so to speak, not sublegal acts, but various rules that are laid down by law, which will be governed more in detail by this area that is still under development. Also, I would also like to emphasise that the science in Serbia in this area, that this bioengineering of reproductive organs is making tremendous progress, that we are not Europe's appendix, although perhaps at a delay in adopting or proposing this law, is doing so. Let me just mention, without stating the name, but in any case commendation, the in vitro activation method of the ovaries. I'm saying that our scientists, our medical workers, experts are really following the world's trends and that in fact legislation and political will to raise the birth rate is late and is also asking some kind of question, and I think that's in Article 22, which is transparency of data. I'm afraid personal data comes under a great deal of transparency and can be misused. We are already used to many private data from private lives, including medical data, being abused even sometimes for political purposes. Anyway, I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14986	The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14987	Thank you. Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers Mr. Loncar with his associates, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today I will talk about the Bill on Biomedical Insemination, which, I remind you, entered the assembly procedure on 16 December last year, following the public debates that took place during January and February last year. I will first look back at statistics when it comes to infertility in Serbia. Unfortunately, statistics are devastating. Four hundred thousand couples in Serbia cannot have children for some reason. This shows official assessments and official statistics of health institutions in Serbia that were conducted during 2016. Statistics also say that every fourth couple in Serbia has some infertility problems, which is why the population in our country has been reduced by 800,000 people. Experts say the main reason for this, in addition to sex diseases, is frequent abortions, but also the decision of couples to decide to expand the family after 35. According to the data, infertility is equal to that of both sexes. So it's equal to infertility in men, but also in women and in fewer cases, it's a problem both partners have. From all of this, we can say that Serbia's infertility is one of the huge problems, one of the really significant problems, and we need to approach this topic in a systematic way. These data place Serbia on this negative statistics when it comes to infertility among developed Western European countries. Also, if we don't want to die out as a nation, if we want to change something in our birth policy, in our birth policy, one of the first steps towards that change is just the adoption of one of these quality and good laws. The first question that arises before us what does this law new actually bring in relation to the existing old law that was passed in 2009? The issue is also of interest to our professional public, as well as to all citizens of Serbia who are planning to expand their family in due course. The law fully adopts certain actions that have not yet existed in the old legal solution, such as testing, obtaining, processing, freezing, freezing, storage, storage, distribution of reproductive cells, zygotes and embryos, as well as imports and exports of reproductive cells at national level. Also, the new law regulates that the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation benefits in cases of the existence of medical indications to preserve fertility. So if a woman who's in the process of treatment wants to freeze her or her ovary or embryo, she can do it. This law also equalises domestic health institutions and private practices, i.e. private health institutions. For the first time in a good way, an inspection inspection is in place, the Medical Administration. Inspectors for these areas will control every procedure, every institution, whether it's private or state-owned. The government of the Republic of Serbia also adopts a plan for a network of health institutions that can carry out this action. A bank of reproductive cells, tissues and embryos is also established, and in connection with this and the Medical Administration is obliged to run a single register of biomedically assisted fertilisation procedures in the territory of all Serbia. The adoption of a new law will create conditions for the promotion of donation, which, unfortunately, was not the case with us in Serbia. The SNS parliamentary group, led by the then head of the parliamentary club, Mr Zoran Babic, decided in the previous term that all SNS MPs would sign a donor card. That's how we wanted to raise citizens' awareness of the importance of donor and donor bodies. This law also has that dose, so to speak, of promoting donation in Serbia when it comes to reproductive egg cells and embryos. When it comes to success, statistics say the following. Between 2010 and 2015, when there was a Medical Administration, there were more than 22,000 cases like this. Statistics also say that these cases were less in state practice, about 7,300, while such cases in private practice were around 14,600. The percentage of success was such that it was between 25% and 30%, which is not enough for Serbia. So we have to move on. Also, the percentage of success refers only to cases where pregnancy is recorded, and it does not tell us about newborn children, because in maternity homes, health institutions do not actually keep records when giving birth to such children from such procedures. In the end, I would like to say that the basic objective of adopting this law is actually to increase the number of procedures carried out by biomedically assisted fertilisation, but also to increase the effectiveness of these procedures. The steps that will lead us to achieve this goal through this legal solution are primarily building institutional systems, institutional capacities when it comes to such cases, but also creating conditions for couples and institutions to carry out these procedures and introduce new standards in medicine that we have missed. First of all, I think of standards in medical sciences and practices and regulations already in force in developed EU countries. Also, we haven't taken enough care of the quality of procedures in this area. So far, there has been no clear and precise inspection supervision and there has also been no single information system in the work of biomedically assisted fertilisation in all institutions and centres, as well as in the Medical Administration, which will change this legal solution. In the end, I want to say the following things. This bill of law has really thought about this area. He's really well-decomposed. He's restrictive. First of all, I am referring to a member of the 32nd Law, which provides for a ban on supplying, i.e. the donation of reproductive cells, i.e. embryos to acquire property or any other benefit, and then to ban the trafficking of reproductive cells, embryos. So he predicted all of those kinds of manipulations that we can get in practice. Also, in Article 53. The bill stipulates that in those cases embryos are allowed to be used, where there is written consent to the consent of the spouse that scientific and research work is allowed. The same is true when it comes to reproductive cells that can be used in scientific research, if there is written consent from the consent of the person whose reproductive cells are. By introducing enhanced supervision, I would like to point out once again, and the enhanced supervision that will be carried out by the Biomedicine Administration through clear and precise inspection supervision of the work of health institutions, whether state or private, in a precise way will solve all the inaccuracies, ambiguities and legal gaps that existed in the old legal proposal. In all of this, I call on all my fellow Members and fellow MPs, regardless of which political parties, to support this excellent law, to create conditions in Serbia for increasing the birth rate, i.e. increasing the number of newborn children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14988	The word has Srdjan Nogo. He's not here. The word is Milovan Krikapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14989	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, the Honorable Fellows and colleagues, yesterday, we had a lot to discuss on the Health and Family Committee on these laws, so today I will be very brief, because I think it is quite said what this new law of our health and at all what our people and our countries are getting. Let me just say, for example, that the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act defines the exact set of procedures and conditions for involving infertile couples in the biomedically assisted fertilisation process, as well as the conditions which are defined professional institutions and where they can deal with the same. Our health care really hasn't made so much progress lately, but I can say the progress, I express my personal opinion, and I share other colleagues, because as of June, as far as the first law is concerned, in 2016, a third attempt on the cost of RFO is being financed. As one colleague said earlier, the age limit has been moved from 40 to 42 years to finance from the RFZO budget in the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation. As far as the Transfusion Medicine Act is concerned, this law regulates the way, procedure, conditions... I'm sorry, there's only one thing I had to say, which is that in this Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination, I have to say, for the first time, the provisions on inspection control have been fully specified, which is very important to me personally. As far as the Transfusion Medicine Act is concerned, this law regulates the way, procedure, conditions, organisations and action of transfusion medicine, the supervision of the implementation of this law and the conduct of transfusion medicine on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this area of medicine, clear legislation has been established at different levels of organisational structure, which certainly contributes to the proper implementation of health measures, as well as to maintaining the health of citizens. Now I'm going to say this, in this country, everyone is doing their job in their own area. Why did I say this? This is what I said that individuals wanted to put in and use every opportunity to put in a policy that doesn't belong to this subject today. That's what two or three colleagues tried to do. However, I can only say that our health care really, in January of the month came out a ranking list, in fact a index on the health consumer index, where we received 116 points more for 2015. So, in 2016 compared to 2015, 116 points of Serbia's health received more than 35 rated countries in the 24th place, meaning that there are below us and EU member states, such as Hungary, Latvia, Greece, Lithuania, and that I do not list any further countries. There you go, people, how much politics interferes with our health care. So everyone in this country does their job, including health care, because health and education are two branches without which one society can't move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14990	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14991	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, this law as a proposal tries to provide answers to some of the challenges brought by modern technologies. He fairly emerges from the domain of the health system and enters the domain of family law, understanding the role of family and parenting itself. It opens up some very important issues in an era where a very recent boom is expected and an increase in the number of children you start biomedically assisted insemination. In the draft text of the law and in today's debate, two issues were essentially imposed. One is surrogate motherhood, and the other is the right donor of reproductive cells to be anonymous, which stands contrary to the rights of a child conceived by the biomedically assisted fertilisation procedure to learn its genetic origin. It is common to both of these issues that a restrictive solution has been offered, which in some ways sends a message that the state is unable to regulate the challenges that new scientific and technological achievements put before us at this point. We understand that surrogate motherhood in the bill is forbidden, because at this point, she did not want to go deeper into the issue of family law and ask his basic question on which the mother of the child was the only woman who brought the child to birth. In this way, for biomedically assisted fertilisation, those whose parenting is the only solution will be denied. This approach can also be criticised from the point of view of constitutionality, it can be seen as unconstitutional, because male infertility is treated with all medically available methods, and this method, when it comes to female infertility, will remain beyond the limits of positive law and criminal responsibility. For example, a woman who is able to produce an egg cell, but cannot carry out pregnancy, will be deprived of this kind of help. When it comes to the second question, it is assumed that the legislator decided to protect the anonymity of the donors of reproductive cells, wanting to promote their donation in fact, counting that the donor would be less if they were not sure that their anonymity was guaranteed and feared possible legal consequences for themselves and their family later in life. So I'm going to say that it's a shame that just these days when these two laws are on the agenda we in public don't have a quality public debate, especially in the media, where citizens would be offered information based on which they could competently take views on such important issues. Because if we knew, for example, that the person who donated the reproductive cells had no right or obligation to the child they were conceived, we might be more willing to donate and not insist so much on their own anonymity. In this way, citizens may find out that those who donated reproductive cells have no right to establish their parenting procedure at all under the law. Unfortunately, the legislator put the donor's right to anonymity ahead of the child's right to know his genetic origin. The reasons why it is necessary to enable a child to learn their origins are not only medical, they are both both legal and psychological. In the legal domain, according to the Convention on Human Rights, which Serbia has ratified, the child has the right to know his origin as much as possible. The bill makes getting this kind of information virtually impossible. Limiting the right to medically justified reasons is also against the constitution because the Constitution of Serbia in article 64 guarantees the right of the child to know his origin and therefore every child has the right to know who his parents are. The constitution allows some rights to be legally restricted, but not entirely but to the extent that they do not enter into the very essence of these rights. Allowing a child to learn his origins only in an unwanted case of medical need, so emergency, is essentially deprivement of that right of complete essence. So I would ask the constitutionality of such a legal solution. In addition, knowledge that such data are existing, and due to the traceability that the law provides, they will be existing, but legally unavailable in children you start biomedically assisted by the infertility of donated genetic material, the inability to obtain such data can be a cause of stress, confusion and feelings of marginalization, social exclusion and frustration. Ninety percent of these people stop showing these symptoms the moment they get information about their genetic origin and reach their genetic parents. The example of Sweden, which long ago changed the rule of guaranteed anonymity of donors of reproductive cells, where this legal change did not lead to the fall of donations but only changed the structure of donors, where instead of younger single men in the donations began to dominate older married men, says that the protection of donor anonymity is not necessarily a prerequisite for promoting the donation of reproductive material. In addition, the rights of reproductive cell donors would not be compromised because, in addition to the provisions of Family Law and Article 40, it is prescribed that the donor has absolutely no legal or other obligation, as well as the right to the child, so that the message is that we should essentially lead an active public debate, that citizens can competently conclude their views rather than rush to restrictive solutions in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14992	Thank you. Dear MPs, I am obliged to inform you that from this moment on, there is no more broadcasting of direct transmissions due to the transfer of cups of the best rowers of Belgrade high school, and after that will be broadcast a film about Jasenovac, so we no longer have a transmission from this moment on. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14993	Just two things to clarify. Here it has been mentioned several times, since 16 December in the Assembly, the public debate was in January and February, there was absolutely no obstacle to anyone being involved, going to public debate or anything else. So much for the terms that are. Neither the law was passed by an emergency procedure, nor was anyone prevented from participating in all this. What you're saying about the law in Article 2, is absolutely consistent with Family Law and Family Rights. Check it out, there are things that have to be matched.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14994	Thank you. The word is Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14995	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the esteemed Mr. Minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, out-of-body fertilization procedures are based primarily on improving the natural reproductive potential of couples, and are aimed at making contact with ova and spermatozoids, thereby reducing the way to their merger or bringing them into direct contact. The essence of all procedures of VTO is to cause ovulation and addition of prepared seed to the greater or smaller proximity of the ovulation cell in the body, that is, so-called ovulation. artificial, or intrauterine insemination or insemination outside the woman, i.e. in vitro insemination. The insemination as an intervention began to be applied in the 40s in the last century, and it is the taking of male seed and its artificial introduction into the cervix canal, into the womb or uterus cavity. Insemination can be performed spontaneously during a natural cycle, an expected ovulation cycle, luteinizing hormone determination, can be produced with ovulation stimulation at a time of ovulation expected with luteinizing hormone levels and ovulation with medications and prior preparation of seeds in order to achieve maximum fertility potential of the partner. The timing of insemination is very important because it is done immediately before or immediately after ovulation, and this is determined by ultrasound or luteinizing hormone levels. It is a simple intervention that lasts from five to ten minutes, where one to 1.5 ml of previously prepared seed is introduced into the womb, after which the woman lies for a certain time and after two weeks is determined by the blood test whether or not she has remained pregnant. The insemination itself in the treatment of infertility is done three to four times and then couples turn to out-of-body fertilization. I note that out-of-body fertilisation is conducted only if all other possibilities of conception and treatment of sterility have been used. It is the crown of infertility, and for many couples and the only way to achieve parenthood. There are two basic processes in out-of-body fertilisation, a classic method, i.e. in-vitro fertilisation, and microfertilisation. In the case of classical VTO, and by in-vitro method, egg cells are filled with a higher number of quality spermatozoids and thus insemination is performed. It is possible to determine whether fertilisation occurred after 18 to 24 hours. Only if the option of IVF is minimal is microfertilisation, which increases the chances of couples involved in the process of achieving as parents. As for the inability to conceive, it exists in men because of a reduced number of moving sperm, due to poor quality, poor penetration, etc., so exists in women. If a man is aspermic, i.e. there is a total lack of spermtozoid in the ejaculate, an aspirational biopsy of testicles is performed. Pre-cleaned grape egg cells are brought into the vicinity of the sperm wall and fertilisation is done in this way. Heching is a new method that can improve the chances of out-of-body fertilisation, which enables the egg cells to easily penetrate the esophagus around it and facilitates embryo release. Heching only gives up if there's one embryo. This method is especially used in late reproductive years in older than 37 years of age, in women who have exhausted ovaries and those who have had more failed attempts at out-of-body fertilisation, so that heching increases the chance of pregnancy by 20%. The embryotransfer can be done after 30 hours of intervention, so this is another way of insemination. In order to reduce the reference to extraterrestrial fertilisation, there is also a very significant place of screening, i.e. a regular preventive examination of the cervix of the uterus. It is known that this cancer occurs most often in women of younger age who have not been achieved very often as mothers, and therefore it is very important that all women leave regularly, at least once a year, for a checkup of gynecologists, to be done every time to delete Papanicola, if necessary, a colpsoscopic test. Out-of-body fertilization is carried out both in state and private hospitals. For now, with 11 health institutions, the VTO has been contracted because there is a very long waiting list in state hospitals. Despite the shift of the VTO limit to 42 years of age, young people do not often resort to this way of fertilisation. Many local self-governments, including Somborska, single out a part of the budget for couples already on VTO, but according to the law, they no longer have the right to do so. The limit for this is 45 years, so last year the Somborian local self-government singled out a million dinars for three couples older than 42 and younger than 45 and one had conceptions and they expect twins, and these other two couples are in the process of preparing for out-of-body fertilisation. In the opinion of the Batut Institute, it is very justified to agree on 3,300 to 4,300 treatment services with private health institutions because the capacity in five state hospitals is only 1,700 procedures. So this year the contract with 11 private clinics has already been concluded, and so it is ensured that 3,050 couples begin treatment for infertility. The private institution has sent 1,060 couples to date, 745 of which completed the out-of-body fertilisation process and 70 couples are in the biomedically assisted fertilisation process, while 245 for some reason is not yet included in the procedure. As far as state institutions are concerned, 234 women got pregnant last year and expect to recover, and in private it was 143. By amending a regulation that entered into force on 25 June last year, insured persons can exercise the right to a third attempt to treat infertility by biomedically assisted fertilisation on the burden of compulsory health insurance funds. During last year in the area of Sombor branch on the form, it is the standard OLK 11 form, i.e. the consent of the medical commission for the initiation of out-of-body fertilisation decided 69 couples, and 53 couples are already in the process. The difference is that some couples have either given up because there is a need to supplement the findings that are quite complex and concern both male and female. In the first three months of this year, 22 couples await the decision of the medical committee for reference, and 31 are in the out-of-body fertilisation process. The OLK 11 form has the importance of a three-month duration and it can be published multiple times. Each Friday, branches are sent to the Republic Health Insurance Office a tabular representation of all the insured persons to whom this form has been issued, and this regulation has amended a member to whom a woman who already has offspring can request inclusion in the new marriage community if her partner does not have children. Despite everything that the state is trying to increase the birth rate and natural growth in Serbia through these procedures, the percentage of the success of out-of-body fertilisation is 33%. In addition to this, for example, a small percentage of conception is allowed for families to enjoy parenting and for women to come true as mothers. In voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14996	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14997	Here, at first I would point to what's common to both of the bill's proposals. It's the same constitutional basis, it's Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I must say, unlike the usual laws on the agenda, these two laws fall within the so-called group. Specific laws which, in addition to the constitutional basis and which have a legal basis, are laid down in Article 224(2). The Law on Health Protection, so I also quote a little, which requires that the way, procedure and conditions of organ, tissue and cell fertilisation as parts of the human body, i.e. the way in which infertility is treated by biomedically assisted fertilisation are governed by a special law. Practically, this first law has its constitutional and legal basis. I must draw the attention of 250 MPs and all those who come as representatives of the government and the trustees of one government come here to deal with politics, not the profession. The doctor, as an MP, as a doctor as a representative of the government when he deals with the profession in a medical center office. A lawyer when he comes as an MP, he deals with politics here, and a lawyer in office and in court. And these are regulations that form the legal-political system of the Republic of Serbia, and here it is not a profession. The profession is what your protocols, procedures, procedures, reports, analysis of how you establish a diagnosis and what is prescribed therapy is a profession. These professional medical issues do not regulate these two laws. And once that's done, it also applies to these regulations, it also applies to regulations about forests, water, some technical standards. The waist isn't here, there's the lay parliament here, and it's good that it's lay, because the laymen can hit the topic politically and send a clear message about what it's all about. If we've mastered this, and I've only tried to quote what's in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in our Rules of Procedure, then let's move on. You see, you say in your explanation of this first law that the Law on the Treatment of Infertility is now in force by the procedures of biomedically assisted insemination, the Law was passed in 2009. As you can see in the title of the law that is now in force is exactly that sentence of the Health Protection Act. You want to get it out of the legal-political system of the Republic of Serbia when you vote this bill and become law and it will have the title – the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act. The treatment's lost, the treatment's lost. The health care law is in the function of treating and ensuring the health of the nation. Let's move on, what you wrote here. Two, what are the objectives of law-making? The main goal of the adoption of a new law on biomedical assisted fertilisation is, which is the goal, that is the last point of resistance to be won, to be achieved. How did you define that goal and the special point? I quote - increase in BMPO procedures and increase in BMPO performance, treatment lost. You are interested in technology, you are interested in technology, you are interested in supervision, you are interested in records and you are interested in reporting to the European Commission and the European Union. That's what you're interested in. And here all the MPs have told one that they think we need a law that needs to help treat and increase the birth rate. And that's that gap we're in. You have some set goals that you want to achieve, those goals you hide with a nice lullaby that is acceptable, no one has rebelled against it and you're in the middle of it. Someone noticed who's seriously involved in politics, someone who recognizes good wishes in this, he says, well, I have the right to have good wishes to believe in something nice. So, everyone's right, and did we solve the problem? Well, you're saying yourself that the problem is insecure to these assets that have been used since 2009, and in a special way you associate that even after this law, it won't work out. Well, I have to explain something that's alphabet or alphabet to this job we're dealing with. People have an election will, but they also make an election decision and make a majority. The majority have been given the right of citizens to solve problems, those who do not have a majority of them are forbidden to solve problems. They're obliged to criticize us, to watch where you're wrong, to point you to failures, to influence you to correct something and to make it right by the rules of the profession and the law. What do you say? I'm also reading your explanation, and the minister read it in his own way, so probably according to the style of reading, no one paid attention. But you say that the existing law on the treatment of infertility is bad, it says – poorly defined conditions, and then in second paragraph, it says – namely, the existing law misrepresented the conditions and so on, etc. You're criticizing a regulation that's in effect. But I have to tell you in 2009, in those benches where you are, they were also representatives of the government at the time, they held that law in the form of a proposal, and they showed us the stamps from behind, they showed us sentences, paragraphs where the EU says it's the best regulation, the better one can't exist, in line with all their directives, and you say -- the law that was passed in 2009 is bad. In that other law, you do not point out that attitude in this way, but you say, "It is the end of its term." In six years he's shown himself, it's the first stage, now we're going with a new law, it's another stage. Please, that's all you wrote. You're behind those words. I'm just reminding you what you wrote. I'm just reminding you that all of this that you've written is significantly falling away from the discussion of all the MPs here. Does anyone like who the political party is, it doesn't matter at all, but everyone in these two laws recognized something that is humane, high moral, in function of Natalie, in function of pleasure and family and marriage, and everything that we all have to advocate anyway? But I'm warning you, what we all want, it's not here. Please, with whom did you actually export and import into this bill? Exports and imports are classic foreign trade transactions. This is regulated by the Foreign Trade Act. This law regulates both imports and exports and goods and seeds and tractors, regulates imports and exports of services. There's something here that's tissue, cells, it's from the point of view of that law, the subject of trade, the subject of traffic. And you're getting into this law and you're saying it's a medical job, too. It's not a medical job. It's a business of foreign trade, and it's over. You must not enter a special law into anything regulated by general regulations, you must not. Keep going. I'm going to skip all of your criticisms at the expense of the existing law. He says, under the existing law, there's no possibility of freezing egg cells, so it's bad about inspection supervision, so on and so forth. But, please, let's just explain some things. There is great respect in this society for something called a white coat. Why? Because it's a little foggy with some enigma. He trusts the doctors. People when they're sick go to the doctor, ask for help, seek salvation, choose no means, etc. When it comes to health records, when it comes to some things that are done in health care, and in some ways they have something to do with this bill, we here in the procedure need to get a law to solve the issue of replaced and missing babies. It was in medical facilities. Please, neither the prosecution, nor the health care, nor the police, nor any government authority has been able to resolve the situation. Please, it's a baby, it's a child. What's the subject of this first law, if we treat it like a slave, is incomparably less and easier to make a kind of manipulation. If anyone wants it, if anyone doesn't want it, I'm not talking about it. Whoever wants manipulation, they should be responsible for it. Are any unwanted manipulations possible? Perhaps unwanted manipulations are also possible. Not only with what's the subject of this law, but with all the slaves it's possible. Position trade, trade influence, all that's possible. No matter how many states she prescribes, she introduces inspections to introduce criminal provisions, she hires me not to know what units, etc., and so on, no state has been able to say that she's 100% regulated it. Believe me, people, the large number of laws that are passed in this assembly here may essentially not be bad regulations, but the application of these regulations is something that is devastating, because if this application of the rules were in the way that it is prescribed, we probably wouldn't have this kind of dissatisfaction and open testimony that happens in practice. I'm not talking specifically about these two areas, that you don't get me wrong, but you know in all public opinion studies how military, police, health, education is positioned. You've already heard the perception of citizens as audiences and citizens as patients. It's all familiar, it's all recognized. Furthermore, I must draw your attention that you wrote, you wrote, says there is a commitment to EU directives, and we are not EU members, you know, says – the Republic of Serbia that all regulations in the field of biomedicine are fully in line with EU directives. The health ministry is through the EU project, so something there, they paid for this, selected an EU biomedicine expert. Look, you chose an expert in biomedicine. For what? For writing regulations, probably. I can understand that you are referring to some medical professional expert who conveys modern knowledge from this area, but calling on an EU official to be an expert on this area, sorry, please, it does not exist. I hear here, people say, this regulation you're proposing is extremely professional. Directive 2004, the European Parliament, since 31 March 2004, on the establishment of standards of quality and security for donation, acquisition, testing, processing, conservation, storage, etc., published in the 2004 Official Journal of the EU. It's not a professional regulation. It's not a regulation of the profession. It's a regulation of something that looks like our parliament. Our Parliament does not issue any professional regulations. The Minister, in particular health, and other ministers, very rarely bring sublaws that are of exceptional professional character, are already doing so by special groups, special associations etc., etc. This isn't a professional regulation. This is a political regulation. Please, this 2004 regulation, someone before you wrote that it was already in the existing law. Then you have a directive of the Commission of February 2006, on the implementation of the Directive, etc., etc. Well, then the 2006 directive. We are not EU members. I'll give you the next example right away. Yesterday, the National Assembly voted here and passed the Law confirming the Convention on the European Forest Institute. There is no call for the EU anywhere, it is said – this is all a European institution. So there are such professional all European institutions, not only EU-sponsored institutions. The European Union is 28.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14998	They should take an oath from the MPs. We're looking for more than three parliamentary groups. Dear MPs, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People's Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to assign MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27, paragraph 5. Law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Jelisaveti Veljkovic and Veri Jovanovic elected from the Electoral List Aleksandar Vukic Serbia wins, Dusan Milisavljevic selected the Electoral List for the Righteous Serbia DS, Filip Stojanovic elected from the Election List by Dr Vojislav Seselj SRS. On the basis of the RIK decision, the report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, I note the confirmation of the mandate of the MPs Jelisaveta Veljkovic, Veri Jovanovic, Dusan Milisavljevic and Filip Stojanovic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election and please prepare to take the oath, which you have already done. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MPs to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Allow me to wish on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia all of you successful joint work in the current term of office. We're going back to work. I ask Ambassador Zoran Krasic to continue where he left off.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u14999	Okay, we can move on. If I have already started with these directives, then, one, two, three directives, four, five, six, one decision from 2010, please, no expert document in these decisions and in these directives is a profession, there is no such thing as what MP Babić was talking about earlier. There are no legal procedures that need to be provided and something to guarantee. There's our problem. That's what I have to tell you. We've submitted a few amendments just to draw attention to what needs to be taken care of. Will you look at it the way we suggested, I don't know. I'm reading your explanation. Have the sources of EU law previously been translated into Serbian? No, they're not. Is the law translated into some official EU language? You translated it into English. In December 2015, the European Commission told you that this officer of theirs, who came to help you, did a good job. There's the biggest problem. That's what they said about that 2009 law that you're now criticizing that nothing's wrong. When it comes to the EU, it always opens up the topic at which point we are ready and able to say that what is their standard is wrong, because for the past 17 years we have not yet come to the situation to say that their standards are good. Why didn't we say so? People, we've been changing 250 laws for 16 years every year. There is only 250 laws – about borrowing, about this, about how to ruin education, how to destroy the judiciary, how to ruin this. We always refer to their standards. Every next call says: "It was not good." I ask you, in how many years will another group come and say that this law is no good? I wouldn't be surprised if it was in a few months. Why? You got consent in 2015. We are in 2017. Who knows what they've changed there in their internal regulations. That's a big problem. The problem is that if you follow the profession, you follow the medical professional profession, but the medical profession is not in the EU directives. It is probably located with the World Health Organization and international organisations dealing professionally with this problem. So no wonder you say you're unhappy with the results of professional work in this area, I have to tell you, no matter what law. You can't solve this problem with this bill. In several places we have submitted amendments where we wanted to draw your attention that it is not good to make a kind of monopoly in this area. Why? Because by the law of 2009, this has gone quite liberally, and all of our health regulations speak about the equality of all the forms of property in which it is carried out, let's say, medical or medical activity. You see, with this transfusion law, you've changed your name. It's not an act anymore. It's medicine. Why? What happened to interpret Article 244 in this way? Health care laws, in a completely different way? I don't know, Vice President, since I've been interrupted, how much time do I have left, not to go too far, because some are complaining.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15000	About six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15001	All right, then tell them not to rip too much. Next, I don't like the health situation. Now I'm going to give you some concrete examples. I think there's a lot of inconsistencies. I don't blame the ministers, let's be clear right now. Ministers change from government to government, but those professional services remain. These professional services should be top professionals who are also able to tell one of the ministers who wants to do something besides some professions and tell them – can't, simply, simply can't. You see, in the field of health we have different strategies, so we have a strategy to prevent drug abuse, it's not just health care, I have to distract you, it's a broader, more widely observed sociological phenomenon and certainly a political topic, from 2014 to 2021. Please, a strategy to prevent drug abuse, so drugs can only be misused, and let's just say, when it comes to tobacco, then you have... Yesterday, a law was passed, a protocol on the elimination of illegal trade was confirmed. Why don't you say - a strategy on the elimination of illegal drug trafficking. Who taught you how to make these beautiful finesse? Furthermore, in your regulations or plans or professional analyses you can read anything and everything. I see it logically, I don't view it as a representative of your profession, I don't know that, but I'm logically looking at what you wrote. What you wrote must be co-existent, logically acceptable, understandable, that it has some legality. You don't have it in your act. Please, at prevention, you say, fight smoking, hypertension, hyperlosterolemia, alcohol, obesity, malnutrition and physical inactivity. If you went under the ban to prevent tobacco, you will, by that logic, ban people and eat to prevent obesity. That's amazing what you're doing. Further, you have chronic non-infectious diseases, cardiovascular, malignant, respiratory diseases, diabetes and this musculoskeletal disease, etc. You're simply writing something there, probably it has some medical justification, but we didn't get an act on how to improve ethnicity in Serbia. For us, the starting point for the bill should be an analysis of what the causes are, so we have learned from you doctors that exchange – better to prevent than treat, and you are offering us a law that only has a word in a few provisions – the treatment of birth, a few provisions that can be preventable, and this second, this is all, the retail commercial business. It's all commercial business. We cannot, by commercial approach, treat the social problem – natality. What's the cause? Where are those shows? When to marry, when to be born, how to live, rightly, etc. And so on? It's not that, but it's just that, you know, marriage comes after 30 years, you get sick of a marriage partner, whether they want to, whether they don't want a child, it's a big deal, there's a family they want, they can't, they need to get into this situation. We're pushing for this to be free. Why? Because Natalie's a social problem and it's normal to be free. But before entering an out-of-body insemination programme, a married couple should separate 1,000 euros for some analyses not covered by this programme. Mr. Seselj just talked about it, you skipped over it. We have a few colleagues here who are in that program and who say – aman the ministers what you're talking about, it's not true. Based on personal experience, some people talk about what they've been through. And one analysis, and another analysis, and this analysis went beyond the time limit, and whether they were supposed to be in sterile conditions, and whether it was this, and whether it was that, and whether we cured these initial diseases, we did not cure the initial diseases. And you say it coolly, no, that's not true. I'm embarrassed, why should I mention names, etc. But people talk completely different. It's a completely different story. You've done this job, working for the bank in a way that you've monopolized and concentrated to be in that bank of yours. It will likely be just one health institution from that activity in the state property. I think it's a bad solution. I think that's a bad solution. We wrote in the amendment what the reasons were. We didn't write the reasons, believe me. The reason we submitted the amendment was written by people from your profession dealing with these problems specifically. And today they're dealing with these problems. We've tried to write amendments that will show the real problems of people who deal with this work. Is it over?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15002	You've got 30 seconds left. Go ahead. Thank you very much. Next speaker, Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15003	Thank you. Sometimes it's good when a man has less time, then he has to be specific, I have less than four minutes, and I'll try to use a few specific questions and one principle suggestion. This topic is otherwise important and it raises many philosophical and ethical issues that we cannot enter now, although they are important and concern, of course, directly or indirectly, the matter of these laws. I'm glad, no matter what opposition MP I like to criticise the government, which I do very often, because I'm not satisfied with how the government works or how the ministry works, but when I consulted people and read this law, I think these laws are a good basis and that's why I've made my point. I have pleaded undetermined on the issue of voting, and I think my position towards this law will be positive, according to the other one, negative when the time comes. What's the matter with me in principle with this law that might be able to fix the amendments? It's that he's partially undefined, and in part he gives over-authorization to the minister. You're probably aware of that. Where it is not clear, where there was no space or time for the matter to be fully specified and done, then it is said that it will be handled by sublegal acts or transferred to the power of the minister. I don't think it's necessarily bad, just making it a burden, transferring to your shoulders a great deal of responsibility. First, to commend what I think is commendable. It is a brief and clear wording in the law that says, Article 309 of the blood component must not be imported or exported from the Republic of Serbia. A brief and clear formulation. What bothers me is that in the second law on biomedical assisted fertilisation, there is no such clear and precise member. When it comes to blood and blood components, it stands, bans exports and imports of components, when it comes to genetic material and biological components, I did not find it that way and I would like to hear an explanation. A team before, that it's a sophisticated product so I understand, but I think that this people and this country have enough genetic material and that it doesn't need to open up the market or the possibility of a market for the import and export of that biological material. Not because of some genetic purity that doesn't exist and I don't believe in, but simply to reduce the possibility of abuse in that direction. The other thing I want to praise is the ban, although I see it was controversial with some MPs, the ban on surrogate motherhood, which is good. I see that's where the intention wasn't to put everything on the market. This neo-oliberal octopus, a neoliberal globalisation octopus that drains resources, primarily economic and economic resources, and then natural resources across the planet and especially countries like Serbia, has now focused on these biological resources, and I think this should be stopped. The last and concrete question concerns this inspectorate, which has been disputed by other colleagues. A very clear question – how much you're aproximately calculating resources and people, you don't have to go into detail, but whether it's a one-digit, two-digit or three-digit number of these inspectors that are scheduled for these jobs. I think it's unnecessary multiplying human and spending money and plus opening space to end up with these notes or like these presidents of home councils or some other, communal cops, that it only serves as some kind of auxiliary means of hiring loyal personnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15004	Thank you. Minister Zlatibor Lončar has the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15005	Let me get one thing straight. I don't think there's any reason to repeat it anymore. Acte, I have not passed this bill, nor will I bring these sublegal acts, they are brought by the profession. Let me get this straight. I'm not from this area and I can't know, no matter how hard they try, as people who do and who follow. Once again, the law can't cover everything. This particular law is like a living organism that is constantly changing. That's the only reason you're going to those acts. Inspectors, no new. It's a single-digit number of people who already work at the Administration. They're not making any new inspections, it's from people who are already working and who understand that. You can't do that, for someone to be an inspector he must have a huge experience. If you start working now, you can't make an inspector like that in ten years. I'm sorry, and I didn't mean to, see if anyone would pay attention, if you'd heard one thing. The only information we've got so far and we could have -- how many initial pregnancies were reportedly, which is, to remind myself, that I don't explain to people and that I'm not burdening myself, people who have problems, one part of that pregnancy is biological pregnancy, because of the drugs, because of everything, and that's the first result you get when you go to first control after an out-of-body insemination. And I don't know if you noticed. We never heard of how many babies were born or what we gave the money for. Now, that's the problem, that no one wanted to go in there and question it all the way, let's see. So what I'm saying is, the last one, the third one or the fifth one, it worked, and until then, we don't even know what it was. He could do whatever he wanted and whatever he wanted. We have as statistics, installed statistics as in European standards, and that's it -- biological pregnancy, and how much of that pregnancy went to the end, and how much money went, and what we could do for it, no one paid attention to it. If only someone had asked a question, and I didn't say it at first -- stop, people, how many babies were born? Well, there's no such thing as that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15006	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15007	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, Honored Minister Loncaru, Honored Professor Lekic, Honored Guests from the Ministry, today in the Serbian Parliament, the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination, which regulates the way, procedure, conditions and organisation of the activity of biomedical assisted fertilisation, the type of biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures, the exercise of the right to biomedical assisted fertilisation, as well as the supervision of the implementation of this law. As we know, infertility is a common problem in the population. According to the World Health Organization, the incidence of infertility is about 16.7%, while the incidence of infertility is about 15%. Infertility is not only an individual problem, but also a social problem, which could endanger the psychological harmony of marriage, affect sexual life and affect the social environment. The inability to give birth is seen as a denial of fundamental rights, injustice and disappointment. Many couples without children have psychological, family and social problems, and infertility testing and treatment also pose additional problems in terms of financial burdens, both for the family and for society in general. First of all, let us define some concepts, although it may not be necessary, because in the previous days I have convinced myself that most MPs show enviable "medical knowledge" of what is a disease, what is health, what is normal and what is pathological, and I was particularly fascinated by the etiopathogenesis of visual hallucinations. That is why I would agree in part with a national MP that a preventive medical neuropsychiatric examination should be carried out, but I am afraid that this would not work out for individual MPs. But let's go back to what we termologically differ in this law - infertility, fertility, sterility and fecondidet. Infertility or infertility or reduced fertility is defined as a condition where pregnancy does not occur after one year of regular sexual relations without the use of contraceptives. Infertility or infertility is not ireversible, i.e. It's not definitely, and it's being treated. Infertility can be primary and secondary. Primary infertility implies a woman never got pregnant. Secondary infertility implies that conception does not occur after previous pregnancy, childbirth, abortion, non-material pregnancy. Infertile, therefore, are women who are able to become pregnant, but are unable to carry out their pregnancy. That's very important for later, which we'll see in the law. Fertility implies the possibility of becoming pregnant and giving birth over a period of up to one year. On average, 80 to 84% of couples should become pregnant after 12 months, with regular sexual relations, without the use of contraceptives. In addition, about 8 to 10 couples of pregnancy are achieved during the second year of marriage and another percent during the third year of marriage. This is very important. Sterility implies inability to become pregnant as irreversible i.e. Definitely state-of-the-art. Therefore, the Messengers of the people, the sterility is not healed, but infertility is healed. Fecondity refers to the probability of a pregnancy in each cycle. It is believed that by cycle, the chance for pregnancy is 25 to 30%, provided that both partners are within normal limits. The area of biomedically assisted fertilisation has so far been governed by the Law on the Treatment of Infertility, the procedures of biomedically assisted fertilisation since 2009, as well as by sublegal acts adopted under the law. This law is partly in line with European legislation and following a period of application of this law for six years, the following certain weaknesses have been identified, saying that the applicable Law governing the treatment of infertility with the procedures of biomedical assisted fertilisation did not recognise the importance of defining and regulating the activity of biomedical assisted fertilisation, as well as the conditions under which this activity can be carried out, which include testing, getting, freezing, freezing, freezing, storage, storage and distribution of reproductive cells, zygots and embryos, as well as imports, or exporting reproductive cells, which led to biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures in health institutions, but without defined conditions at national level, and each of its health institutions being defined and defined. What is characteristic of this law is the systematicity and accuracy of its writing. In order to understand the law, and therefore to discuss it in the Serbian Assembly, and the fact is that all MPs do not have certain expertise, Article 3 sets out the definition, i.e. the meaning of certain professional terms, and in order to fully harmonise domestic law in the area under European Union law. Also, this law has extended the definition of biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures, which it implements with the applicable law in accordance with the modern standards of biomedical science in case of infertility, while the new law is extended, and this is very important, and in cases of the existence of medical indications for the preservation of fertility. So, I'm undermining -- preserving fertility. The new law and private practice shall take part in the provision of health care services of this type, provided that it fulfils the prescribed conditions of the law. This calls for the need to engage a number of healthcare professionals involved in this problem and to establish a number of centres for biomedical assisted fertilisation. In a clear way, supervision of the implementation of this law, which remained in the jurisdiction of the Biomedicine Authority, has been regulated, with due regard to the precise inspection of the work of the health institutions carrying out this work. The adoption of this law will create conditions for promoting donation and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of donation. I will remind you again that the MPs of the SNS, in the previous tenth term, have all signed donor cards. To conclude, the treatment of infertility goes beyond nobleness, humanity, and the limit of classical medicine. While classical medicine heals the sick, improves his health and enables him to live quality life, treating infertility allows him to live through his offspring and when classical medicine exhausts all his opportunities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15008	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. He's not there. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15009	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, MPs, ministers and other members of the ministry, I would like first of all to commend, of course, this law that advances in a single domain of things concerning improving the fertility of people who cannot have children. I'd like to focus my speech on two things. So it's about surrogate motherhood that is again forbidden by this law and it's about the anonymity of donors, or those who want to give reproductive cells. Let's first distinguish between two things that are important, because they often interfere in the discussion. So there's commercial surrogate motherhood and there's surrogate motherhood from altruism. So here I'm only talking about this second one, the surrogate of motherhood from altruistic initiatives. So, not about surrogate motherhood being charged or getting some kind of cash or some other fee. You mentioned, Minister, that there is some sort of trend in the EU to go against it. You mentioned there was a European Parliament report. In fact, it is true, the European Parliament's 2014 report on the situation of human rights came out in 2015. Therefore, surrogate motherhood is being discussed in the European Parliament in the context of respect for human rights and a paragraph relating to surrogate motherhood concerns commercial surrogate motherhood. That is what the European Parliament condemns. Otherwise, there are EU countries, except Greece, the Netherlands, Belgium are also countries where surrogate motherhood is allowed from altruistic initiatives. Some other countries are Australia, Canada, Great Britain, New Zealand. For example, in the Czech Republic, the whole thing is not regulated at all legally, the Czech Republic is also an EU member, not regulated legally, so it is believed that surrogate motherhood is allowed for altruistic reasons. I want to ask you one thing. If you've really accepted this whole law to help people who can't have children for the reasons of population policy, since you've explained it, then why are you preventing surrogate motherhood? Well, that's another step in which this population policy can be further strengthened. So, people who can't have children, and they can agree with someone to carry out a pregnancy to the end, they'd get a few more kids that you could take under population policy. I'll remind you of article 63. The constitution that says - everyone has the right to freely decide on the birth of children and the Republic of Serbia encourages parents to decide on the birth of children and help them do so. So, imagine this, if me and my wife couldn't have kids, find someone who could help us out for altruistic reasons, someone could donate reproductive cells, would you help us finish the whole job or not? I think they'd stop us. This is a violation of the Constitution of Article 63. Let me tell you something about anonymity, what I think is the problem with this. On the board yesterday when we talked, one of your assistants said that the only way for a large number of donors to give their reproductive cells is to remain anonymous. However, there is a Article 64. A constitution that guarantees children the right to know who their parents are. So, on the one hand, you want to meet the progenitors of reproductive cells that demand to be anonymous, what happens in 15 years when children who are so conceived grow up? They'll sue the state on the basis of this article 64. The constitution and if there is a constitutional judiciary still in this country should win the dispute. I don't know if you've considered the consequences of such a thing. So for many people, it's crucial to understand for themselves, for their own identity, for understanding themselves of the crucial importance of knowing who their parents are. So you're going to be 15 or 18 or 20 years from now when the kids start coming at that time to wonder who their parents are forbidding them to know who they are. To say the example, in the UK it started the same way -- donors had a lot of right to protect their identity, but then the Supreme Court, I mean, in 1993, abolished that provision, so kids now if they want to know for any reason, they can know that. I'm not talking about us sharing the identity of the donor. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about kids having the right to know if they want it because it's guaranteed by the Constitution. In both these cases, both surrogate motherhood and donor identity, i.e. the right of children to know that there is a constitutional basis. There's one more small thing I want to tell you, you say here in article 25 when you talk about users of this process, and then you say – the extremely right to BMPO procedures also has a full-time business woman who lives alone. Really? If he lives with his grandparents, he can't? If he lives with cats, he can't? I know, but it's really a rough formulation - if she lives alone. It's supposed to be said - if he doesn't have a partner. It's supposed to change that for real. This is really embarrassing. And in the previous version, it was also such a formulation. I am pleased to finally see that women who do not have partners have now without asking the minister the right to participate in this procedure, as viewers or citizens may not know, in the previous version they had to ask the minister to have that right. So this law is really a promotion in this respect. It would only be good to change that thing. Please, if you could just answer me – in what context of the constitutional members on these two things, the surrogate motherhood and the identity of the donor? I understand that there are pragmatic considerations to protect identity. What about breaking the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15010	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15011	I don't know if it's your goal, but I'll give it to you again, I'm not in a position to, I admit it, to carry out a surrogate so that there's no abuse. Here you go, get organized, make it stop and there's no problem. I'm thinking about things - a woman who's pregnant with an embolism thrombosis is much bigger, what if a woman dies? What if those who wanted to get divorced in the meantime are fighting? What if tomorrow the kid gets sick and wants to get it back? What if a woman changes her mind and won't? I don't have a problem. I'm telling you, I'm not capable of doing it without consequences. There's no problem. The whole team. Ludi, this isn't about something that's been nailed. I admit, I can't. I can't right now. As far as the data, information and everything else is concerned, it's anonymous that we've decided, that's what the profession thinks it should be, but in case, in addition to everything we've said we're going to the second, third generation, we're questioning parents, grandparents, illnesses, and everything else, but we left that possibility for that child to get sick tomorrow, that he needs stem cells or anything, a doctor who runs that child will be able to reach those parents if he needs a stem cell, if he needed anything. So that's what's been taken care of and it's been regulated. It is simply what the profession considers and what the profession from practice and examples that have been and processed to be seen. In accordance with the Law on...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15012	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15013	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, I have experienced this law as just one of the laws in a series that can improve our population policy, so not the only one. A country's population policy can be improved in a number of ways, and this is only one of the laws that can help those parents who want to achieve it, means that they realize their parenthood, and all of the options in the treatment phase of sterility, i.e. infertility of one or both partners. What I particularly want to point out in this law, and I don't think any of my colleagues have spoken before, is that in the previous law that we didn't have so-called traceability, and that's what I fully support the minister when he was just talking about how many babies were born, because just by introducing a quality system into inspection supervision and a series of systems in the field of health, such as system 15224, when it comes to medical procedures, ISO standard 13485, which speaks of medical means and can be applied to blood and blood derivatives. So I'm talking about one law and another, focused only on inspection supervision and standards. What is very important is that inspectors will be right from the Biomedicine Authority, but so trained and trained that they can apply all those standard operating procedures and all those parts of the quality management system that will allow us to know exactly what is done in the test procedure, what is done in the process of material obtained, processed material, how the material is stored, how it is distributed, where it ends at the end and how it will be eliminated if there is a certain risk. So that's what's very important. Of course, there's one financial support, if we're giving money for this kind of playback, then it's very important that we know what we're getting in the end. In addition, I only wanted to look back when it comes to traceability, which is also a variety of standards relating to the institution's own accreditation, and it refers to private institutions and polyclinics that work there, which have not been properly controlled so far. So, in addition to accreditation, which should be mandatory, they must also have a series of established quality systems when it comes to laboratory testing, such as ISO standard 17001 and other standards that are in favor of that. Also, when we talk about a unique information system, then these institutions must definitely have an ISO standard of 27000. Therefore, it is important to make sure that we get a quality inspector who when he enters a health care facility, he will know exactly what he is looking for. In this way we operate in two directions, we act in two directions so that we can determine critical control points within some procedure that can lead to unwanted events or unwanted effects. So what it is that collects the whole procedure or what it is that we can influence, and to reduce the number of unwanted events, that's one thing. Another thing, when it comes to the introduction of a quality system, other than this, we'll have precise monitoring, clear monitoring of what happens to a child born. Let's not kid ourselves, I think we'll be ten years from now and some new pathology, and I think those kids should still be followed by a pediatrician and see what's going on in that field. As far as I'm concerned, both law and law, I think the roof laws, I think the sublaw will clearly define everything these laws contain, I think they're far better and more advanced and leave room for promotion, which, when this story is concerned, is very, very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15014	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15015	Dearly respected fellow Members of Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, who are prevented from seeing this very important debate in a direct transfer to RTS, the Honorable Chairman, I would really ask that the MPs get an explanation that RTS is possible to interrupt the direct transfer of the National Assembly, especially if the National Assembly pays RTS directly from our assembly budget, then I do not see simply under which explanation such important topics can be interrupted and broadcast later, after midnight on which channel RTS channel. Please really let us get that answer, because if we're paying for this, I don't see how arbitrary RTS can interrupt any transfer of assembly sessions, especially this important and big topic. Of course I'm always against it when we have to do something about EU directives. I do seem to be acting really hard when the representatives of the government explain to us that they are passing certain laws that are fully in line with EU directives. What kind of state are we, and what is the character of our country, if we make laws according to certain directives? There is no coincidence in the samantics, in terms of words, in the names of certain things, and what we do according to EU directives says everything. So it doesn't have to be translated into Serbian. No matter what the directives are from the EU, we need to see what the interest of Serbian citizens is and it is not disputed that these two topics are of very significant interest to Serbian citizens. First of all, and that's what we've all been talking about here today, to finally start solving the most priority state issue, and that's the problem of white plague and the death of our population, if that's 40,000 Serbian citizens less at an annual level than they are born, if that's 400,000 people in ten years, if without any war, without any infectious disease, or if I don't know what other cataclysms we lose 400,000 people, and that's not for us sobering up that we have to start solving that problem, then we're really in trouble. So I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made one serious mistake that in previous years has not been paying attention to the demographic problem, which has never, for many years, been a priority for any Prime Minister, and now we have a situation to have the new president of the state of Alexander Vukic, who should consult with the current Serbian Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, to include in the consultations and the co-ordinator of all the security services of Alexander Vukic, and that we may then come to the establishment of a demographic council to which he will lead, believe it or not, but Aleksandar Vukic. Ludi, that's not normal. That doesn't make any sense. It's a waste of time. That's why we still don't have demographic advice. Because we're waiting for a man on his forehead who's already in three functions. That's not normal. Do you have a minister with no portfolio in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who you tasked with dealing with demographic problems? What's he waiting for? Waiting for Alexander Vukic to solve problems and set up demographic advice. Well, then we don't need that minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I mean, Mr. Minister, if we hadn't paid attention here to one very important thing -- how did we find ourselves in trouble that so many couples in Serbia couldn't have children? I'm not sure what you've started with this law is enough to solve this medically assisted artificial insemination. Why can't these people have children? Has any ministry, has any profession in Serbia answered that question? Are these the consequences of the NATO Pact bombings? Are these some other psychophysical consequences that we've all been through for decades? What's the problem? Is it possible that too many abortions have led to the infertility of married couples in Serbia? Have you ever asked that very serious question? How many abortions affect the future inability for women to come true as mothers? So these are key issues that need to be addressed by this demographic council. Why are married couples unable to have children? This is a far more important issue even than this issue that we are discussing today, which is a very important issue. It is not disputed, we are, I think it is at least clear to everyone in this world, to you a fierce opposition, but we are not an opposition to Serbia. We support everything that even you, who, in our opinion, are narcissistic and bad authority, do well. You'll have our support, that's no problem. It's no problem for us to support these laws. But what's the problem here? It's a very sensitive subject. No one can object to meeting people who can't have children so they can have children. No one's normal will question that. But opening bioethical topics, such as surrogate motherhood, is, believe me, the opening of Pandora's box. This is the first time the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as far as I know, has seriously opened a bioethical topic, and many are coming to us. You mentioned the Civil Code that brings many good things, but brings even more dangerous things – euthanasia, murder of mercy, surrogate motherhood. Not to mention gay married couples or adopting children by these married couples or, for example, banning the physical punishment of children. So it's going to be a very serious bioethical topic. Surrogacy, I absolutely disagree with the distinguished colleague, Prof. Dr. Dusan Pavlovic. What he's talking about opens up huge problems from the bioethical sphere. A mother who carries someone else's child at one point starts to feel like a mother and sees that child as her own. Parents who aren't happy about how, to put it that way, they don't want to take it. You listed a series of problems that could happen, that married couples get divorced before they have a child from surrogate motherhood. What is it when we talk about surrogate motherhood? A woman's body shop, a child shop, and a child becomes a contract. So, the child becomes the subject of a trade contract. It's a dangerous thing. It's a thing that opens up unsuspecting possibilities of manipulation, abuse and bioethical and moral disasters that can happen. Otherwise, I fully understand the need for a certain number of people who cannot have children to find any way to accomplish it and no one can challenge them, nor, to put it that way, as Professor Pavlov said. So there's a very important question here, and you've remained a little unsettled. I would like to hear what really is your true personal position or position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You said, okay, there's no surrogate motherhood at this point. Here, you have our support. We are rare in an opposition that we have very openly sided with and we say that it is the right thing to do in this law and should not be allowed. But then you left space that the new civil code might change that and, if you get it, I don't know what conditions, maybe you should. Wait, Minister, should we do this or shouldn't we? It's a bioethical issue, it's not a political issue or a professional issue. So, are we going to direct the country in that direction to start people trading motherhood here, to the so-called countries. The vulnerable spaces are being used for something like that? Here's what the European Parliament says, I'm going to quote what Mr. Pavlovic couldn't quote. So, in the Annual Report on Human Rights and Democracy in the World for 2014, the European Parliament clearly condemns the practice of surrogacy in paragraph 114, and says: "The practice of surrogacy that undermines women's dignity is condemned, since its body and reproductive organs are used as goods. We believe that gestational surrogation, which includes reproductive exploitation and the use of the human body to gain financial or other benefits, especially in cases of vulnerable women in developing countries, should be prohibited and considered an urgent human rights issue. “
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15016	Mr. Obradic, the time that belongs to your MP club is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15017	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15018	Thank you. Mr. Pavlovic, you have the right to reply, but first we will hear the representative of the promoter, and then I will give you two minutes. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15019	One thing, and that's what's causing more people to have problems with their offspring? The whole thing is trying to determine these causes and there's not just one reason to say that – that's the reason. Is it the cause of the abortion? Yes, it is. What are we trying to do with this? If you noticed, we're trying to get private clinics into the system, make sure everyone who entered that private clinic is visible, so let's see if he's done an abortion and what he's done. That's our goal. We, by including them in the grid plan and everything, simply insist that they must be part of the system and that everything must be shown and that everything must be transparent, that they cannot accept someone to perform an abortion without being led anywhere. That's one way. Stress, lifestyle, climate. Look at the change, look what's going on. Bombing, impoverished uranium. Who doesn't understand that anymore? What's the problem? Everything later on, we want to start a family, everyone's chasing a career, they don't have time, and when they do, it's too late. That's all the causes, and there's no one. So we have to work on all these conditions, on all of that, to get results. Can't do one thing, can't do one thing, can't work one thing, can't work one thing, can't work one thing, can't work another, can't work, can't work, can't do it. They all have to work if we all care about it, if it's something we have in common. We don't have to look at each other, we don't have to love each other, we don't have to love each other, but let's go if we have the same goal for some things that I don't think depend on politics, anything. We want to think about future generations, nothing else. We want one pure Serbia, we want a future generation. That's my goal, I don't have anything else. Surrogate. You said it well, no one wanted to talk about it. The current position, the government's position, is the Ministry's position which it is. But we don't want to stop anyone from talking about it, because we think this is a place to talk and that everyone has the right to say their opinions. Let's face the arguments, and let the arguments win. That's the opinion. I'm telling you, I confessed, I can't find a way to protect it from what we talked about. How am I supposed to explain tomorrow that a woman died, she was a surrogate mother? How? This one's here tomorrow to bring back the child. How? I admit, I can't. Figure it out, organize it, do it, but let's talk. That's a lot of serious stuff. Not just you, but for everyone. I think this is a place where a lot of time has been spent when it's pushed under the carpet, when it's not talked about, these are topics like this, these are topics like that. People, let's just talk, tell each other what we have in our faces and let's decide, let's see what we're ready for first, see what we can control, what we can't control, what other people's experiences are, how others have gone. You don't think we're the smartest, that we're going to solve something epochally now and that we're going to pass some law that's going to make the whole world dark? I really don't think so. I think we're learning from other people's mistakes and we're moving forward, but we're not going back three. I think it's the basis of everything to be told. There, that's my philosophy. What am I up for? I advocate, my only goal is pure Serbia, in every sense, pure Serbia, and to work for future generations. It's my only goal, I don't have the other one.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15020	Thank you. Right on line, MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15021	Ladies and gentlemen, we have attended one of the little curiosities here that one of the biggest Eurosceptics in this room calls for an EU document, in a positive context. However, counterpart Obradovic did misquote the document when he wanted to state what the EU, or the European Parliament, thought of surrogate motherhood. It says very clearly here that surrogate motherhood is condemned in the context of the protection of human rights when the female body is used for financial or other benefit. So I was talking about purely altruistic reasons for surrogate motherhood. A much stronger argument against surrogate motherhood, I'd like to offer my solution to it, is when a mother after nine months when a child is born emotionally to him, because she wore it for nine months in her body. It's actually noticed, empirically proven, that then mothers change their minds. It's a very strong urge, let me say, in case an egg cell belongs to its own surrogate mother, it's almost inevitable. However, if marriage mates give their reproductive cells, say you have a mother who can produce an egg cell, but she can't bring out a pregnancy and a man to, or another partner to give her reproductive cell and then they implant themselves into a surrogate mother, if the mother changed her mind then, then she would really take something that wasn't hers, if she wanted to keep the child. So maybe it wouldn't be bad to think about starting with cases like that or practices like that, and then expanding to something else, if possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15022	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. I have made it possible for Mr Pavlovic to spend two more minutes, and I will allow you to do the same, but first I must give my word to the speaker, Dr Zlatibor Lončar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15023	Just one thing for you to know. Surrogate mother, egg cell, spermozoid from others, she presented pregnancy, DNA - hers. He can't get in, get out of, say, Great Britain or anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15024	Thank you. The word is Bosko Obradović, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15025	What would our people say? Thank you, God! I think of Mr. Minister's observation that we need to talk, that in this house we need to open up serious topics, that we have no problem considering all our differences seriously what is of general interest, so we, Mr. Minister, have been talking here for months, but we don't have the conditions for such serious conversations on such a serious subject because it's simply being avoided for some reason. I thank you for allowing this debate because this is a serious, extremely important topic. I'd just like to draw attention to one detail. This thing can be viewed a little from a religious perspective. God is the giver of life, not doctors and not artificial insemination, and we are a little separated from the religious perspective. We've separated ourselves from some normal life. Is there a normal diet? Is there a normal dream? Is there normal behavior? Is there a normal life? I'm glad you confirmed what I think is absolutely right, that certain bad lifestyles also lead to birth problems, i.e. motherhood, paternity. So we've dropped, in fact, the system of values, we've dropped the way of life, we're not solving the problem in the root. And we come at the end and say at once – married couples can't have children. Well, they can't have. How many disease addictions, how many drugs, how many abortions, how many other abnormal ways of behavior or bad lifestyles are. That's where this problem is solved, Mr. Minister. There's a focus of what some demographic advice that doesn't do is supposed to do. That's where we're going to reduce, if that's even possible, if God does, the problems facing modern civilization. The Dvors already wanted to make their contribution. We have done an entire study on surrogate motherhood in meeting debates regarding the civil code and I will be very happy to make it available for you, as well as an esteemed colleague of Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15026	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure of Rule 1 which reads: “If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. ” Mr. Chairman, you've twice allowed a replica that wasn't even mutual. Both times, the MPs replicated the minister. So, you have the right to decide on this by attitude 3, as chairman, who has the right to replication, but if they are replicating each other, it is their turn to replicate each other, not to use it to call the minister and to replicate directly to the proposing representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15028	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I do not think that I have injured that member of the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 104(1). I'll explain what's really important. Mr. Obradovic, in his presentation, I counted, three times very precisely and clearly mentioned Mr. Pavlovic, made some disagreements with the arguments Mr. Pavlovic made during the debate. With the importance and importance of the topic in mind, I made it possible for Mr Pavlovic to make certain arguments, and given that I allowed Mr Pavlovic to do so, I also enabled Obradovic for an additional two minutes. (Marian Risticevic: And they replicated the minister. We talked about it many times. It is up to us, first of all, to assess the importance and importance of the topic, to allow the MPs to speak, but we cannot predict whether they will address the minister or will respond specifically. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15029	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected ministers with associates, we have two extremely important health laws ahead of us. I'll talk about the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act. We could have heard some earlier and certain, I would say, ominous comments about the influence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic on demographic opportunities in Serbia, and I would like to present just a few details. In 2016 there were 7,000 births in the GAC "The People's Front", a record in the last 10 years, in Kragujevac the most babies were born in January 2017 in the last 20 years, in 2015 20,000 babies were born in Belgrade, a record in the last 30 years. So these are all data that speak of the impact of both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister on the demographic situation in Serbia. Of course this isn't enough and we want to work on making your results much better. In that sense, I would like to commend the measure we had in the middle of last year, when we have a situation where couples have the right to have a third free attempt at out-of-body insemination, when we add to that the fact that many cities and municipalities also have hearing about it, I think somewhere we manage to ensure that all couples can get to their offspring free of charge. When it comes to the town of Cachak, I must stress that for the fifth year, we have been detaching funds for out-of-body fertilization in such a way as to include all the couples that apply and without any additional restrictions in that sense that if someone uses that right in one year and the results are not at the desired level, that they can compete next year. I am very pleased with the legislative proposal and, in particular, one part that the minister stressed, which concerns the need for all clinics to have the ability to freeze embryos with the emphasis that some goal is to get as few embryos back as possible, not only because multiple pregnancies and additionally cost the state but also because the fact that we have the freezing of embryos comes into the situation from one procedure, that we have two from one hormonal stimulation, and perhaps even three embryotransfers that significantly reduce costs and costs, but what is more important to me, we are much more concerned about women's health. In this sense, certain problems arise, I would say, because in more and more clinics we seem to have hyperstimulation, situations, because if we say that in the standard out-of-body fertilisation process, some standard is to produce seven to 12 egg cells, and in some situations that number goes to over 20, over 30, which directly leads to these egg cells not having enough maturity, they do not have sufficient quality. It also directly affects the quality of the embryo again. When you can't even freeze those embryos because of your poor quality, then you get into a situation where a young woman practically spends those reserves of egg cells that are limited in every woman, that we can't use them properly, and that again in cases of aggressive hyperstimulation we have significant costs. So that's something I think we should pay attention to, of course, not through the law, but some standards have to exist and there must be a clear monitoring that if we notice that these are very common phenomena at some clinics, then we should react to these phenomena. One of my own opinions, that in the future we should also think about some model that has applied certain countries in the West, which is that before these three classic attempts we have already provided, we are also introducing a practice that there are extra-body fertilizations from the natural cycle. Just because I stressed that I think we should worry more about women's health, and I think that in certain situations these natural cycle procedures can be successful. On the one hand, it may be an additional cost, but if we consider that these actions are much cheaper and that each couple who succeeds in doing so will not go to the classic but more expensive procedure. I think we should do a certain analysis here and see if it's worth it and whether we should accept some practice that already exists in the West. I would also like to open the issue of embryologist status, since I think their influence in the out-of-body fertilization process is very important. You correct me if I'm wrong, but I think they have a medical associate status, not a health worker. I think their impact on the very outcome of out-of-body insemination is really great and that they work under some specific circumstances. We know that there is no fixed working time, that different working conditions, such as high temperatures, strong light on the cornea, i.e. working on a microscope and working in the presence of certain gases such as liquid freezing nitrogen, gas nitrogen and carbon dioxide on incubators. So I think business is very specific and that it should be rewarded especially because I think there's some disproportionateity between private and state clinics and then in some ways when we produce a good embryologist, there's a risk that he decides to look for some better conditions, and then I don't think that's good for us. At the very end, I'd like to point out the issue of prevention. I think that's a very important question, because what's really important for a young man, let's say, 20 years old, a little problem if he doesn't know about it, at 30, he's going to be bigger, 35 and 40, and we can't really order it there and in any way affect when a certain couple are going to decide to have a child. What I think we can do is either motivate or oblige young people to take more care of prevention. If we have characterized the way of life as one of the reasons why we have an increased number of couples who can't have children, then I think that if these causes are discovered in time, there's a chance in a good number that by some natural treatment, we can get rid of them and thus deprive these people of extra stress and therefore, what we're saying, costs for the state. If 20 years ago every tenth or twelveth couple had a problem with sterility, and today it is, if I'm not wrong every sixth by some prognosis, very soon it will be every third. The question is how much money we're going to need in the future to cover it all up, and I think somewhere the ultimate goal is not to give us more money for this area but to try and slow down that growth. I think we should think about what these methods are. I think prevention is one way, whether through motivation, I personally think it should be there and mandatory because these few hours or a few days of simple examinations are much easier than anything a certain couple has to go through at some later stage when the problem is already serious and there is no possibility of natural healing. It is clear that this is an area where science is progressing very quickly and that we will certainly have to make these legal solutions and build and perfect them in the future. These are some topics to think about. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15030	The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura. The time remaining for your MP club is three minutes and 34 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15031	Thank you, Chairman. The Law on Transfusion Medicine explains the concepts at the outset, which explains the concept of distribution in Article 3 in paragraphs 1 and 11 of Article 3. Among other things, it is said that this concept implies both the supply of blood and blood components to a blood and plasma drug manufacturer. There were no more words about this than in that article through the law. On the Health Committee, where she was a colleague, Branka Stamenkovic, she asked the question – why she is not talking about this, and she received the answer in response to the fact that the necessary information was contained in the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. I have looked at this law, and unfortunately there are no further explanations in that law on how we are produced, where we are produced, and if we produce exactly what we produce and in what quantity. Well, now I'm asking you, Your Honor, and your associates to further explain this part to us because, in addition to being interested in the MPs who are sitting here, I believe that this topic is also of serious interest to citizens who, unfortunately, will, in the delayed transmission, watch this debate, I am sure among them, there are a number of blood donors who are interested in this topic. Why do I think this question is interesting? In fact, the Republic of Serbia on an annual level for imports of medicines made of blood and plasma is about 30m euros, and on the other hand we throw tons of plasma that are domestic. According to the Association of Voluntary Blood Givers, only about 5% of the blood is used in our country. Now I'm going to do a little depression, and I think it's necessary, namely, when we have reduced salaries for public sector workers, especially healthcare workers, the state of Serbia has practically punished them with 100m euros. Then you have money on one side for importing drugs that we can produce for ourselves 30m euros and fined healthcare workers worth 100m euros. Somehow we accept that, that financial illogicality although it's completely incomprehensible, and I think we're doing more damage to all the voluntary blood donors because they certainly didn't give it to us in the end. In addition to this financial indifference and the insult of this practically human act of all 200,000 donors in Serbia, there is also a question of the security of what we are importing, so no centre in the world from which we import drugs gives us the necessary, or the necessary guarantee that they are 100% safe. I've listed a few reasons why it's important for us to process blood and blood components right in our country, and with that, I'd like to relate to a further topic, to ask you, do you know what's going on with the Faction Standard, does it work at all and how it's equipped? So does this center even function in Serbia? It is not unusual that in Serbia, especially Serbia, public institutions are somehow brought to the brink of existence and that in such a process or similar process they eventually go into private property. I'm also interested in what a spent donation...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15032	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15033	Can I finish? I am also interested, we received a donation of 5.5 million from the EU, so I am interested in how these funds were spent, given that we received information from the prime minister in reading the exposé... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15034	Thank you. You've been given extra time to ask a question. Thank you. Minister Zlatibor Lončar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15035	I mean, whatever you said, that's why we're going with this bill. So that's what we want not to happen, that's what you were talking about. You need to separate two things. One thing is blood and blood derivatives, especially regulated, and especially regulated is what is made and what is made of medicines. So you have to know, with blood, you can infect four of them, and with what's been processed, you can infect a lot more. So these are totally separated things. We bring this, we suggest, that we just use it to throw nothing, that it doesn't fail anywhere, and that you have in the system where it is, so that you can pull where it's needed. These other numbers you said, it's really flat, there's no basis. The only thing that's going on, and it's not a faction center, it doesn't exist, it's what albumins are produced at the Bureau of Transfusion here in Belgrade, and our goal is to do this so we can do a lot more things, that this isn't what you were talking about. That's the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15036	Thank you. You don't really have a basis for replicating now. [[Tatyana Macura: Can I have a replica?]] You just got the answer to the question. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borka Grubor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15037	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Government, I welcome everyone in the name of the city from which I come and in my personal name. I'm from the city of Loznica. As a gynecologist, I am very pleased that today we have these two laws that will regulate very important areas in our health system. Clearly and precisely, the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination and the Law on Transit Medicine defines who, what can do, under what conditions and who is in charge of controlling them. The BMPO Law will solve the problem of many married couples who could not produce offspring by natural means. The problem of conception is a very sensitive subject, and when it appears, it is usually solved by a team of professionals of different specialities, starting with gynecologists, so urologists, biologists, geneticists, psychologists and many others. This law regulates a very important area of health care and adapts the current Law on artificial fertilisation of the law applicable in most EU countries. Maintaining the reproductive health of women, especially young people, is the primary task of gynecologists and all other healthcare professionals. In order for young generations to be productively capable of us, it is necessary to include the educational system by introducing a mandatory course in primary school on health education. It is known to all of us that young people, unfortunately, are getting involved in sexual relations earlier, not thinking about the consequences of the same. That's why the number of abortions in our country is growing. Pregnant pregnancy in early youth can leave lasting consequences in terms of sterility, as well as various sexually transmitted diseases that can also lead to birth problems at the desired age. In order for the nation to be healthier and to be more than lethal, which is unfortunately not the case with us, we must educate young people before entering sexual relations. So we'll have fewer couples who need BMPO and less will cost our country. When I started working as a gynecologist in my town, in Loznica, the number of births per year was 2000, 2100. After two and a half decades, the number for last 2016 was 1.030. It's a drastic difference, especially with the biological potential of leaving our country. The local self-government of the town of Loznica, back several years, has been stimulating the birth rate by encouraging measures, deeming a certain amount of money from the city's budget for young couples making their first marriage. The amount is at the level of the city's average net earnings, amounting to 32,000 dinars. Unemployed mothers are paid every month for 20,000 dinars until the first year of child's life. Also, one-time aid is paid for a first-born child of 15,000 dinars, for a second-born child of 20,000 dinars, a third-born child of 30,000 dinars, for twins of 40,000 dinars. For single mothers, this amount increases by 50%. It stimulates the birth of a third child by paying off financial aid, and so on. By the third year of child life, three thousand dinars a month, up to the seventh year of child life of five thousand dinars, up to 15 years of child life of eight thousand dinars, up to 18 years of life of 10,000 dinars. When all these figures are added together, it's about 12,000 euros in adulthood. In addition to the above, at the end of 2016 a sum of five million dinars for the purchase of houses with gardens of up to 50 acres, and in the village for young couples, to encourage them to live in rural areas that are increasingly empty. I hope that in the voting day everyone in this House will support these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15038	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has an authorised representative of SNS Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15039	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, we have two extremely important laws in the field of health - a bill on biomedically assisted fertilisation and a proposal for a law on transfusion medicine. On how good the bill's proposals are and how important the bill's proposals are, and that during this session and MPs of the opposition mostly supported these good laws, except for those on-call haters who tried to challenge everything that goes from the government of the Republic of Serbia to the head of the prime minister, future president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. As I said, when we talk about the proposal for a law on biomedical insemination, it is a very good law and a very important law, and we especially need to bear in mind, given the number of couples who are struggling with this big problem, the problem of sterility and how much this problem can affect their lives or already affect their lives, but not just theirs, but the lives of their families. The existing law has misdefined these conditions, as well as the organisation itself, activity, but also the monitoring of the activity of biomedical fertilisation. Therefore, it was necessary for the new law to make changes, so that this new law envisioned, above all, the organisation of an organisational system in the field of biomedical assisted fertilisation and the creation of uniform conditions for the conduct of the biomedical assisted fertilisation process, which will directly affect the effectiveness of the biomedical fertilisation process in our country. It is also important that the Ministry of Health recognized this problem and the poor long-term practice that no defined conditions on the national agenda were applied to certain institutions dealing with this type of activity in the procedures of biomedically assisted fertilisation. The main objective of this law is to increase the number of biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures, but above all, to increase the percentage of the effectiveness of biomedically assisted fertilisation, which is really very important and that all authorised institutions in this area should apply, means that they have clearly defined conditions and that they respect all the prescribed conditions. What the new law achieves and what is very important is that all institutions must have the same conditions, have the same when, which has not been present so far. Also, what is important, and what this new law regulates is that the use of cryopreservation as an integral activity in the context of biomedically assisted fertilisation, the bill ensures greater availability of this service, which significantly reduces costs and reduces the entire infertility treatment process. What is very important is that according to the existing law, which regulates biomedically assisted fertilisation, no private bang has been included as a service in which biomedical assisted fertilisation can be performed. In this way, waiting lists are reduced, and waiting lists have been up to six months, and we all know how important it is when it is considered that young couples cannot, or those couples who have a problem with sterility, realize their wishes and realize themselves as parents, and we also need to consider that the time that runs to the scheduled term for biomedical assisted fertilisation leads to the age of the mother, and hence the reproductive period is already coming at some time that should be avoided. Just because this law will regulate that private practices, institutions which of course meet all these conditions, can participate is very important because waiting lists will be reduced. What is very important in the new law is that an extended circle of persons who can participate in the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation, and now besides spouses, outside partners or those women who have conditions and the right to carry out biomedically assisted fertilisation, this right has minor faces, of course, with the consent of parents. These people are just not recognized in the existing law, and these people have had this problem, so because of such failures in the existing law, many of them have not been reached as parents. So they've been denied one great right, which is to be parents. This law also implies that people who want to freeze their reproductive cells and delay parenting for some later periods can do so. Then these new legal solutions allow for the possibility of giving embryos. Of course, some opposition MPs had some dilemmas about it. It's all laid down by law and regulations. Indeed, there is no possibility of any malfeasance or any trade in embryos or reproductive cells. What's important is the same thing when it comes to donation is that we all have to work to promote donorship. This law also regulates that with good law we can think about it, all of us. Then we all have to work to create age conditions, of course, but also to raise the awareness of citizens, above all, about how important it is to donate, whether they are organs or reproductive cells or embryos. What's new in the new law, and what's very important is the existence and definition of banks of reproductive cells, which has not been the case so far. It is important to stress that the donation of reproductive cells or embryos is a voluntary and selfless act and that they are certainly not paid, and that all of this is regulated legally, ethically and, of course, in medical contexts. What is very important is that the existing law has been vaguely regulated by inspection supervision, and this time it was necessary to edit this item, especially because it is a highly sensitive area that is being developed daily, and it is necessary first and foremost that there are trained inspectors who will be able to influence the quality in this area by their existence and operation. The new law also introduces permanent permits. This is very important, given that there was a need for these licences to be extended earlier, and by extending these permits it was necessary to collect certain paperwork, and this all required costs. Now these costs are gone. Of course, with regular controls, the work of these institutions that perform biomedically assisted fertilisation will be monitored, and if there are any failures such institutions will be withdrawn, but these work permits no longer need to be extended, they are permanent, which is very important, as unnecessary costs are excluded. Enough words in today's session and surrogate motherhood. I think it is quite right to maintain the view that surrogate motherhood is being banned for the time being, since we are not yet enough of a country, or we are still a poor country to think in that direction, because there would be a problem of possible abuse, and certainly not in the cause, but that we are thinking about it in another period, but also the fact that the European Parliament decided at the end of 2015 on the ban on surrogate motherhood is saying that this law would then be minor to European laws. When it comes to this law and infertility, what my colleague Borka Grubor mentioned is a very important education for our adolescents. Since girls often get into sexual relations in a very early adolescent period, and therefore there are various transmitted diseases, very often unwanted pregnancy and abortions, I think we should ask ourselves and think about it in the same direction that basic schools introduce a mandatory subject of sexual education, to educate our children about this problem, although the obligation of all of us as parents is to deal with it, but unfortunately, many children know nothing about it, and out of ignorance, real mistakes that can later cost them great problems and, unfortunately, they can face this problem of sterility, which should really be prevented. When it comes to the second draft law, the draft law on transfusion medicine, we know that this area has been governed by a law that was passed since 2009, and given that these two areas, as well as biomedically assisted fertilisation, but also by transfusion medicine in continuous improvement, need to be amended by law and the need to improve, specify existing conditions, that the organisation and activity of transfusion medicine, as well as supervision of the conduct of transfusion medicine, offices, and all of this in order to provide quality and safety blood and blood components. What is the paper of this law is a regulated organisational system in the area of transfusion medicine and the extension of the law to clinical transfusions. As I said in this new law, first of all, in a clear and unequivocal way defined the roles of two types of health institutions, these are – hospital blood banks and health institutions that carry out the preparation of blood and blood components. What is very important through this law is that by including a clinical transfusion, the new law ensures that the process is involved by a doctor who specializes in the treatment process, which is certainly according to the criteria of the World Health Organization, which will primarily be rationally used by blood and blood components and will significantly prevent complications, serious side effects and reactions that may arise as a result of the use of blood or blood components. What I would still point out when this law is at stake is that the introduction of new testing techniques called “NAT technique” raises to a higher level of blood testing and thus is a shorter period of detection of viruses that can be transmitted through transfusions and this represents one safer and safer application of blood and blood components, but on the other hand, avoids additional unnecessary stress for voluntary blood donors. And, through this law, there have been changes as well as inspections. It is obvious that once laws were passed that did not cover all areas and everything was not arranged properly, and many problems were pushed under the carpet during some future period, and just when we were talking about our health, we all witnessed how much our health system was destroyed from 2000 to 2012 and that in 2014, as a country, we were really on a low scale, not only in health, but also in all other areas. What I would point out is that our government led by Aleksandra Vukic and our Ministry of Health managed to stop the collapse of health from 2014 and that in good reform laws, above all, we were able to advance, so that in the European Health Consumer Index we improved the score and made truly enviable progress in three key areas, which are the areas of patients' rights, treatment outcomes and availability of health care. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that our Ministry of Health in the past three years, led by Minister Loncar, has achieved extraordinary results. We are witnessing that there has been no investment in medical institutions, literally, for decades, and that only in the last three years many things have been done. Since I come from the Rasin County, from Kruševec, I witness that in Kruševac Hospital there is indeed a lot of donations from the Ministry of Health, but also from people of goodwill who have succeeded and recognized it, politics, above all SNS, and donated a lot to the General Hospital. What is commendable is that, after so many years, the Clinical Centre in Nis was renovated after so many years, the Clinical Centre was equipped, and the plan was adopted this year and that it would begin with the renovation and clinical centres in Kragujevac, Vojvodina and Belgrade. I would also point out that this government has managed to provide a Gamma knife, and we all know that the Gamma knife is a gold standard in neurosurgery, and that it has started working at the end of 2015, and since then over 1,000 interventions have been recorded, which is really one data that exceeds all records. What is commendable, which is yesterday's news, one of the colleagues mentioned, is that over 2,000 health workers are approved. We all know what the problem is, and that we had some other health laws that we had to change by emergency procedure, because some of the previous authorities hadn't considered that certain specialities specialists had some age when they had to retire and that we were going to lose certain doctors, certain specialities, so we had to, in the previous period, pass laws on specializations with changes that were necessary. All of this is due to our government headed by Alexander Vukic and, alas, our Ministry of Health, headed by Mr. Loncar. Otherwise, I could talk about all the good things that the Ministry of Health has done in the past 20 minutes, not these 20 minutes, but 2,000 more minutes, but this time I'd like to finish this discussion by just saying that all these results that are behind us, as well as the proposals of all these good laws, are once again confirming that we are on the right track. That is exactly what the citizens of Serbia gave us a few weeks ago, in the presidential elections, and they clearly said they believed SNS policy, and Mr Vukic, and that SNS's policy had no alternative, and they confirmed it once again with more than 55%. I hope that in the day of voting and these on-call haters will vote in favour of these good laws, because they are aimed at and in the interest of the Serbian people, and I believe, since you are so much in favour of a Serbian counterpart, you will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15040	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. The time remaining for you as an authorised representative of the Parliament Club, three minutes and four seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15041	Thank you. I wanted, first of all, to thank the minister for the answer he offered me, for one part of my presentation, but I just have to ask for additional help, because, if I understand correctly, I may not have understood. I understand that you told me that there was a deadline in the law that was prescribed to establish a new inspection service and that it was 12, whether 18 months. I can't find that in the law, if you could tell me what member he's in. It's quite possible I missed it somewhere to see it. Article 71 provides for the organisation of the operations of the Biomedicine Inspectorate, the inspection tasks carried out by a health inspection established, the previous one, which is according to the previous law. Just because of this article 71, I came to that question, and until when is it time to start this new one, within the Biomedicine Authority? When will she work? As far as I can tell from the deadlines prescribed, we have two prescribed deadlines in this Act. One says that health institutions that want to deal with this work of biomedically assisted fertilisation have 12 months to comply with the provisions of this Law, and the minister has 18 months to prescribe all these sublaws mentioned in the Law. It's a little illogical for me, because I think it takes less time for something to be prescribed than to be fulfilled, even if not, maybe it's complicated because of a republican expert commission that has to work out a lot of issues. How can we expect institutions to meet all the conditions, when the mass of conditions is not yet prescribed, within a shorter period than those conditions will be laid down? It's just one illogical thing to me and I'm going back to it. In the end, I'd just like to ask, if the minister is going to suit me any longer than the member of the inspection, the most beautiful thing I ask is that you insult me in the end, because it's the only way I'm going to somehow fight for the replica, otherwise he's not going to give me a word. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15042	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15043	I'm sorry, but I don't think I'm going to insult you, or you, or the pain of anyone. It's very simple if you're really interested. The first thing you have to do to have that inspection, you have to change the systematization at the Ministry of Health, to change the systematization at the Ministry of Health, the law has to pass in the Assembly. When you change the systematization at the Ministry of Health, then you go with sublaws. What I can tell you, we've already prepared it all and in the sublegal act it says it's going to be 18 places. You can't win until the law is passed. How do you get a sublaw if the law isn't passed?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15044	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. The time remaining for you, as head of the parliamentary group, is eight minutes and eight seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15045	Thank you, Your Honor. I would use this time to tell the following spirit that the minister has launched on very important and valuable issues, to open another topic concerning the other law, because I think it is of strategic importance for both Serbia's health security and, how can I say, even say so, and a domestic pharmaceutical industry that is also one of our important strategic economic sectors. In fact, when we talked about blood transfusions and blood banks, about everything these laws mean, it stayed somewhere, at least to me, unclear whether we even operate centers for so-called. blood francification, i.e. for the production of stable blood products. That is one completely, I would say, quieted and tabulated area in Serbia. What does that mean exactly? That specifically means that at least we don't have clear information at this point what's going on with our blood plasma? What's going on with our blood plasma supplies? Are they placed in the function of producing domestic drugs or not? That's actually an essential question. If I'm precise enough and accurate right now, I'm going to put a few arguments in that direction. The Institute for Blood Transfusion in Belgrade was once one of the largest blood factories in the Balkans. Undoubtedly, one of the most important centres in Europe. Is he on that level today? Does anyone do that? Is the blood plasma in Serbia being placed in the function of producing domestic drugs or is it practically destroyed or not placed in that function after a certain expiry date, so to speak? What I have from the field is information that this blood plasma from certain centres for blood transfusions from the interior is simply not sent to Belgrade, but is destroyed after a certain period of time. Can I correctly conclude that we no longer have adequate production of domestic drugs from our blood plasma? That would be a very tragic conclusion. When we consider that the blood plasma is real, the case is done, the anger serums, that a beoglobin is made that is very important for our pregnant women, now I hear that it's a foreign drug called a horn, if I'm not mistaken, that it's a real albumin, which is important for sepsis, for cirrhosis, etc. So, it's one of those huge and strategic perspectives of our economic activity and the production of domestic drugs, and on the other hand it's a matter of health security, because we all know that this blood genetics, maybe I'm a little bit layish right now to express myself, in any case what our genetic potential is in blood, something that's crucial that we make our domestic drugs out of it. Because if we use drugs that come from some other blood genetics, they can be, as we all know, certain problems in matching these drugs with our genetic potential. So, am I talking about the right subject? What can you tell us about it? Do we worry about, say, putting into function the blood plasma that is isolated, of course, after a blood transfusion and which has some longer duration and which, according to my information, is practically destroyed after that period, because we have not put into function the production of domestic drugs. Now that's where I get to the point. We had "Torak" which was also huge in that area and we have it today, but we don't have it at that level, so I asked if we also had a blood transfusion institute in Belgrade at that level. Why am I talking about this? Because it's a matter of Serbia's health security. You, Mr. Minister, know how strong the move in Serbia is against the inoculation of our children without parental approval. One brief depression, but completely in the dark. This movement is strong for a simple reason not that people are against the vaccination of children against infectious diseases, so no one would normally be against it, we know that vaccination has contributed to the eradication of infectious diseases, not but people have a certain type of skepticial against foreign vaccines, or drugs from abroad, and they ask whether we have a national reference laboratory to control the correctness of these foreign medicines, or a very important question – whether we have domestic vaccine production, whether our “Torak”, do we have domestic drug production, whether our Institute for Blood Transfusion is doing this job, what does “Galenika”, what does the domestic pharmaceutical industry do, are we sure about Serbia's health security? That's a very serious question. We can now call these topics conspiracy theories. We can say that some people are crazy when they won't vaccinate children, but don't play with the subject. It's a very serious subject. This country, if it wants to be a serious state and if it wants to protect the health of the nation, and yet it's about our reproductive health, we agreed, it has to take care of that kind of health security, it has to control what comes from imports and much better than that, it has to produce domestic. This is where we come to the domestic economic interest in the whole story, and we all know how strong pharmaceutical lobbys are. We all know that the international drug industry is one of the strongest multinational industries. We all know that someone likes to put an end to domestic production and take over our drug market. We're not little kids. We understand that someone must have an interest in us not having domestic production. I don't think there's any dilemma about it. Now it's just a question – is there a state or is there no state? If there are countries, the state protects the domestic producer, the state protects the health security of citizens, the state invests in “Torak”, the state invests in the Institute of Blood Transfusion and these are the side activities that I told you about when I tell you that what you're doing is not enough. I say openly -- a good direction with everyone I've talked to, and they come from, I say, these professions -- transfusiologists all over Serbia, they said that the law is going in the right direction, that it's good to have four regional centres, that it's good to take control of the whole process. It's all good, but is it enough? I don't think it's enough. I don't think it's enough for the simple reason that the state needs to protect its nation's health. The state - and there we are, Mr. Minister, not to enter that topic, but I still have so much time, we often differ as power and opposition. You, following Dinkic in a neoliberal economic concept, believe that the state should withdraw from the competition and free the market for this competition. We don't think it's necessary. We think that the state is a key regulator of national interest in the economy and security interest of Serbian citizens. The state cannot withdraw when it comes to the production of drugs, when it comes to the Institute of Blood Transfusion, when it comes to "Torak", when it comes to "Gallenika". Those are strategic issues. There's no withdrawal of the state. It must remain in the hands of the state. It must be invested here from the Serbian state budget. Here we must protect what is our national, economic, health and any other interest, and here I would like to hear your opinion, as I see that you are today in the mood for a serious dialogue on the subject. I think this is extremely well-intentioned. I think I just want to say that we from the Serbian Dveri Movement are an extremely state-of-the-art political option and that everything that benefits the Serbian state will always get our support, regardless of what in a number of other things we absolutely disagree with and we are a fierce opposition to everything you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15046	Thank you. First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15047	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I think you have accidentally made a mistake, or I am advertising Article 107, because you have not responded, perhaps because of this conciliant atmosphere in which the debate for each commendation is taking place, and you have then overlooked that the colleague who spoke in front of the ruling party in her natural exposé has, in a rough way, addressed the opposition MPs several times...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15048	Mr. Vukadinović...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15049	Excuse me, please. I point to your injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15050	Excuse me. I have to suggest. Article 103 - National MP shall have the right to orally indicate an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he is not in the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and shall be held at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, immediately after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't do it. Use and try to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to enter into a dialogue through the apparition of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. to replicate your colleagues and I cannot allow you to do so. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15051	You're just gonna let me keep this protesting phenomenon out of my way as I speak. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 106. Rules of Procedure – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We've been listening to all sorts of things in the previous speaker's presentation, just the least we've heard about is the topic of the agenda here today in this National Assembly that we're considering. There has been talk of the pharmaceutical industry, and the worst part is that the “religiousness of the National Assembly” here twice reiterates the claim that there is no state here. It's an insult to me. It is that we have found the ruins of the state, which his coalition partners have left us, but in this country and how there have been countries in recent years and it stands on its feet. It is an outrageous insult that someone who has been undermining his own country for days after the election process, not even wanting to admit the 40% difference results, who is going to protest and persistently trying to bring down that state and its stability, comes here and tells us that there is no state in this country. It's unforgivable for me. Mr. President, I would like to commend your ailing towards the representatives of the opposition, that positive kind of discrimination, not to ask for this vote, but to listen a little better in the future, because it's outrageous that someone here says there is no state here today, and that's exactly who have been undermining it for days.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15052	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. It is not about discrediting or discrimination, as you said, but simply, both MPs of the position and MPs of the opposition, if you noticed, had one broader context of looking at what are today's agenda points. And I didn't want to apply double arches, I made it possible for MPs and MPs of the opposition, because, as one of the previous speakers said, the subject is of exceptional importance and importance. Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15053	For the sake of seriousness, I'll only tell the facts. During the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Institute of Blood Transfusion was leading at the time and producing during that period. The only one has part of the possibility of francing blood plasma and making albumin, the only one in Serbia. Blood and plasma were used, or used today, for therapeutic purposes. But what we've noticed is that not enough amounts not used for therapeutic purposes can only be used to make concrete albumin. What's our goal? These albumins made by us are much more quality and much cheaper than imported albumins. Our goal is to make as many domestic albumins as possible, because that's better and cheaper for us. One of the reasons why we're going with this bill, we couldn't trace where, who, when you have this much, 60, 70 centers, where and how much blood there is, where and how much plasma remains, and we couldn't make the most of it to do this. So we go to a unique information system so we know where it is, that we can plan, that we can take it to work and improve it and that we will. The frog would also be if we invested in the Bureau of Transfusion, when you don't get the material to work, and this is a prerequisite to get it to come together there, that at any moment you have an overview of how much you have and what you can use to do it. As far as the pharmaceutical industry is concerned, I'm the first to advocate the domestic industry, we don't have that dilemma, that's what we've seen from work so far. We're moving on to Torlak, I think we've made this clear why and how. Torlak when I came to the minister's place was once-footed already sold. We stopped the sale of Torlak, he stayed there, he started making vaccines, he started making flu vaccines, and he restored some of the production he wanted to do. The most important thing is that it wasn't sold, it wasn't given, because it was supposed to be sold and destroyed. How, why is it, how much was destroyed before all of it to sell itself cheaper, it's clear to everyone, that we're not getting into it now, it's not a topic. We did an analysis for Torlak, made a plan and program, it takes 40 million euros or dollars, I don't know exactly, to make Torlak the world's top five. So you can't invest until you do an analysis, until you do what its potential is. We finally do it, we'll go that way while we're here, Torlak sure won't sell and I'll protect him absolutely, because I want to make sure we have our vaccines. We're open to markets, not to speak now where we can export everything and keep it for us. The second thing, we have vaccines that we have to import right now, which we don't make, they're absolutely going through everything that's necessary. I'm inoculating my child. I'm not really gonna give it to my child. It's the same vaccine. What's the point? The goal is to strengthen our pharmaceutical industry. For what reason? I think we should think about one thing here, see what's going on in the region with the health systems. The health systems in the region are in pretty bad shape, not to say in bad shape. We give our experts here, I'll give you exactly three, four examples. There's no one in Montenegro who does heart surgery, our people go out of here and do heart surgery. Our neurosurgeons are also operating in Montenegro, operating both in Republika Srpska and Bosnia. Macedonia has a problem, they come to us for human education. So these are all things that we need to think about, so that it doesn't happen to our system, because if it happens to us, we're gonna have a hard time finding someone to help us. So our strategy is also with these over 2,000 people we want to take to health, to keep our system absolutely stable, so that we can help others, simply, we are, who need help without talking about patients, the most difficult patients in the region who end up with us. We have the kind of system that we have, rarely where you find such a system that it covers so much with that amount of money, 250, 260 euros, that we give per capita, our patients get more than they give per thousand and more euros per capita, which means only mandatory insurance, and for everything else, they have to pay. It's very important for our people to know these facts, because until we lose something, we don't know what we had. It's beautiful, it's a popular story that everything should be free, everything should be like this, it can be like this. But to ensure all of this, everyone is aware of how expensive health care is, to make that system work, it's not a bit easy. I repeat, look what's going on in the region. That's the facts. What I can say is, we're not going to do blood transfusions at any time, this law goes to strengthen the institutions and make as many of these derivatives as we need here. Here, I also told you about Torlak what we did. So we're doing a little bit more work, and we're talking less. I said what we stopped and what we did. So all we care about is what the patients feel, what they say, and what we leave behind. Everything else is less important. Everyone's goal is to take this whole thing down, because when you take down a health care system somewhere, you take down that system, there's no dilemma. A lot of people are trying to do that. A lot of people want to, but we're gonna fight, so what happens?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15054	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15055	Dear Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, today we have had the opportunity to discuss proposals of two good and quality laws. When I talk about the proposal for a law on biomedically assisted fertilisation, it is obviously a product of desire to create the best possible conditions for carrying out biomedical assisted fertilisation in accordance with the most modern achievements of medical science and practice, but also for its implementation to be uniform in the entire territory of the state. After years of application of the applicable law, it is evident that there is a need to improve and specify the existing conditions of the organisation itself, as well as to monitor the performance of this activity. Also, the proposal for a new law extended the definition of the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation only implemented by the applicable law in case of infertility, while the new law also extended to cases of the existence of medical indications for the preservation of fertility, and private practice is given the possibility to be included in the provision of health services of this type. This bill introduces one important newspaper that allows couples who successfully complete the biomedical assisted fertilisation procedure to present the remaining frozen untapped early embryos they no longer need. This is the possibility of couples who don't want to throw away untapped embryos, because after five years at most, if they don't get back into the body of a woman, those embryos are being destroyed. This newspaper, which provides for the possibility for untapped embryos to be given to couples who have a problem and cannot get their own cells an embryo is commendable, since in this way such couples are given a new opportunity to reach the desired offspring. What is extremely important is that the embryo donation process itself is very detailedly arranged by this bill. The proposal for a law on transfusion medicine is, as well as a proposal for a previous law, well done. Since I had the opportunity to follow the public debate of both draft laws implemented in Novi Sad, I must commend that you have observed a significant number of proposals and objections, including them in these two documents. What I must commend first of all is the fact that this bill provides for the inclusion of a clinical transfusion, providing for the direct participation of a physician of a transfusiologist in the process of treating each patient in particular, which will significantly reduce the number of complications, as well as the number of serious adverse events and reactions that may arise. The paper adopted by the new law is that, instead of the present large number of hospital and transfusiological services that have been involved in the collection and processing of blood, which is, we must admit, an expensive and irrational system, there will be a smaller but optimal number of authorised blood collection, processing, testing and distribution centres. These centres, unlike the current situation in this area, will be interconnected to the information system, will be complemented in their work, so that no one will be able to ignore the needs of others, as has happened so far. Finally, as I have already said, because of the quality of both the legislative proposals and the important newspapers they bring, the Socialist Movement Group – The People's Peasant Party – the United Peasant Party will vote and support it in the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-21-0.u15056	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby conclude a common principle search. We continue our work on Tuesday, 25 April 2017, starting at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
