ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17621	The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have submitted amendments to all members of the law, and in this way we have made our position in general on this law, that is, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. Article 1 should be deleted because it is unnecessary, because you have provided for a European Integration Ministry which is absolutely inappropriate and is impossible to function as provided for in this Bill. The very way of proposing legislation, including Article 1, we are talking about amendments today, and we do not have the opinion of the legislator of this bill, which is truly unusual in parliamentary practice, even here. It should have been done, as we should have had the government's opinion, regardless of who the proposer of this law is, or this proposal, we had to have the government's opinion on it, in particular, we also talked in principle about whether Ana Brnabic, who is appointed prime minister, wants just like this composition of the government, whether she wants exactly this kind of ministry, whether she wants the competencies of the ministry provided for in this law. This is simply placed upside down, and this only speaks in favor of what we have been saying from the very beginning, that, in fact, Aleksandar Vukic, who suggested Anna Brnabic, took responsibility for himself to edit the government through his MPs, which is absolutely not possible. It's possible, obviously it is, but it's not in accordance with the Constitution and it's not in accordance with the laws. As it is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law not to obey the will of the assembly majority, and we remember that when most of the talks, or the largest party in the Assembly, spoke with Vukic as president, they asked that he be a candidate for the prime minister from the Progressive Party, not someone who was imposed by Vukic. So you've turned everything around and set things upside down, and we think that this member, like the other members, should not exist, but should all of this go back into constitutional frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17622	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17623	The promoter is, however, right, and I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17624	Anyone else from the proposer? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17625	Thank you. To save time, I agree with most of what my colleague Radeta said, it's more or less undeniable. I would only be apostrophe of what we have already said and in the principle debate, on the one hand, we have concrete statements that the government should be smaller and smaller and promises that the government will be smaller. The government is not smaller, but every new SNS government is always for at least one or two resistors bigger or at least one or two ministers bigger. Of course, it's not crucial, and I said I don't mind introducing the Ministry of Ecology, maybe it could have been done before, and we also support this subsequent mind that it still happens. As far as the European Integration Ministry is concerned, we are against, and not only because of our Euroscepticism, but simply because we believe that, given the current stage of negotiations on Serbia's EU accession, and given the situation in the EU itself, and because of this, we have repeatedly expressed, skepticism or at least very modest enthusiasm, at least those speakers of SNS counterparts in terms of European integration. Finally, and most importantly, given the division of the Serbian public, Serbian public opinion on the matter, I think it is pointless to lead the ministry of European integration and raise the office to rank the ministry. This is particularly awkward at the moment, and otherwise some of the countries that have become EU members have had it, some have not had it, so they have entered the EU and without that special ministry. The general seriousness of a country is seen by the fact that it does not change the list at any moment, namely ministers and resors, and that stable countries and stable democracies have more or less so. In particular, the asymmetric status in which Kosovo and Metohija are now run is difficult to defend, especially from the ruling majority, who at least declares not to give up and deny KIM. In this regard, we believe that this amendment should first be adopted, this new Eurointegration Ministry should not be introduced, and in particular, we will explain this in the next amendments, when it comes to creating this proportionality between the KIM Office's status and the newly established European Integration Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17626	The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17627	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I cannot agree with representatives of the Serbian Radical Party and counterpart Gjorge, although I would like to be in a position to support some of their proposals. On Saturday, a colleague, Martinovic, held a shorter hour to Vojislav Seselj, where he explained to him what he needed... (Zoran Krasic: What is he talking about? ) On your amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17628	Ambassador, if you yell again, I'll punish you. I've never done it before. Leave the MP to speak. (Zoran Krasic: The story of a man who is not here. You're talking about Wolfie, and he's not here. Please, peace. All the people in politics can't get into this very room. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17629	On Saturday, fellow Martinovic held an hour here, a colleague who subsequently left this session, I guess he couldn't understand what is currently a reality. As for the observation that the number of ministries is large in the draft of this law, I have the opposite opinion, even I think it is small and that there should have been many more ministries. The SRS are getting it. A colleague...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17630	MP Stojmirovic, please explain. Let the MPs of the SRS shout and earn...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17631	Let them win, there's no problem, that's their right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17632	But the dialogue that you have, you can do it outside the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17633	I don't think there's any need to get excited about what the number of proposed ministries are, because it's going to be a daunting circumstance for those who have proposed this and their value, or the quality of the work will be appreciated for the realisation of the objectives set, not for the number of ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17634	Thank you. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17635	Thank you very much. Although I think it could have been based on the right to the replica, but it could've been this way. So, of course, I call not to accept these amendments that call for an erasure of Article 1 and that I am in agreement with the motion that we need a member like this. Since there was a call here to distinguish between the different arguments of arguments from the different proposings of these amendments to Article 1, I make that difference. I make a very clear distinction between those who have suggested less, so we suggest more, already used to jumping into their mouths and those who are calling for the Constitution and the laws, and we have seen exactly, fellow Stojmirovic, how they do not understand each other. It was seen on Saturday during that debate and leaving the big rally. So it's absolutely pointless to talk about someone wanting to challenge the number of ministries with an argument -- there will be more of them than there have been, and then I suggest that a new ministry be introduced. Did one of the motions of this amendment sign an amendment supporting the introduction of a new ministry? If it is, and it will be, we've all seen it here. Let's not waste our time on wasteful stories. We're really dealing with this here, and we'd like to discuss things that are important to the state and that this society really needs. It also includes the proposed new ministry to deal with environmental protection and a new ministry, which will therefore address issues of European integration at the level of the ministry. What we have done so far in the way we have done so far has been in line with the needs of those jobs we have done so far. Today when we have 10 open negotiating chapters, when we have two temporarily closed, when the new chapters are ready, I think three are just waiting for the proper consent of our partners from the EU. As far as Serbia is concerned, Serbia is fully prepared, there is a new dynamic, a momentum in these affairs, and it really needs to do some level that corresponds to the level of the ministry. So, this Article 1, and everything else, of course, needs to stay, and as far as most people's will goes, let no one worry ahead. The will of the majority, if they have not heard it, may not have been heard by those who are often in the hall, will be clearly shown in the Day of Vote and be sure, the will of the majority will be strong for these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17636	Here you are, Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17637	No, Mrs. Gojkovic, I answered the line. Mr Stojmirovic made a clear and loud mention of the SRS in a negative context. I, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, am entitled to respond in accordance with Article 104. Is it okay, replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17638	No, it's not okay, since you haven't read Article 104 to the end – who decides to apply Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17639	Will you allow me the right to reply?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17640	So, Article 104(3), I'm not allowing you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17641	Okay. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17642	Sit down. I'm subtracting two minutes from your group for misappropriation of the Rules of Procedure. Marijan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, would you please sit down so I can... Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot accept the amendment that explained the lottery winner, did not buy, but he got, for the simple reason he spoke of the Ministry of European Integration as unnecessary. The man forgot who his party boss is, call the parties and move. It is a person who, when she was an MP at the time of Vojislav Kostunica's government, was on the Committee on European Integration. (Zoran Krasic: Is that an amendment? It's quite an amendment. It is unacceptable that someone who entered parliament with the help of the party who gave him the boss who went to the favorite Committee for...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17644	Ambassador, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17645	I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17646	There's nothing about that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17647	A colleague spoke – the ministries in Article 1 are added.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17648	To get rid of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17649	He said they're getting wiped out. The European integrations bother him even though the president of his party was an active member of the Committee on European Integration, a feasibility study. They initialled the SAA, etc. It is unacceptable for me that the lottery winner, who has received obvious amnesia that he won the lottery, proposes an amendment like this, and I will not vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17650	Rules of Procedure, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17651	I believe you've injured Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of Rule 8 which states - in the case of the position of the 7th member of the National Assembly, it is required that the time used by the MP using the right of the position of the 1st member be taken away from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda, if his parliamentary group has remaining time to search. You have put in practice here that when you do not want to hear a different opinion and you believe that MPs, based on reports of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, are taking two minutes away from the parliamentary group and you have now said that you are taking two minutes away from the parliamentary group. The Rules of Procedure do not give you the right to take two minutes, but rather the time the MP used to abuse the right. The MP is right, if you're counting all the time, he used 41 seconds ago, so you can't take two minutes but 41 seconds, if you're already using this right from Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17652	Thank you. You're wrong, and you also abuse the Rules of Procedure to say... . They'll vote, of course they'll vote. It's the only democratic way to assess someone's work. It's not estimated on the street, of course. Zoran Krasic throws. Don't throw it away. You're on the verge of me giving you your first sentence for disrespecting Parliament. Can I finish? By giving a political assessment that I won't hear the opposite. On the contrary, I've never heard of it. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is no different, because if it comes to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, then it is already, you yourself have said, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The abuse of the Rules of Procedure applies exclusively to the violation of the Rules of Procedure to respect or disregard the procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure itself. Marco Djurisic throws. Thank you. I've taken up the time I think it's being taken away. I don't count seconds and tenths. Would you like to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? We'll certainly vote. Here you go, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17653	Mrs Gojkovic, you have injured several members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, among them, I can say, first of all, free to say, Article 27, which says – the President of the Assembly represents the Assembly, invites meetings, chaires them and does other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. That's what's key. You, Mrs Gojkovic, did not do this and you violated Article 103 and Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I came forward a little while after Mr Stojmirovic said offensively about the SRS parliamentary group. I answered, listed a member of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of which I was reporting, quoting his provisions. You interrupted me, said I had no right to a replica, took two minutes from the SRS parliamentary group, although I did not spend nearly that much, and as a basis cited in Article 103(7). Article 103, paragraph 7, says that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to abuse the rights provided for by this article to a national MP who does not adhere to the provisions of Article 1, 2, 4, 6 of this article or in another obvious way. Paragraph 1 states that the Messenger of the people has the right to point to a violation of conduct. I'm the one who pointed it out. Article 2 says that it cannot be pointed to the injury already indicated. That's not the case either. Paragraph 4 says: The Messenger of the people is obliged to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured. I've listed a member. Item 6 says, if, even after explaining the president of the National Assembly, the MP believes that the injury was done, he may request that the Assembly be made known in the day of the vote. You didn't even give me that right, so I couldn't even break it. You cannot ignore reality and facts, what the whole nation has heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17654	Thank you. You've exceeded the time of two minutes and five seconds. Thank you. You have now committed abuse of the Rules of Procedure, you have referred to members who before you have used Marko Djurisic, and you are also immediately before that. These are members of 103 and 104, and you made up that I was invited to some member and attitude 7, and I called on Section 104, and so did you, but you didn't read it until the end. I'm not gonna take two minutes and five seconds away from what you said, so we're gonna figure it out at that time you were taken away at the first... Nemanja Sarovic: Beat it? No, I don't beat anything up, because I don't understand the language of certain MPs... Nemanja Sarovic: Which dictionary? )......................................................................................................... which is declared a tent in parliament. (Radoslav Milojic: What does tentarian mean? Those who use it know. You come to meetings more often, so you know what is and what is. (Radoslav Milojic: I am in every session.) () Yes, thank you for your support. Thank you for telling the citizens you're coming whenever you want. I ask him to enter the record of everything the MPs are getting to see what sessions look like from the perspective of someone who runs these sessions and how MPs behave. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17655	So this is a replica, given that in an inadequate way they speak of the head of the parliamentary group. I don't think this counts in time. The point is that we sit here on committees that we think are competent and that doesn't mean that we agree with the name of that committee at all. Fellow radicals, I hope they won't mind me, are active participants, members of various committees, from European integrations, even delegations to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and have the attitude they have. So membership on the board could be an opportunity to criticise its opinion on EU or NATO policies to the Alliance. Every chance should be used. I just think that colleague Natasha has also used this opportunity very often. So being a member of a committee can't be disqualification. Secondly, I didn't want to follow the Rules of Procedure, but I would ask you to intervene in the future when any nicknames, euphemisms are used to mark anyone. You know that and we can, more or less smart, stupid or funny, but that's not gonna get us anywhere. We listened and last time we had different nicknames from tuta Bulgarian, Vlach, anyway. So it's simply a way of calling it inappropriate to parliament. Don't think we can't do it either, but then this will turn into a circus or reality, as some here have come from reality and reality more.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17656	Well, now you've ruined everything you've said.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17657	Okay, maybe. I'm sorry, it's just a replica. Now, for the few who listen to us, about what is said here, I would just answer the remark, that's what went too far, do I mind, what is proposed to abolish one ministry and introduce someone else? No, our position is also to be precise about it, we suggest not to introduce a new ministry, not to raise the Office for European Integration in the ranking of the ministry for the reasons we have cited and which we will state. If you're already doing this, it's not any... That's logic, then we say, if you don't accept it, think about the option of raising the Office for Kosovo and Metohija in the rank of the ministry. That's what this is about. I've been over two minutes, you're giving me more time, but I'm not gonna waste any more. Let's just get this straight for the colleagues who have some misunderstanding about it. It is not against being politically and logical against the introduction of a new ministry and at the same time arguing that if it is adopted, someone else should be adopted. So we think that the least we can do is have parallelism even though we don't believe in this parallelism. We do not believe it is possible to go at the same time to the EU and defend Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, the policy of this government shows that it is not possible. Come on for comfort, and the policy of the previous government has shown it, although they have also talked about how they are progressing on the European path and defending Kosovo. It's just not possible. We have here a bunch of statements from important European leaders who say – at the end of the road Serbia must recognise Kosovo. That's not what some adventurers said, said important EU leaders, the EU's most important countries, by Martin Schultz, not to say who Martin Schultz, Ulrike Lunaček and many, many others. At the end of the exposure, I'll document it. So it's just not possible. If we're going that way, with this paralysis, then please level and maintain the same rank and status of the Office for European Integration and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. Either put them down or lift them together. That's the logic and that's the meaning of this proposal. As for the remarks we heard in the last session, you know, we can move anyone anywhere. We heard Mr. Marko Djuric was a thousand times, I don't know how many, in Kosovo and Metohija, so he was, and maybe he wasn't. After each stay, I would say, the Serbian state's authorities in Kosovo and Metohija are shrinking. I'd like to remind you of the Brussels Agreement, the items of the Brussels Agreement and the fact, and that's what I'm ending up with. The fact, until the term of this government, therefore your government, Albanians from southern Mitrovica could not come to northern Mitrovica unannounced, and very often at all. Now, after five years of this government, Serbs cannot go to Kosovo and Metohija, they cannot cross the administrative crossing to KIM without the permission of Pristina authorities. It's one of the other things. What about security structures? What about the judicial system in Kosovo and Metohija? All this has been lifted, dear gentlemen, and to this we have committed ourselves to the Brussels Agreement that I have here for those, since the public couldn't hear it, neither in this room nor in this house, and especially in the public and the media to read, but only mutual disqualifications, slanders and insults. We can do it that way, but we want to preserve, as much as possible, and I hope that we have an ally in you, or at least we should have, as much dignity as we can at home to discuss even when we disagree, to make arguments. A colleague made some arguments, he said our position was illogical, that we were proposing the introduction of a new ministry, the removal of another. I explained and tried to explain why I didn't think so. After all, I don't think the end of the world is to have 19 resistors or ministries, far from that, by the reputation of France, which is 19, but Hungary has eight. It does not mean that Hungary is twice as effective now as Serbia, but I think it is very important to see that there is a different practice. In that sense, I'm done. I hope that, below, we will be able to face arguments on other issues. But consider that the states of Serbia in Kosovo today have much less than five years ago and that is very concrete and visible to this authority, along with some others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17658	When you pass two minutes, you go on time with authority, I don't interrupt the MPs unless they ask for it. I'll read in a row about who signed up. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17659	Dear Presidents, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that the amendment of George Vukadinovic be rejected. At the beginning of this presentation, I will immediately say that the SPO supports amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. It is important for us that Serbia gets a new ministry for European integration. We thus send a message where we see Serbia in the future, show a clear definition that we will push for the adoption of European values, that we want to be part of a great European family that will give us a chance to defend our interests through partnership, therefore, in collaboration with Germany, France, Italy and not to count further. After all, economically strong Serbia will be able to protect itself from political aspirations in the Balkans that threaten us. The best relations with great forces, Germany for example, give us the opportunity to be a respectable political and economic factor. Therefore, the proposal to form a new ministry of European integration has the support of the SPO. After all, we have been behind this for decades and for the sake of fighting for Serbia, we have paid a great political price in the west. The recovery of our economy, the Serbian village, the fight against poverty, the white plague, are our country's priorities, and we do not see a better way to solve these problems than the concept offered in the European agenda. We believe that the tasks and jobs of the new European Integration Ministry are of particular importance for Serbia's future, which is why it is fully justified and comprehensive to form such a ministry. The experiences of countries that are newly joined by EU members show that the education model of the special ministry for European integration is the best and most efficient. The message Serbia sends through the formation of such a ministry is very important to us and is a confirmation of the justification of our decades-old struggle. The Serbian Renewal Movement therefore welcomes the fact that jobs related to European integration have been raised to the highest organisational and functional level in the state administration, at the level of the ministry. I will repeat once again that the SPO in the voting day will support amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17660	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17661	Mrs. Gojkovic, I ask you to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly in accordance with article 1 of the 107th. I have recently reported on this basis, but in the meantime you have allowed MPs to speak, although the Rules of Procedure have priority, and I am convinced that you, with your decades-long parliamentary experience, recognize the right of MPs to submit amendments and to speak about amendments, and I do not believe that you share the opinion of your colleague who just said that our amendments and our debate on amendments are a waste of time. I'm really inclined to believe that you didn't hear it, because if you did, it seems to me that you would react, and if you didn't, then that's a really serious problem. The fact that someone has a congregation majority and thinks that at a given moment they can do anything, can't behave, and no one has the right to act in a way that allows MPs who are opposition MPs to refuse to do their job. Only the conduct of this extremely restrictive Rules of Procedure prevents MPs from doing the work we are actually here for, but then if someone else who is part of the government, an MP of the ruling coalition, says that the debate on amendments is a waste of time, then it is indeed a harsh violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do in the future is listen to anything any of us says that you could react in time, unless you share the opinion of your colleagues who think that amendments are a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17662	I don't share my colleague's opinion that putting up with the amendment is a waste of time. The word has been made by MP Vesna Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17663	I do not think that an amendment that provides for the removal of Article 1 should be accepted because, as a member of the Committee on Eurointegration, I am fully aware of the process of Serbia's accession to the European Union, how technically required the process is, complex and I believe that the establishment of the Eurointegration Ministry will only contribute to much more effective work, especially in the situation where we have opened ten chapters so far and when new chapters are to be opened. Opening a chapter means really serious reforms of our society and monitoring the implementation of what we adopted here. This does not require any financial resources because the Office for Eurointegration is certainly turning into a ministry. As for neglecting citizens' interests, mentioned in the amendment, I just want to say that in the past 15 years Serbia has received from the EU funds of three billion euros in grants, that recently Minister Joksimovic signed with Johannes Han to get Serbia from the IPA funds, these are grants from EU pre-accession funds, 95m euros. This package is actually support for the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as local self-government, which certainly affects regional development. Citizens can sense concrete benefits from Serbia's accession to the European Union this way, so I do not really agree with the neglect of citizens' interests. Our goal is certainly to introduce European standards in all areas and create a stable business environment, and the message we send by opening chapters, we are actually sending it to foreign investors that will affect the improvement of our economic environment. I believe that the introduction of the Eurointegration Ministry is very important because it sends an unambiguous message not only on the importance of the Eurointegration process for our country, but also points to a clear foreign policy definition of the Serbian government, which is certainly Serbia's membership in the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17664	The word has Stefan Miladinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17665	Thank you, Your Honor. When it comes to our colleagues' proposal to delete the proposal to introduce a new ministry, the European Integration Ministry, I would like to say that my first pleasure is to have a very good debate and this is an extremely important political issue. There are serious reforms ahead of us when it comes to Eurointegration. There's a lot of work ahead of us. We have opened ten chapters over the past period, two of those ten temporarily and closed. I believe that the formation of this ministry can greatly contribute to one of the key foreign policy objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are Euro-integration, being realised more effectively. I truly believe that the mechanism of the ministry itself can contribute greatly to working more efficiently in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17666	The word has Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17667	I would like to say a few words about this European Integration Ministry proposed for this future government. It is very interesting that this ministry has been proposed in a country where it seems that the version of Eurointegration that exists has received some completely incredible and new form, a new form. In order for this ministry to make sense, it is necessary for Eurointegration to bring the country or flow in such a way as to bring the country into that state, either in that form or in that kind of arrangement that exists in countries that are already in the European Union, especially countries that are long in the European Union. (Zoran Krasic: Romania and Bulgaria. ) They are not long, Mr. Krasic, in the European Union, but only a short time. Please don't throw it away. We'll talk later on the break about it. However, it seems that Eurointegration has turned into its opposite. Instead of preparing for the country to be in the European Union one day, Euro-integration has turned into a process that prepares the country to be exactly the opposite of what exists today in the European Union. I'll give you a few examples of that. I would like to discuss this in the light of the authority or the ingenuity it has or which the Ministry of Eurointegration might have. Chapter 23 regulates the rule of law, justice and corruption in the process of Eurointegration is the head to regulate, for example, a case such as Savamala. To remind citizens who may not yet have heard of it, the Savamala case is one in which, contrary to the principles of rule of law, one part of the city is wrongly destroyed. That was over a year ago, Mr. Krassic. If that happens again in this country, will the ministry...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17668	Ambassador Vukadinovic, I speak to you, you now approve of this release from the amendment completely and of talking about who knows what? I'd like to consult with you because you gave me a lesson on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17669	I'm running out of time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17670	Your time is running out. Everyone's time is running out, especially the parliament in this session, if we treat the procedure like this. I'm absolutely powerless here. I can only enjoy everything that's going on here. Ambassador, go back on the subject or, if you've exhausted everything you know about this amendment, allow me to move on and save valuable time for something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17671	I'm talking about the Ministry of Eurointegration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17672	Yeah, but it's got nothing to do with this, this is politics. Never mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17673	And Eurointegration is politics, if you didn't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17674	So, Article 1. The bill is deleted. I'll interrupt you, you can't move on unless you want to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17675	I want to talk about the ministry proposed in Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17676	Come on, please. Several ministries in Article 1 have been proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17677	I'm only talking about this right now. Can I talk about this ministry? So, the Eurointegration Ministry was proposed. My question is, if a case like Savamala happens again, that part... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17678	The list is full – Marijan Risticevic, Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Djordje Vukadinović and has now blocked the opportunity to return the microphone to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17679	Turn on my microphone, I've got an advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17680	Here, now come in, Gjorge Vukadinovic has given up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17681	Tell me, is there any words here that are forbidden in this National Assembly or what is this about? Can you hear the argument, to assess whether I'm speaking according to the subject or not? Here, let me repeat the argument. If a case like Savamala happens again in this country, where, during one night, an unauthorized and unauthorized part of the city, which is not possible in any European country, a member of the European Union, without consequences, what authority will the Minister and the Ministry of Eurointegration have for such a case? That's, say, one question. The second question...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17682	Ambassador, I must interrupt you, not just for your sake, but for the other MPs here. If you want us to turn this parliament into a story about everything and everything, I don't mean what you want, I'm not excited at all about the mention of Schiller's, how they earn, the collapse of the building in Schiller, that's what MPs on the right, or what you're saying, on the left. That doesn't touch me at all. But we have a concrete debate. I'm not talking to you at all, I'm asking all the MPs to listen to me, to agree on how we're going to work today. I'd like to do the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say – when the debate on amendments is, the MP is obliged to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17683	You've already spent two or three minutes on me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17684	I didn't spend anything on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17685	You've spent two or three minutes on me, and otherwise you have unlimited time to talk. And to me, which I have limited time, you take my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17686	I'm setting a five-minute break until the MPs come around and figure out what we're supposed to do today. So I have requests not to impose penalties, but the only sentence is perfectly understood here, and when it is taken away from the salary, then the MPs want to argue on the amendments, and when I ask them nicely, the dictionary of the application, then no. And that's the truth about the work of parliament in Serbia. [[after breaks]] Here you go, Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17688	Tell me, President, please, how much time do we have from this general discussion?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17689	Everything is returned to you, if it's really the most important thing in the world, then just to deal with time alone, it's automatically coming back. I can't explain to you that I'm not taking the time or adding.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17690	Okay. If time wasn't so important, you wouldn't have interrupted him so often. So, to explain once again, I am talking about the Ministry of Eurointegration proposed here in Article 1. I guess the powers of the Eurointegration ministry will be Eurointegration, I don't know what else they would be. One of the topics of Eurointegration is the rule of law, justice and corruption, that's chapter 23. The rule of law, to inform you immediately, also involves property relations, i.e. If somewhere it says it's property that I have, that I own some property, the state should protect me from anyone who wants to alienate it from me or destroy it. Now, let me go from this to the one I just wanted to mention. You all remember that more than a year ago, a part of Belgrade without any legal authority was destroyed in the middle of the night and that we still have no court resolution. Although the former prime minister only said it was something that was inadmissible and that it was something that would have to be sanctioned. So my question now, if something like this happens again in the future, don't God, but if it does, will the Ministry of Eurointegration have any authority to initiate a procedure or initiate a procedure or initiate any investigation, set up a commission or anything that would lead to the resolution of such an unkind event? Will the European Integration Ministry, in other words, protect property rights as an integral part of the Eurointegration process? Here, so much for that. I hope it wasn't too bad. There are other examples. For example, in this chapter 23, the area of judicial reform also includes the choice of judges and state prosecutors. Do you know how they choose today? They're chosen by some kind of list, some rules that bind the bodies that propose to us selecting these important civil servants, and then these bodies of the State's Major Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary make their list of judges exactly the opposite of what these rules require. So, judges are chosen by some criteria that are completely non-transparent. My next question is about the European Integration Ministry. If, God forbid, it happens again in the near future or in the future, whether the Ministry of Eurointegration will have any authority to prevent such a choice of judges and prosecutors, or to return it to review, because if it does not have those powers, as Mr Krasic so-flirressed, it doesn't make much sense. What do we need from the European Integration Ministry if it will close its eyes or turn its head from the election of judges who do not comply with European standards. I'll give you two more examples if I can, very brief. In chapter 10 and chapter 23, there's also something called free media. Is the state of the media in this country today, which is the state in which the most important medium, the largest medium, will not discuss almost any of the issues that are important for Eurointegration...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17691	Member of the Commission - No one can interrupt a speaker except the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17692	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17693	You're obliged to speak according to item one only on the agenda. The agenda point is Article 1. The bill - it's deleted. Your discussion shows that you do not want to talk about why to delete the intended ministries provided for by the bill. In Article 1, I am obliged to use Article 106(3) and to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17694	If that's what you have to do, what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17695	I have to use the Rules of Procedure because you're not talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17696	The story, here, I was just about to score. Can I ask you a question? If the European Integration Ministry, which is being created and future, will tolerate such restrictions on media freedoms in the country in which the ministry is located, then what is the purpose of the euro integration ministry. Well, here's the mention of the European Integration Ministry six times...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17697	We don't have the Ministry of Eurointegration yet, we don't have anyone who can answer that question right now. Remember the question, when we have that ministry, for now you support the amendment that needs to erase the possibility of getting it. Thank you very much, I have to interrupt, because you don't want to, and by Article 106(1), you're talking about the agenda point. Thank you. The word is Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17698	I would like to support this amendment by my colleague Vukadinovic, because he is completely explained. So, introducing new Eurointegration ministries, so you're sending a message. So far, we have had a level of relations with the EU through the European Integration Co-operation Office, which has led to today's mainly technical issues regarding Serbia's preparation for the negotiating process in certain chapters. By raising relations to the level of the ministry, you send a certain message. So it is important for Serbia to organise this work through the ministry which can be interpreted in the translation as follows. Leading EU members such as Germany, France and Italy and others immediately after Kosovo's declaration of independence have recognised Kosovo, and from these leading EU countries daily messages arrive that Serbia will have to recognise Kosovo's independence on the way to European integration when it comes to the end of the negotiation process. The official government in Serbia rejects such proposals and says it is of great concern to Kosovo, that it will do everything to ensure that Kosovo never becomes independent, but it is more important to adhere to leading EU members who have already recognised Kosovo and who say it will have to do so, so that they raise the level of relations with the EU to the ministry level, rather than to raise their operationality in terms of implementing policies towards Kosovo and Metohija to the ministry level. I'm sorry, that doesn't make sense. If on the one hand you say that you care about state integrity, that you want to do everything you want to do to preserve the southern province of Serbia, that you will do everything you can to help the people of Kosovo and Metohija, then I guess it is logical if you have already done, if you want to make a ministry of European integration, to do so with the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, how it used to be in some normal governments that ruled this country. On the third hand, there is no logic at least in today's current political moment to form the Ministry of European Integration at the moment Europe faces its own future and that it absolutely does not know which direction it will go. Following last year's Bregzit and UK announcements and preparations to conduct EU unbundling negotiations and growing Europeanpcitism in all EU member states, it is very logical to expect that EU disintegration will take place, rather than there will be some cohesion factor and possible strengthening of the EU. After all, announcements by EU officials that no one will be admitted to the EU before 2025 and the announcements of the officials mentioned that we will be conditioned with the recognition of the independence of our territory's work are likely sufficient reasons for Serbia's and Serbian government's and Serbian policies not to rise to the level of the ministry. What we need to do, to develop good European relations, but we cannot send a message that it is more important for us to conform to the views of the leading EU members leading Kosovo towards independence, rather than to make a story in which Serbia will lose part of the southern province.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17699	Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17700	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will be extremely brief. Short because due to the limited time of our parliamentary group, but also because I believe that such amendments do not deserve a long and very comprehensive debate at all. Of course, I suggest that these amendments, these amendments in the text, be accepted, I repeat, because of citizens – are deleted, therefore very creative amendments. It is quite clear, and from the debate, we could all conclude that it is not at all about the wishes of the amendment's promoters to supplement something, to improve the law, but it is about trying to write in order to make an amendment – it is deleted, to create a time, or to get two minutes, to get back to who knows which way to repeat the same silly phrase again and again, what we just listened to to, and who knows what else. So, I'm not surprised, given that their only common denominator of hatred for Alexander Vukic, who exhibits in every place, is completely unsuccessful. For all these reasons, I suggest we reject this and all the other amendments in the text - delete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17701	The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17702	I thank the chairman. I will also be brief, and I just wanted to feel the need to talk about this European Integration Ministry, because I would only support my colleagues who have discussed the positive implementation of the ministry. As Serbia's EU accession is also very important to open chapters and close these chapters and work, and ultimately on some of the things that may be put before the Republic of Serbia for the first time, and in close connection with Eurointegration, I believe it is necessary and absolutely justified to introduce the European Integration Ministry. The Ministry of European Integration will carry out the tasks of the state administration and related professional affairs, and I, as part of the proposal for this law, would not repeat what these jobs are, all taxed, which will regulate this area. So, I believe that the amendment proposing to delete a member whose ministry would be abolished, namely that this ministry does not exist, I do not think that it should be accepted, because first of all, we want Serbia to develop faster and better on the road to EU accession, which is one of the strategic objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17703	Marijan Risticevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17704	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm a little lost in order, I'm in order, and you're in something else. I continue to insist that we do not accept this amendment, especially about eradicating a member, which is why some of the MPs, Mrs Radeta, are patient, don't throw it away, I never throw it to you, in a relationship, I'm not talking about your parliamentary group, I'm talking about hypocrisy, a certain parliamentary group that forgot about Oli Rehn in 2005, forgot about what -- it's feasible, so at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, where they came to the People's Assembly in elections, which is legitimately, certain MPs, forgot a part of their past that speaks of their success on that path to European integration. The heads of individual parties or movements, and for the party they cannot collect 10,000 signatures, and today they are categorically against European integration, and then they were in favour. They are now against the fact that there is a ministry of European integration and all the worst talk about the EU, but when they exercised power, they spoke best of the EU. So I will give an example, they did not enter the Committee on European Integrations, when they were in power, only out of curiosity, but let me agree with that, but if someone went to the place of Ambassador to Rome, Mr Martinovic, did he go to the place of Ambassador to Rome out of curiosity or was it his desire to see Rome, the salary of 5,000 euros and, behold, when they lost power, he was no longer the current Rome, and now they have a real Crime. That 5,000-euro salary has never been paid back. They forgot the 2007 initial. The SAA agreement, and that SAA agreement says that foreigners are allowed before we enter the EU, which is invisible in all EU accession countries, that real estate sales are allowed before accession, and thus foreign land. It was initialled by the government of Vojislav Kostunica and today many who, by means of his party or by the continuation of his party or by what remains of his party, and here in the Assembly, forget that detail. The second parliamentary group is opposed to European integration and does not have enough rule of law. The rule of law implies and does not put pressure on the court and the prosecution, which is what he's been doing by mentioning to a man, and I, unlike them, asked a nice question for India and nine collapsed buildings and wild construction and received the answer that since 2007, he's been squatting in the prosecution for organized crime and that nothing's been initiated and I don't think of pressing the justices that they reformed in 2009, as far as I remember. Finally, I believe why the professor is concerned about European integration, because if we join the EU, then the same rules will apply to university diplomas that are often mentioned. Namely, the professor who now escaped this heroicly in front of me graduated from Soros University in Hungary, which Orban abolished. If those diplomas are abolished, he will only be a high school student and a designer technician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17705	The word has Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17706	Thank you, Chairman. I propose that the proposed amendment is not accepted for the simple reason that Serbia also needs European integration and needs the European Integration Ministry. Why does he need the EU and why do we need EU membership? First, because 72% of our exports go to EU member states, because we have the highest percentage of investment from the EU, because we want to live in a country where the standards that exist in EU countries will rule in the most developed countries of today. Now, we've heard these voices that say that Europe is going down, that the EU is going down and we see somehow that these people are looking forward to something from their point of view happening badly and that Europe is supposed to collapse. We are looking at the previous months, the elections in Europe have shown that it is far from the European Union collapsing, it is stronger, it is going forward and I am confident that Serbia will continue its European integration at an even faster pace than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17707	Excuse me, MP, someone's using a card on Natasha Jovanovic, she's not in the O.R. Please check, since it's not allowed under the Rules of Procedure. So, Natasa Jovanovic is in the system. People's MPs are getting it. All right. I apologize to you. It says Natasa Jovanovic. (National MP: There are two Natasha Jovanovic) I know too. Don't yell. Go on, I'm sorry, I'll give you five seconds back.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17708	Thank you. So, we don't want Serbia looking forward to bad things in Europe, we want Serbia that is looking forward to opening factories, which is looking forward to opening jobs, which is looking forward to increasing wages and pensions, which is looking forward to increasing standards, opening new boulevards, releasing new highways, bridges, etc. That is what we want Serbia to do, because Serbia that will live like this should be in the EU and should be part of the united European peoples' community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17709	The word has Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17710	Thank you. We, of course, support European integration. They would be very happy and happy if they were truly implemented and if they were to go much faster, I will use your pre-election slogan “Swifter, Stronger and Better”. So, the establishment of the European Integration Ministry is also okay, if it will speed up European integration and give them true meaning and we believe that employees in that European Integration Ministry will also be financed by the George Shorosa Open Society Fund, as in the Ministry of Local Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17711	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17712	I thank the chairman. I don't know how self-called Europeans imagine the general processes of European integration, when they deal with certain individual cases in the area of justice and consider it a fundamental imperative of the rule of law. The European Commission has explicitly said what it thinks of Chapter 23 in its report and says Serbia has done much more than expected, especially when it comes to this chapter. The ministry that is being formed and will be in charge of European integration is, in fact, one of the mechanisms that should unite the work of the former institutions and bodies in the European integration process. With this unification, in fact, the model used by many countries that have done the European integration process, such as Slovakia, Slovenia, Poland, Hungary and as we can see, has been very successful in implementing the integration process. Today, when we talk about the business of European integration in general, it is malignuous, especially those who advocate anti-European integration, that Serbia is on the way, that it should be measured together with one England, that it should come out of these processes. This shows their hypocrisy, because then they would not have their children educated in those countries, but would educate them in Serbia, if they were just presented as people who want Serbia's national interests to advocate here in Serbia's parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17713	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17714	I'm still calling for her not to be accepted. All sorts of things, really, we've heard here in the last hour on the other side of the hall, and before anyone starts complaining about what kind of reason they're gonna have, let's just remember a little bit what we heard and what I mean when I say -- all sorts of things. Like this, there's nothing to do with this bill and there's no undeniable solution. One question: whether representatives of European institutions, as we heard earlier, had said hardly and insisted that Serbia must recognise some independence, so-called. independence of Kosovo. There's also ignorance and trendy performance. But if someone didn't understand Urlike Lunaček and Mr Schulc, they came from the position of the MEP, so no one who represents a single parliamentary group can hold their own political position, to be a substitute for European institutions and to say now – the opinion of that lady, that is the opinion of the European institutions, and that must be the case. There's nothing to do with reality. If someone doesn't understand it, maybe it's a problem that I could accept, but it seems to me that here, he doesn't really understand the essence of things, and he doesn't understand what I'm talking about. If that were the case, why would there be any dialogue at all? It may not seem illogical to have a dialogue on something, if everything is settled in advance, said, and there is nothing more to be done on the subject. Of course it's not too difficult to draw and the conclusion that it isn't, as soon as that dialogue exists. A man must try to think, some here it's an extraordinary effort. Absolutely cannot be seen by the MEPs as the opinion of official institutions. We have spoken here many times, pointing to the fact that there are Member States. Some Member States think one thing, some think something else, but what is our framework is in no way endangering Serbia's sovereignty. Yes, this job can be run after European integration successfully, while at the same time safeguarding sovereignty. This was also shown by the government formed in 2014 and the Government formed in 2016. That's what citizens see and understand. If it is not understood by someone who is unable to accept the result in some elections, democratic elections and 2014, 2016 and 2017, it is his problem, but it also really burdens the National Assembly and our citizens when it makes its stories empty, we explain more every time. It's a waste of time, as much as anyone doesn't like to hear it, but good is not controversial. We can deal with that time. The matter of jurisdiction, I'm off to a university professor who understands everything, but it seems to him the only topic and content of the Savamal, whatever is on the agenda, now on the subject of the ministry, yesterday when we talked about the samamal farm, so Savamal, tomorrow when we talk about, I don't know, the nuclear program will be Savamala again, so Savamala, but it has nothing to do with the powers of the proposed European integration ministry. What kind of argument is that? Could he have read the contents of the bill, read where they were beautiful, precisely explained this planned workaround and the ministry's jurisdiction? Was that hard? I don't think that was hard, ignorance, laziness, so all together, and that's what the score is. The justice of the ladies and gentlemen, is there a land in order that some say they want to be done. Whether there are independent bodies, whether these independent authorities are dealing with it or now, imagine this, nots again, it's about a professor from the university, that now some newly established ministry, the European Integration Ministry, will take over the responsibilities of other ministries, and that it solves both instead of independent authorities and an independent judiciary, where he saw it, who heard it, what they teach students, if that's what I can't understand. On the subject of this rule of law was fully at the site of counterpart Tomic's remarks. Is there a report by the European Commission, whether they are publicly available, whether there was a chapter opening in June, whether it is possible now to be better than the European Commission, what she thinks or what she should think, knows some MP here, university professor or not. Completely pointless, completely irrelevant, even when it says it supports someone on the other side because it supports European integration, and at the same time I haven't heard that professor say he supports any amendment, any European integration. People agree, I said here a month ago -- an official website, a statement from that organization, which I don't know what is, is a group of citizens, a community of citizens, a private club, young philatelists, who are the devil? The organisation's official website says -- they are pushing for hitchhiking European integration, freezing it, and doing nothing for a year on this issue. They agree with me, agree, stand up and say – yes, it is our policy. What they say today – we are for European integration. Are we or aren't we? Or when they stand up to discuss an amendment that is proposed not to introduce the ministry, whether or not they are for it or the essence just to further explain to us how they do not understand the matters of the ministry's competence, whether they are for the EU and its institutions, or whether they are independent of the judicial and other bodies. So, the European Integration Ministry, of course there was and of course there was. There are different models, it's called exactly that way, it's a different aspect somewhere, but it is the same kind of business, the same kind of integration, before or after gaining full membership status. There are such ministries and they deal with European affairs or European integration. Here, let's say Romania's closest example. That's the name we had there. Even today, several examples can be found precisely in European countries where there is someone who deals with the resolution, these issues and this problem at the level of the ministry. Now, what does one teach students that doesn't exist, that we're making up something now? Well, it wouldn't have been a success for advanced integration countries if they hadn't adopted and applied some good models. Serbia would not be as successful as it will be, do not doubt at all if it is unable to learn, think and implement these good methods to make it both more successful and efficient, yet all in order to benefit the citizens of Serbia. It seems that those citizens of Serbia in this room are the only ones who care about us on this side, because everything else I heard just now has nothing to do with citizens or anything else until someone here sings a little bit more. He's right, colleague Risticevic. There is a question of honesty and political attitude much to do with what we are listening to today. Yes, it is appropriate to challenge the proposal's intentions, e.g. Asking a question – and what is his political position? Yes, membership in some committees, representing a political stance publicly, but secretly, is a matter of the credibility of the promoters. For example, membership of the Committee on European Integrations of Representatives of some of the parliamentary groups there, e.g. the MPs' groups of Tadic and Jeremic. What does this have to do with this story that it is against European integration? Well, it has direct connections. We have, on several occasions, listened to our ears that as a member of the committee, in a conversation with European officials, that someone says – you know, I am not against Europe, no, I'm just a little Eurosceptic, I'm just a little Eurosceptic, but I'm not against Europe, and then here in the hall or citizens out there at a rally or at a press conference – ma, no Europe, ma, all against it. Chuck, what was the latest version? I almost heard, they're not even Eurosceptics anymore, now they're Eurorealists.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17715	Ambassador, I have to stop you too. Come back, please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17716	I want to explain why the argument has nothing to do with the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17717	I got it all figured out, just focus on Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17718	On the subject of the matter, Madam President, as certain things are presented here, and it has to do with this representation of political attitude, euphemisms and nicknames. I think it is totally unacceptable for us to hear again about the protection of Kosovo and Metohija by those whose representatives are on these committees, and at these meetings with European officials, to use these euphemisms and nicknames, but imagine what, for AP Kosovo and Metohija, we hear them say -- Pristina, in fact, Kosovo, Kosovo and Metohija, in fact. I made a mistake here, and I made a mistake there. Do they advocate the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the Republic of Serbia or do they show good will to balance a little, to be lenient in that attitude, and when they meet someone? He's right, colleague Risticevic, asking these questions. At the very end, as far as Serbia is in Kosovo and Metohija, no one on the other side knows better than Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You heard them loud and clear. But if anyone here is willing to show that he was a good student of Edith Tahiri, all but his faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17719	I ask the MPs to report for the word, not to win. They'll get a chance to say what they want. Gjorge Vukadinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17720	Thank you. A lot of that stuff's been said. I almost agreed with the comment of a fellow SPS colleague who seemed to have us praised by the debate as serious and responsible, but it seems that we then made an effort, at least some colleagues, to deny it, but nevertheless, this is an important political issue, an important political issue. It makes sense to talk about it, it's just a question of how we talk about it, but, of course, it's a picture and an opportunity and every MP and every MP group. First, one thing in principle to discuss, since it concerns directly our work or the minority of the greatest part of our work here, which is to criticise the amendment proposal and the formulation "expect". Dear colleagues, and that would certainly be the president and as someone who has a long parliamentary standing here must know and warn, it is not obstruction if you say - delete. If you have a bad bill, if you have a formula that you disagree with or a proposal from the ministry that you disagree with, then what else are you going to say and how will you formulate it rather than - is deleted? I mean, it's a very constructive proposal if we're arguing with something that we disagree with. It's about these things. Secondly, of course it is an opportunity to declare the views of individual parliamentary groups around European integration. I, I must admit, didn't understand what a young colleague on the other hand was trying and insinuating. It is quite clear that the position of this parliamentary group and of me and of my colleagues and, above all, to say the presidents of this Parliament club, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, and while she was president of the DSS today is consistently Eurosceptic. That insinuation of what was who and where he said, I think it was the president's duty to warn, especially when the previous speaker spoke more than inappropriately about someone who was a woman, a lady, an honourable MP and a respected expert in both this public and this Parliament, who was exposed to disgusting attacks and disqualifications because, imagine, she performed the duty of ambassadors. Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić was the subject of the attack. At this point, we have an ambassador to countries that have recognised Kosovo. Over 100 countries have recognised Kosovo. In most of them, we have ambassadors. I don't understand. What are they supposed to do now? Maybe that's what it's supposed to be. But it is quite clear that the position and the DSS while being led by Sanda Raskovic Ivić and the position of me and us as MP is consistently Eurosceptic, but we are not Eurosphobes. We really respect some of the important assets of European civilization and culture and human rights and democracy. That's why I'm probably friends with the DJ, and I don't want to be their lawyer, so I guess their colleagues are paying attention to inconsistencies. Euroentusians, or support European integration, but draw attention to inconsistencies. And I am against it, as I said, for reasons of the situation in the EU, for the reasons of the situation in Serbia and because I simply find it unacceptable that this symmetry is created between the proposal to introduce the Ministry of Eurointegration and these laws on Kosovo and Metohija. In that sense, I ask Mr. Martinovic directly, I want him to answer me, if he wants to, why is this parallelism abandoned? Why euro integrations are rising to the ministry's rank, and for example, the Office, and they were in the same status, remains in the office for Kosovo and Metohija. If you are so consistent in this struggle, why did you sort of degrade the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, which existed in the term of several governments? On the other hand, it is not a problem, we can join the EU with the EU office. There's no need to raise the rank of the ministry. I understand that it's some kind of message, some kind of recommendation, and that's kind of an insane way to do it. They were mentioned here, I was quoting some names. I'm told by colleagues on the other hand – that doesn't matter, their opinions are irrelevant. I would remind you, the facts and the public are working, regardless of who they love or do not love, Mrs Urlike Lunaček is the rapporteur, so she is not an ordinary MP, she is the rapporteur of the European Parliament for Kosovo. Secondly, does anyone say Kosovo, Kosovo and Metohija, Pristina, etc., Mr Martin Schulc was the president of the European Parliament. Finally, I have here a statement, to you colleagues on the other side of the very dear Stefan File, a great friend and current government and prime minister, that is, the President, who pleaded with you a few years ago for leaving the formulation – the territorial integrity of Kosovo, since some have proposed, even some of our friends, there are, of course, in the European Parliament, proposing to leave out of the resolution on Serbia – the territorial integrity of Kosovo, and Stefan File has challenged it. So, what I'm saying is, a whole bunch of important European statesmen and politicians are simply telling you directly and explicitly -- you're going to have to recognise Kosovo at the end or during the process of Eurointegration. We can't all pretend to be ignorant. I really must say, he's not here, Cedomir Jovanovic can say it consistently, I disagree with him, but I am surprised at you or at least most of you who are indeed declaring that you support Serbia's integrity and are fighting Kosovo's independence, and as I said, Kosovo is becoming less and less in these five years of your authority, or Serbia in Kosovo. Don't take my word for it if I said Kosovo or Kosovo and Metohija or Pristina. It's perfectly clear what we're talking about. Whatever they call this progress towards independence, with great help and support from our current authority, which I end up with a plan to develop the Brussels Agreement, so the plan to implement the Brussels Agreement has made a commitment to things, with us and the Brussels Agreement not very well known in the public, and where the plan is implemented, where, unfortunately, it is ugly, but clearly and loudly says that Serbia's security structures in Kosovo will be withdrawn and fully integrated into the relevant Kosovo structures and their salaries will be paid out of Kosovo's budget. So, Serbia's security structures will be fully integrated, and that's done, and we presented it as a victory. Worse or even sadder than that, by the end of the current year, not this year, it is unfortunately also done, the integration of judicial institutions will be completed, all institutions of the Serbian judiciary in Kosovo will be closed by then, all institutions of the Serbian judiciary in Kosovo, do not write to Kosovo and Metohija, and even if it does not help us much, they will be closed by then, and new bodies will be established and staff integrated into the Kosovo system. That, dear colleagues, is in the text of the application of the Brussels Agreement. It's an epilogue. So I ask Mr. Martinovic, regardless of what we can call ourselves and call ourselves such and such names, what does he have to say about it, is that the reason for this asymmetry in the treatment of Kosovo and Metohija in practice, not rhetoric? The rhetoric is sometimes even exaggerated, but in the practice of the government's operation, and on the other hand we have the degradation of Kosovo and Metohija... the rise of European integration. If we're going to join the EU, we're going to enter with the Office. If they won't see us, they won't see us and we'll make three ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17721	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17722	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the leader of the Sandinist movement was not only a Eurosceptic, he was an ambassador because he was a Eurosceptic. Just to remind you that he was so Eurosceptic that even at the invitation of Vojislav Kostunica to return after the breakup that the DS, to return from Rome, did not want that Eurosceptic. So it was more expensive to keep 5,000 euros and Rome than to return at the invitation of your party president and stand up for Crimea. So much for consistency. As for KIM's defence practice, it is enough to state in 2004, that the party did not lift a small finger to protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and a large part of the wall's salaries to them, or to their non-reaction and carelessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17723	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17724	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to agree with a little earlier speech, or a colleague who just spoke. Of course it makes sense to talk, it's just a question of how and what way. One of the colleagues who participated in the discussion is, I think, taking advantage of the qualification of a normal government. It is this normal government, as much as our memory serves, that has come to power on the EU's wings in Serbia. What does normal government even mean? There are political parties or coalitions that participate in parliamentary elections, those who get greater support forming the government. Does that mean they're normal, and what about those citizens who voted for other political options? A smaller government does not mean a more effective government and more efficiency. It is important that we know what we want and what kind of Serbia we want and what are the goals we want to achieve in the next period of time, because we have one, we said it during the debate in principle, a very good basis. It is important that through the amendments and additions to the laws that we are talking about today during the debate in particular, we establish a good basis that will allow for the realisation of these declared objectives and principles in the next period. This is about erasing Article 1, the accent is put on the European Integration Ministry. Deleting Article 1 means not only forming a ministry for European integration, but not forming a ministry for the protection of the environment, correct me if I am wrong. The European Integration Ministry means, for a little while, a colleague, Stefana Miladanovic, better co-ordination on the way to European integration and better organisation of work with the same number of employees. The issue of results that Serbia has achieved on the path of European integration has been raised here for a little while, so that these results are not visible, positive and recognizable, new chapters would not be opened. A little while, my colleague Filipovic seemed to be talking about economic parameters when we talk about relations with the EU, and he's absolutely right. So, two thirds or 67% are exported and 20% are exported to countries in the region, but those countries in the region are also on the path to European integration. When we talk about the environment ministry, we said that during the debate in principle, Serbia has done a lot to improve environmental protection, but we also believe that the potentials are great. To make use of these potentials in the right way and in full capacity, it is important that we form a Ministry of Environmental Protection. This topic is complex and complex, demanding, demanding high standards, regarding all of us and the formation of this ministry, Serbia shows that it will work towards increasing the efficiency of environmental protection, but also on increasing the negotiating potential on the path of European integration, because one third of the rules, it seems to me, is precisely about protecting the environment when we talk about harmonising our legislation with EU regulations. Chapter 27 also concerns environmental protection and should be used properly by EU funds when talking about environmental protection, as some data suggest that Serbia should invest around $10 billion in the next period to improve environmental protection. We believe that these are just enough reasons not to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17725	I'm sorry I didn't give you my word. I've forgotten that you're an authorised representative, that's what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17726	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Since I've been asked an explicit question, let me answer. I now have to ask you a previous question – whose MP are you and whose MPs are you? For me, as the legislator of the law, it's clear whose MP I am. I am an SNS MP, selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins. For Martin Schulc, it is so clear whose MP, the Social Democratic Party MP, is Germany. For Mrs. Lunachek, it is also clear whose MP, the MP of the Greens, but I do not understand whose MP you are and whose MPs you are. Are you the MPs of Mrs. Raskovic Ivić, are you the MPs of Vuk Jeremic or are you some other politician? If you are the MPs of Vuk Jeremic, I hope you remember that negotiations with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina were led by Vuk Jeremic, but unlike Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic who did not have the courage to directly participate in these negotiations, Aleksandar Vukic had the courage and the courage to participate directly in these negotiations, and your presidential candidate, who won 5% of the votes, has led the negotiations with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina through political director of the foreign ministry Borko Stefanovic, and you may now be MPs of Borko Stefanovic. So you have a question of political identity, of which you are MPs, of which you represent politics and of what you really stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17727	MP, as an authorised representative of the amendment, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17728	Since we have time from...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17729	Do you want to use the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17730	Yeah. So for all these messengers, it is clear to whom they are, it is not clear to you alone whose MP you are and which policy you represent. You asked the question – why is there no KIM ministry? To remind you, the KIM ministry was formed in 2007, and KIM minister was Mr Bogdanovic, who was then in the DS. The KIM Ministry has formed, for one single reason only, to achieve some kind of political trade between DS and DSS. In the first government of Vojislav Kostunica's RS budget, 400 were allocated, so letters and numbers, 400 million dinars for KIM. You asked the question here, where are the Serbian institutions at KIM? If you had read the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, compared to your 400 million dinars for KIM, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Alexander Vukic, it proposed, and this Assembly adopted the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, compared to your 400 million dinars, 5,709,854,000 dinars. Supporting the functioning of institutions, I say this because of the citizens of Serbia, I am not saying this because of these politically undefined MPs, I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, so that they know that the state of Serbia is present at KIM, that the state of Serbia is operating on KIM, to the extent possible, in accordance with Resolution 1244. I'll explain later to you something about this famous KIM ministry, you who defend KIM from Old Town and Vračar. Therefore, support for the functioning of institutions and organisations in the territory of AP KIM, 3,684,687,000,00 dinars. Support for the functioning and improvement of local administrative capacities 3,243,704,000,00 dinars, support for the functioning of educational institutions in line with the network of schools and preschool institutions. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is accompanied by teachers, educators, teachers at KIM, who pay salaries from the RS budget, in which your media tycoon, Aleksandar Rodic and his "Kurir", do not pay a single dinar. Therefore, you and your media sponsors are in no way helping the functioning of the state of Serbia on KIM. You're the last one who can discuss this. But because of Serbian citizens, for them to know, the state of Serbia, whose President Aleksandar Vukic, stands out 185,744,00 million dinars for the functioning of schools and preschools at KIM. These people are paid every month for salaries, contributions to pension, health and disability insurance from the Republic of Serbia's budget. And then you say -- and where is the state of Serbia at KIM? In Serbian kindergartens, in Serbian schools. Where is the state of Serbia at KIM? Supporting the functioning of health institutions, according to a network of health institutions, 19 million dinars. Who pays Serbian doctors, who pays Serbian nurses for KIM? The state of Serbia. You're asking where the state of Serbia is at KIM? In all health institutions where Serbs are being treated at KIM, the state of Serbia pays them. So, we're at KIM. Support for improving the quality of life of the Serbian and non-Albanian population on AP KIM territory, 2,025,167.000,00 dinars. Incentive to economic development, almost 200 million dinars. Construction and reconstruction of residential buildings 454 million dinars. So much was your total fund for KIM at a time when you ruled this country, and now the state of Serbia, only to build housing in KIM, stands out 454 million dinars. Provide legal assistance to the Serbian and non-Albanian population of 11 million 600,000 dinars. Support for the socially endangered population and the return process 239.366.000,00 dinars. Support to civil society organisations 34.630.000.00 dinars. Here's your country of Serbia at KIM. Protection of cultural heritage, support for the Serbian Orthodox Church and cultural activities – 279.740.000.00 000 dinars. For the internal affairs sector 214,109.000,00 dinars. In total, therefore, five billion and nearly six billion dinars of the Serbian state alone in 2017 stand out for Serbian institutions, for Serbian people, for Serbian doctors, for Serbian teachers, for Serb nurses, for Serbian children, for Serbian priests, for Serbian monks at KIM. Therefore, the state of Serbia is in KIM and so is present. As far as the KIM Ministry is concerned, you're asking questions as to why we've proposed such a law on ministries, let me tell you something. For SNS, KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and there is no need for a specialised ministry to deal with one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. According to your logic, then we should have the Ministry of Vojvodina, the Ministry of Belgrade, the Ministry of Swords, the Ministry of Pomoravalje, etc. It doesn't occur to us. Each ministry and every minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for KIM, so each ministry is responsible for KIM, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. If we had accepted your logic, then formed a ministry for KIM, then we would have sent a message that KIM is not an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, that it is some, that sometimes old lawyers would express the corpus separatum, a separate part that has special status. We are, in this way, showing that for us behind this bill, KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and as far as we are present at KIM, I hope that you are a reasonable enough man, that through these figures you can certainly see. To the gentleman, who sits behind you all the time and who probably thinks he is very smart since he is a professor of Serbian language and literature, at least that's what he writes, I advise him to read a good book by Dragisa Vassic, "The character and mentality of a generation", and in that book, Dragisa Vassic, published after the First World War, will read what atrocities the Bulgarians were doing in the territory of southeastern Serbia, the same ones whose fellow MPs he received several days ago in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Read a little. You say you're a great Serb, you're a great Christian. You have proposed here a resolution condemning the crimes of genocide against Serbs in the territory of an independent Croatian state. Dragisa Vasic ended up as a victim, one of the last victims of the Ustasha camp Jasenovac in April 1945, so if for no other reason, then at least take for that reason and read the book of Dragisa Vasic. I don't think it will come to you after that that you are no longer in the People's Assembly receiving people who demand that parts of Serbia be declared Western Bulgarian provinces.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17731	Rules of Procedure. I won't give you my word if you insult the messengers. If that's an insult cover. The MPs know what I'm talking about. Nemanja Sarovic: I don't know. You don't know. I know and I see. There's no replicating any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Allow me, colleague. First injure the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17732	Mrs. Gojkovic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the 27th, which says that you are looking after the application of this Rules of Procedure and that Article 106, which says, is injured – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted and you are very rigid when it comes to MPs of the opposition. However, a little while when Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic spoke, you allowed him to talk about everything and everything, to talk about who should read which book, to read items from the budget that have nothing to do with this debate that we are having, to talk about, to imagine who - the soldier about the cutback, Martinovic about political identity. He asks the question of the political identity of other MPs, the story of Martin Schultz and the political party Martin Schultz comes from. What does that have to do with the Ministry Act? Absolutely nothing. What does it have to do with the subject of the agenda? Absolutely nothing. But you let him talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it. The only thing he didn't touch was the topic we're really discussing today, and you were obliged to interrupt it, warn him, take away his word. Does he speak as a promoter, whether he speaks using the time of the parliamentary group, it is completely irrelevant. He's been wasting time on a subject that has absolutely nothing to do with what we're discussing and that's a fact. I ask you to be much more rigorous towards the ruling majority's representatives in the future because they are the ones who are always discussing beyond what should be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17733	Your Honor, I couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, not a member of the 27th or a member... . You said something about a member of the table... Which one?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17734	I not only said, I also quoted Article 106 of attitude 1 that says – the speaker can only talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17735	Don't quote. I understand you perfectly. Don't yell. Be patient. I'm bound by the Rules of Procedure to give you an answer. Be kind and polite to let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17736	I think I'm very polite and kind. Ask your colleagues. I think I'm the nicest.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17737	I'll wait for that kindness of yours to shut up a little bit. So the 27th member did not listen well to the discussions of the other MPs. Martin Schultz was mentioned as Mrs. Lunachek. You must listen to the discussion that you know what anyone is saying when it comes to the discussion of previous MPs who spoke and mentioned the discussion in the European Parliament of those and these MPs. That took a while. We started at ten. So, until he started talking, we listened to discussions in the European Parliament for two and a half hours. So you have to listen to what it's about. We'll work as long as you want. It's not a problem. Will you let me extend the time? As you can see, MPs use often authorized time and move on to group. So he also has the right to speak as authorized and to move on to the time of his group. It is by no means different from you who do so very often, as well as other MPs. If you think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, we'll put it to a vote and hear what most of the 250 MPs think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17739	Thank you very much. Who else wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Vladimir Orlic, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17740	Madam President, section 103, and let me tell you right now, I'm actually very pleased with the explanation that you just gave to the MP who advertised the Rules of Procedure here. In fact, you've given quite a good explanation of what's been going on here and what's been discussed today, and what the MP has failed to hear because he wasn't in the O.R. That's why I'm telling you right now, I'm not asking you to give me a vote on what I'm talking about here right now. I just wanted to draw your attention to that attitude 8 in Article 103. I think it was entirely justified to apply the measure set out in this attitude 8, and that measure says – when there was an obvious abuse, and this was a case of just abuse because the MP wanted to replicate in a certain way to Mr Martinovic, however, it did not look like anything, it was half a sentence, but it was an attempt. I think there was enough space in the Rules of Procedure to be adequately punished, that is, by his parliamentary group. How? By running out of two minutes to argue. Otherwise, it wouldn't be too harsh if you were worried it would be. He wouldn't, because apparently that debate officer isn't interested. He wasn't even in the O.R. because he wasn't interested. I assume he saw political wounds in the club rooms, angry wounds...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17741	Ambassador, please, just about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Let go of those grades of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17742	Why am I saying this? So you can apply this, so you don't worry. If we apply it, I'm sure we won't make any mistakes, and they'll continue to suffer what Aleksandar Martinovic did the next few days. They will anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17743	Thank you. If I were to apply the Rules of Procedure so strictly, I think I'd be alone in the O.R., honestly, with a small portion of the MPs, I apologize, not all of them. (Goran Bogdanovic: Replica. You have to answer it. I can't follow the screams - replica, replica. Sign up for me. Replic to whom? (Goran Bogdanovic: Aleksandra Martinovic.) He directly mentioned me. People's MPs are getting it. Don't yell. For that there are vice presidents, chairing to consult with them. The lady is not the chairman now. She went down to the bench. The Ministry was mentioned. Please, but let me consult with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17744	Thank you, Madam President. Listening to Mr. Martinovic, it turns out that literally from 2012 onwards, the Serbs at KIM began to care. I will remind Mr. Martinović that even before 2012 we paid very much the salaries in education, both in health care and teachers and doctors and all other workers who remained after 1999 in the area of KIM. We even introduced a new norm that we paid workers who worked in state and social enterprises where they receive and today so-called today. Kosovo supplement. Simply, for the sake of truth, Mr. Martinovic, I think this relationship and the use of Kosovo for daily political purposes and the story that this government only takes care of Serbs in KIM, that this is the government only pays the wages, that this is the only government that pays for social benefits, child benefits, is absolutely false and I don't think we should use the accident, first of all Serbs in KIM, to politics in this way. And then and now the salaries are paid and then and now the Serbs are taken care of in the area of KIM and I don't see any reason to list the items in the budget, in this case the KIM Office, because I can also read here, unfortunately I don't have the time, how much we have been from 2009 to 2012, how much the budget amounted and what we invested in KIM space and what we all contributed to, first of all, that Serbs in KIM, survive and live. Of course, what's most important is maybe the Serbs in KIM, which is the same today, that security, unfortunately, we neither have been able to improve, and then and now, there's a trend of moving with KIM, only unlike the last time, is now more intense, unfortunately, much larger from the north of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17745	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17746	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I may not fully agree with many debaters, and even from my parliamentary group, I am not someone who is very interested in European integration. I don't have any emotional relationship with whether we're going to get involved or not at all, but I am deeply aware of one fact, which is that if we stop European integration, it'll be a disaster for this country. Completely a disaster, because when someone tells you – so they will eventually ask you to recognise Kosovo's independence, so they will. They will probably ask us that, but so will you who have deeply embedded us in this Euro-integration process, you knew that when most of the EU countries recognise Kosovo's independence, so you dragged us into all these European integrations, and today they would like you to come out of there, when you made the country dependent on it. Now, that's irresponsible. In doing so, you're asking to wipe out that ministry. First of all, you can't because you've set it your own time as the strategic goal of this country. Once you set this country's strategic goal, although you have brought more than 160 and some different strategies that have never been applied, and there you have seen all the irresponsibility of all your governments before. But every prime minister you've chosen, from Djindjic, Zivkovic, Kostunica, and beyond, all had the priority of European integration in the exposé. (Zoran Krasic: Zivkovic did not have one. He also had Zivkovic. Read him his exposés.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17747	Ambassador, please conduct the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17748	I'd like to ask you if you can do it without throwing it away. Since this is the country's strategic goal, it is normal for you to have a ministry that deals with this strategic goal. It would be extremely irresponsible not to do that. You who are against European integration, I will say - I am personally against it. Maybe I'd also vote in a referendum if one day you'd be against entry. Let me ask you -- what are you offering citizens as an alternative? It is a key problem that none of you can say – and what are you for if you are against it? A Euro-Asian union says, and where does that exist in our area? Sam Putin told us it was unrealistic for us to be members there. Ivica Dacic spoke here that in a direct conversation with Putin, Putin told him it was unrealistic to ever go in there. So let's not say something that is unrealistic, which is surreal. The game is played until the judge plays the end. Are we going to join the EU? Well, who knows. Asking for a referendum today to stop European integration, it is completely insane because no one has offered us to join the EU yet. How are you going to hold a referendum to get in somewhere that hasn't been offered yet? It's completely insane that someone's looking for something like that. And that's ultimately irresponsible. After all, all of you who would stand up to it so radically, tell us where will be these 200 and some thousand workers who work in EU companies who are here? Will you leave them on the street? So tell the citizens -- yes, we want to leave you on the street, 70 and some percent of our economy is co-operating with the EU. It is extremely irresponsible to act by interrupting European integration. It's a disaster for the country. Are we going in? It depends more on political decisions. Will they ask us for Kosovo's independence? Well, yeah, probably will? But let's not be the ones to initiate this problem and to interrupt something because it's our boss here and I don't know what we're making, get to the end or whatever. As for the amendments themselves, when you suggest something – delete. and here you have suggested: delete yourself, to introduce this ministry and the Ministry of Ecology, and ask you to say an alternative and what are you for then? What would you like us to have? The point of politics is that if you're against something, you offer a solution. It's your key problem, all of you who are in opposition. You don't offer people any solution. Why would anyone possibly even vote for you just because you're against Wolfie? You're pointing out terrible problems today...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17749	Ambassador, just get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17750	I'm talking about the amendment right now. So you've proposed an amendment - it's deleted. All right, all right. It's wiped out. What are you offering instead of being deleted? You're not offering anything. You're not offering anything at all. And you're offering to get us into a deep problem as a state, to break the process that you started and put us deep into that process and lead the country to complete fiasco and financial collapse and whatever you want. I'm asking you this is irresponsible. Let's not act like this, but let's actually and rationally approach this problem and the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17751	Thank you. Bosko Obradović, you have no right to a replica, you really are not mentioned. You guys aren't mentioned. You don't have the right to a replica. No, he said your name and name, but he didn't say anything ugly. It's not. He said your political commitment. It's not an insult. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17752	Thank you, Madam President. I'd just like to refer to the fact that I'm looking for this replica because I'm mentioned by name and last name, by Mr. Risticevic, where I'm described, I'm not mentioned by name and last name. So the other day your party boss was talking about wanting to build bridges among people, and you're not just building these bridges, you're burning them all at 16. Every single thing anyone asks you, even if it's a bona fide, you're responding to one terrible attack that has nothing to do with the subject very often. As for what Mr. Martinovic mentioned and asked - what is our political identity? Are the MPs sitting in this parliamentary group, specifically Mr Vukadinovic, MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and who is Sanda Raskovic Ivić, what is she an MP and what is my political chalk? I must tell you that I was the president of the DSS and that even then, just like today, I represented exactly the same political views and that the list that entered parliament had my name, Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić – Bosko Obradović. Furthermore, I wanted to say, apropo Mr. Rističević, who blessed to attack me in parliament when I was unfortunately justifiably absent, which is extremely low and I would say not very knightly, I must tell you that I love when Risticevic attacks me, because it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17753	Time. Thank you, MPs. MPs, Marijan Risticevic didn't mention you. You are attached to the word ‘sandinist’. It has nothing to do with you. It's a party of socialist-orientation character so I don't know where you've identified yourself, but I've given you a replica because the MPs here have spoken of you several times. You don't have to say the name everyone knows who the ambassador was in Italy at the time and you have the right to use the replica in my opinion. What do you want now? As a replica, she just mentioned, I've corrected your mistake. You have no right to a replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure can, and you have no right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 103 and 104. It is the right of the President of the National Assembly to approve or not approve the replica. It's your sovereign right. But some conditions must be met before. Obviously, the lady I never mentioned, who says she was justifiably absent, but something often justified is absent, check the National Assembly records, obviously she was confused, because I didn't mention her name at all, or her last name. I was saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17755	Ambassador, don't talk about what you said, just tell me where I hurt the Rules of Procedure, because I've corrected it and approved a replica based on the address of the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17756	In the act that the replica was based on my presentation, that I didn't mention her name, her last name, or the political party she belonged to, or the parliamentary group she belonged to. Therefore, she had no basis for you to give her the right to replication. However, I respect your positive discrimination. I won't complain about this attitude that I didn't get the right to a replica, even though I was mentioned twice by my name, even though she tried to tell me that I didn't say what I didn't say. But, respecting your view of positive discrimination, therefore, that the opposition has greater rights, I give you the right not to give me a replica, and always give it and always treat the opposition that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17757	Now, MP, really, you're exaggerating in my positive discrimination against the opposition. You made me laugh. So she has the right of Sanda Raskovic Ivić, as well as other MPs, when mentioned several times, to respond once in two minutes, regardless of what your name mentioned. There's no replicas yet. Would anyone like to make an amendment? No, it's my right to give replicas. Dot. If you're going to follow the amendment, you'll get the word. So, according to the amendment, Gjorge Vukadinovic, yes or no? The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17758	Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to use the time of the parliamentary group, of course, to talk about the amendment, but, at the very beginning, to ask myself and you a question, since I belong to the parliamentary group that proposed to delete this amendment, and in the next amendment, I propose an amendment concerning the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, since I am asking myself a question – do I, who live 50 meters from the Ibra River, have the right to propose such things and to take care of Kosovo and Metohija, or does there be anyone more who lives far behind the Sava? I think we should all have equal rights, not be discriminated on in that way. We really believe that this ministry should be formed by this new law. We know that the proposer of this law will, of course, not accept it and it is quite clear why he will not accept it, but there can be no explanation for what we hear from the promoter, that we are allegedly going to recognise Kosovo and Metohija in a way independent of Kosovo, give up that territory, etc. That story could really drink water, if we didn't, unfortunately, on the other hand, by this authority and by the proponent himself, the fact that we in our Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija are inciting, calling on the people, forcing them to go to the separatist elections. And we, instead of building our authorities, our government bodies, our ministries, we're thus building the ministries of the so-called Independent Kosovo and these are facts that no one can dispute. These are sad facts that no one can dispute. What are the facts? Our country and our government are asking our representatives to be ministers in these ministries. Unfortunately, this authority must not make any of the authorities of the Serbian state's administration in Kosovo and Metohija, and hence this ministry. That is the main reason, not these excuses that we will recognise Kosovo's independence in a way that will form a new ministry for Kosovo and Metohija. Speaking of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, here are some flat-rate figures. Mr. Martinovic, no 400 million, I don't know what you've read, I've been president of the Zubi Potok municipality for a long time, and I've followed those figures when it comes to the Coordination Centre and when it comes to one, the other ministry. You may have read about four and a half billion, whether Samardzic's or Bogdanovic's ministry, but it is some four and a half billion dinars of that budget, not 400 million. It would be good, really, if we had a serious talk about those numbers once. Sadly, there is never a time in this congregation to talk seriously about it. I would ask, for example, one question that interests our population downstairs, and that's why we need this ministry -- let's say, a million-euro figure that was transferred, of course to the dinars, the Zubin Potok municipality, last year for, allegedly, some tourist facility on Lake Gazivod. The money was transferred to Zubin Potok municipality by the Serbian budget, and then from Zubin Potok municipality to a company called Radujko Invest, all under the pretext strictly confidential, military secret, etc. We should really talk about the numbers, and you're right about it, but not this way, where we're going to take out some fake numbers and make some parallels where, apparently, sometimes it's not worried about Kosovo and Metohija, it's not funded, and today it's funded. That's not true. The coordination center, that first body, had six billion dinars, and you said, if I'm not mistaken, five and a few billion dinars. So you're telling the truth here, and don't distract the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17759	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need to pass the laws from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17760	Just for a little while, without wanting anyone to get me wrong, two things. The very fact that you are sitting here in the National Assembly as a National MP and living in Kosovo and Metohija is the best proof that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. The second thing, sir, that you just said, don't really get me wrong, but what don't you say in which state authority you worked in, or in which state authority in Kosovo and Metohija you received your salary until the other day when you moved to a permanent working relationship in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Do you work in the IRS? Am I right? Well, how is there no state of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, and there are tax administrations? Then you say - Aleksandar Vukic wants to sell Kosovo and Metohija. This is about any topic being opened, no matter what you're talking about, you actually have one single target, and that's Alexander Vukic. Alexander Vukic brought down the facilities in Savamala, otherwise illegal, and here we were talking about some property rights. Aleksandar Vukic wants to betray Kosovo and Metohija, Aleksandar Vukic wants to introduce us into NATO's pact, Alexander Vukic wants this or that. You can't say anything but that. Don't be hypocritical. You say - someone betrayed Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and you receive up to 15 days ago a salary in the tax administration in Zubin Potok. You say there is no state of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. How is it gone, and you're getting salary from the Serbian budget? You've been elected from the Zubian Strait, and you're an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Who wants to betray you? We mentioned numbers here. So, tell me, please, when in your time has been set aside for the construction and reconstruction of housing in Kosovo and Metohija 454 million dinars? Never. The state of Serbia is building apartments and houses for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and this has not happened in your time. Here, I'll tell you just one little detail of what happened when you ran, not you personally, but the gentleman who said I didn't know what. The service contract of 28 November 2011, you know who was then the minister, concluded between the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, represented by Goran Bogdanovic, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, and the Business and Intellectual Services Company "Euro Balkan Corporation" d.o.o. Belgrade, represented by Zoran Cičak, director. Otherwise, former senior official of the Alliance of Communists Movement for Yugoslavia, in 2000, a man who privatised many companies in Serbia, got hungry, I don't know if there are any MPs from Valjev, and among other things he privatised "Krusik" from Valjev. With it you have concluded a contract to make you a brochure within 15 days of signing this direct number contract, as soon as I see the round figures, I understand that something is suspicious, says – the service user undertakes that within 25 days of signing the contract to make that brochure for, watch out, the brochure, for the purposes of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. The price for the services provided is equal to 500,000 dinars. So to write you a brochure, that costs 500,000 dinars. That's how you cared about the interests of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. That's why you needed the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, with various uncles and others who robbed Serbia in privatization, and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija had absolutely no use for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17761	Thank you. First according to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17762	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure in the work of direct address to the MPs and insults of the personal nature presented by the previous speaker. So, you're really trying, I don't know why you're doing this, making this Parliament and this high house a circus, because you're letting these things be said in parliament, because it's a way for SNS lawmakers to manipulate and lie that they bring to hide the truth that needs to be heard here and to be heard by citizens of Serbia. I ask you not to allow MPs, above all, to address each other personally, to bring insults and not to violate the Rules of Procedure standing here in front of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17763	Please quote me that insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17764	Mr. Ristic spoke to Mr. Martinovic – where you were working, what you were doing, where you are working now, where you are getting paid, who pays you, etc. So it's a direct address to the MP, Mr. Chairman, as far as I know. Maybe I don't understand it well, so I'd like you to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17765	Mr. Alexic, there was no direct address, at least not the way you want to present it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17766	It wasn't? Just because you didn't hear doesn't mean it wasn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17767	So, according to you, Parliament's work is based on the next one. Those who don't support the government can say what they want, whenever they want and as much as they want, and don't insult anyone at that, right, whatever they say, and those who support the government can't answer. I don't understand Parliament that way. It is your right, of course, to submit the amendments "to be deleted", it is your political right, to fight for those two minutes to speak, I do not dispute you. To obstruct the work of Parliament you have the right, and you have the right, but expect these other MPs to have the right to answer you for everything you say. Don't interrupt me, Mr. Sarovic. (Miroslav Aleksic: Don't tell the truth. I just gave you an answer. (Miroslav Aleksic: No. It was a direct address, you can't say it wasn't. ) In the day of voting, the National Assembly will declare your injury to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sarovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17768	I thank you, Mr. Arsic, although you've scared me a little with that sudden address.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17769	I didn't know you were so scary.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17770	Don't interrupt me again. You have injured, Mr. Arsic, member of 106, and I will quote the first position, he says – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. The agenda item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. Mr. Martinovic spoke again about everything and everything, about some uncles, about some 2011 contracts, when he proudly wore a badge with the character of Vojislav Seselj, and it has nothing to do with today's debate, absolutely nothing. You were obliged to interrupt him. So, if he has a desire to express his political attitudes, to deal with political opponents, so television duels are ideal for it, but he's afraid of it. Then you abuse the majority, abuse the presidency, allow MPs of the ruling coalition to keep talking about everything and everything. What did that have to do with the subject? Absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing. If there is any knowledge of crime, the police, he is obliged both as a citizen and as a MP to report it to the authorities. Or your authority isn't working. Why? Here, it's been six years since 2011. Why aren't those people who are accused of crime in prison, here's the first Mr. Bogdanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17771	You've already crossed, colleague Sarovic, time. Nemanja Sarovic: Allow one minute. No, I won't let you do it anymore. Be assured of that. I have learned from your political party president that the best place to put political views is the National Assembly, and I have learned from it and that the Rules of Procedure should be widely interpreted on the subject of the agenda. So ask your party president to teach you, because he didn't teach you well enough. As for Mr. Martinovic's discussion, you have just confirmed everything you have said and your colleague Alexic. So those who don't support the government can talk whatever they want, and those who support should be silent and patient. Mr Martinovic gave his answers to the presentation of several MPs, as a legislator, not only as a member of the parliamentary group and head of the parliamentary group. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yes or no? It's enough to nod my head, I'll repeat it in the microphone. So you don't want to. All right. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? There's a word for Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17772	Mr. Arsic, you've broken the Rules of Procedure once more. A breach of the Rules of Procedure cannot justify a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. The second thing, you asked me if I wanted the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the injury I caused...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17773	Name the member I broke, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17774	Here, I'll get to that in two minutes, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17775	No, at first.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17776	That doesn't say it's in the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17777	But I'm asking so I can get ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17778	And you're looking?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17780	Here, Mr. Arsic, since I am very kind, you have violated Article 27. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is there an obligation for me to say at first which member has been broken. So, I'm obliged to state within the two minutes that it takes to explain it. When I'm gonna do it, it's my style thing, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17781	Mr. Sarovic, you're a graduate lawyer. Right? Now, as a lawyer, you should have learned to write a decision first and explain it, and you want it the other way around. I don't think there's been a breach of Article 27. Rules of Procedure. The assembly will make a statement in the voting day. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17782	Rules of Procedure, Article 103, Article 8. If someone has not mastered it by chance, the rules of the Rules of Procedure have priority. Right? I think, Mr. Chairman, there was room for you to react exactly in accordance with this Article of Section 8, I've already mentioned it today, here, now was an extraordinary opportunity. You gave an explanation to those who were trying to protect some dignity here, too, and you talked about the agenda, and it was all one bad excuse for trying to replicate. We all saw it and heard it. That's why I'm not asking you to vote, I'm telling you right now, but I think there's really a need for us to start applying these measures. For example, I think it's a serious violation of dignity when someone is using the Rules of Procedure to mention dignity, and we all know that this is about someone who violated the greatest dignity of the National Assembly by proposing amendments to Santa Claus. Now that someone talks about dignity, it's a direct insult. You don't have to take any other steps, but the one that means time-consuming, I think you need to apply it now, not to think at all. That someone is talking about the agenda, and apparently they don't even know what the discussion is in detail, or what the amendment is, I think that you right now need to apply this measure for two minutes, because it's an obvious abuse. In the end, someone's talking about some TV duels. It has nothing to do with advertising the Rules of Procedure. I think that's where you should react immediately while telling someone, if he's interested in TV duels, we can find some deputy chairman of the local board of the Serbian Progressive Party, that would be more than a good level for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17783	I understand, Mr. Orlic. Right on line, MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17784	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, I think what Mr. Martinovic is saying is being used to some data and what he wants to hide the truth or some other thing, I am standing here, not just in front of the National Assembly, in front of all the citizens of Serbia, all that I've done, I've done by law and I'm not running away from any responsibility at all. Mr. Martinovic, what you want someone to do with you in the mud together, I give up, I don't want to, but when you talked about all this, you had to go all the way and see what the brochure was written about, as you say...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17785	Without speaking personally to a colleague, Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17786	It's a replica. Who am I supposed to talk to? To you?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17787	You're a long messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17788	Well, I'll do it for you, not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17789	Tell me, I'll tell him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17790	I just, I really don't want in any way, all the things I've done repeat, I've worked in the interest of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, in the interest of the state. If I've broken anything, any law, I'm here, I'm at my disposal. Six years have passed since that time, and I know that coming to the ministry is all paperwork, literally everyone's being intercepted. Here, I'm still standing, I'm here, I repeat, everything I've done I've done in the interest of, above all, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and in the interest of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17791	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go. (Slavisa Ristic: Replica. Why the replica? (Slavisa Ristić: He directly mentioned me. He insulted me. I know, but what if he mentioned you directly? And he insulted you? That wasn't offensive to me. He just said what you were doing. Well, only he wasn't right. According to the amendment, the People's MP Bosko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17792	Dear citizens of Serbia, I address you first in order to draw the public's attention to what the ruling coalition is trying to introduce these amendments to the Ministry Act, which is one entirely to the end of the servicer's relationship with the European Union, so I fully copy the amendment to delete the idea of introducing the European Integration Ministry. If our journey to the European Union lasts 17 years, and we have not moved away from the beginning of that journey, then it is clear that there is no point in introducing the European Integration Ministry at the moment when the European Union is falling apart on our eyes, when it is in a huge financial security crisis, when it has already been abandoned by a large and important member, such as the UK, and other EU member states, who are simply not satisfied with the Central Committee in Brussels and do not want the Brussels Commissioners to decide that they will live across Europe. I have to admit that I find it more interesting to listen to former radicals and current advances, which are bigger Eurofanatics than the Democratic Party and LDP. I understand the identity crisis of Cedomir Jovanovic when the Serbian Progressive Party took his programme and did not take it into the government of the Republic of Serbia and indeed in the race with the Democratic Party and LDP, the SNS wins, the SNS is today the biggest Eurofanatic in Serbia. In this regard, it is also worth noting that such a ministry of European integration should indeed be deleted for the simple reason that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must not turn into an EU service. It is the Serbian government to serve Serbian national interests, not to coordinate its policy with Brussels commissioners who think they will determine that we will live in Serbia. It may be interesting for the leaders of the Serbian Progressive Party to serve the EU, but it is certainly not interesting to any honorable Serb. I can understand that you have certain interests in repaying your debts to those who brought you to power when you were congratulated on winning three hours before the polls closed in the second round of presidential elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17793	What does this have to do with the amendment? Do you know what amendment we're talking about? Ask for a word. (Bosko Obradovic: I know exactly, I talk all the time. I'm perfectly clear. (Bosko Obradovic: What is not clear to you. ) Do you want to continue to discuss or not? No, I don't. All right. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17794	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I am reporting on the amendment, article 1, which proposes the establishment of a special ministry for Serbs in the diaspora and the region. According to the Law on Foreign Affairs and the current Law on the Ministrys of the position of Serbs in the diaspora and the region, they are part of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which formed the diaspora administration as an organ within the ministry. We consider it too far-reaching to raise the issue of the position of Serbs outside Serbia from the foreign ministry, because this is a question in the domain of foreign affairs and it was necessary to integrate this segment into the foreign ministry. All the rights that our citizens living abroad are exercising in other countries are based on international agreements with other countries and diplomatic co-operation with the same. Care for Serbs outside Serbia, care for our diplomacy in countries where Serbs live through diplomatic and consular representations, organise protection and the exercise of the rights of our citizens living in the diaspora. It is therefore logical for the diaspora to be composed of foreign affairs, and it is not necessary to form a special ministry, because such a solution would not be more effective. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has formed the Diaspora Administration as an organ within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where our diplomatic experts work, and this government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs take care of Serbs both within and outside the borders of our country. The SPS parliamentary group proposes not to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17795	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17796	I was looking for a replica, and you gave it to me, it doesn't matter, I've had enough these few minutes. So, colleagues from the ruling party and the ruling coalition, they answer something glued, throw out, how it has to do with what you asked them, and then we don't get a word to answer, not to insult, but simply to answer. In this regard, I would now answer my colleague, Martinovic, that he tells me widely what he is doing and what the state of Serbia is paying for in Kosovo and Metohija. It wasn't the subject of my exposure at all, if anyone else remembers. I only cited very concretely quoting the Brussels Agreement and the agreement on the application of the Brussels Agreement to what the state of Serbia has committed to abolishing. Of course, you've instructed examples from school and health care and what you could do from kindergarten to kindergarten, from mangers to mangers, and by counting from hospital to hospital, to say how it's funded. Right, I didn't deny it. I just said, and you failed to answer, not by chance, that on that list what the state of Serbia, the institution has in Kosovo, there are no more security institutions, there are no judicial institutions, there are no courts of the Serbian state in Kosovo, and there are some other things as well. That's what the point is. So you can avoid it, you can stick labels, you can read things that have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17797	Comrade Vukadinovic, you want to tell me if you know what's written, what's in article 1. A bill of law?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17798	I know, it's my amendment. I know what it says.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17799	Here, I read to you, you asked for the next part of the text to be deleted – in the Ministry Act, so it says, in Article 2 point 3) it is changed and it is said – Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water production after point 3) which reads – Ministry of Protection and Environment and after point 11) is added point 11) of the position – Ministry of European Integration. You want to explain to me, please, or you're going to get a warning because you've been misusing this subject for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17800	So, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to talk about my amendment. Responding to my amendment, Mr. Martinovic said what he was saying. So, I answer to him. I know what the subject is, I know what the proposal is. I was talking about European integration. You can take my word for it, you can do whatever you want to me, as you do, I didn't complain about the Rules of Procedure, and I had countless grounds, I didn't ask for a replica, i.e. I asked, you didn't give me a moment. So here's the opposition, at least this little opposition systematically chicanated, and you pretend to be victims, but it doesn't matter. So, I just wanted to remind you and I'll end it. Yes, Serbia's countries are in Kosovo, there are MPs with KIM, that's nice and beautiful, but the fact is... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17801	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17802	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hope you won't exclude me this time when I remind the entire public of the obligations the ruling party has towards the EU, which is why we support erasing the European Integration Ministry from the proposal for a new Ministry Act. If you have some debts to Brussels, if Brussels brought you to power five years ago, if he congratulated you on winning the presidential elections three hours before the polls closed, then it is fair for the ruling coalition to pay those debts from its pocket, not through the European Integration Ministry in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17803	Mr. Beard, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17804	I suppose you'll interrupt me again...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17805	No, I gave you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17806	A warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17807	Yeah. First there goes the interruption when you're not in the topic of the agenda, then there goes the reminder one, and then the other goes, so there goes the taking of words.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17808	Excuse me, why am I not on the agenda? I'm talking about an amendment that requires the erasure of the European Integration Ministry... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17809	Perhaps you're saying you need out of your pocket to pay the debts you have towards some ambassadors who brought you into this House. So, first of all, do you want to talk about the amendment or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17810	Of course I want to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17811	Then proceed with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17812	What you're doing, Mr. Chairman, is a scandal over scandals. You interrupt the opposition head of the parliamentary group twice, you give me a heads-up over a verbal delinquent, you try to prevent a public debate on the European Integration Ministry...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17813	Mr. Obradovic, I didn't send you to prison for a verbal delinquent, but I gave you a warning, which is why.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17814	You didn't let me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17815	Mr. Beard, I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17816	You interrupt me all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17817	Because the chairman has the only right to interrupt. You haven't learned that from the Rules of Procedure yet? You've got the microphone off, Mr. Beard. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. My colleague Milojic, Mr. Sarovic, wants a word with the Rules of Procedure, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17818	And I've called in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17819	And so are you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17820	The 100th said, if you want to participate in the discussion and in the debate with the MPs, you must leave the presidency. I ask you to consolidate and finally take part in the debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17821	Mr. Milojicic, I give you a reminder. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. (Radoslav Milojic: Every minute you interrupt me... ) Mr. Milojicic, you've received another warning right now. [[There's a fire in the hall.]] Your mic's off. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic. (Radoslav Milojic: I'll punch your tires in Arsic.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17822	Mr. Arsic, member seven has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17823	All I'm asking is for the record that MP Radoslav Milojic is threatening to drill the tires of Vice President Veroljub Arsic. So, it'll cause material damage, and if it does, we know at least who gave the intention. Now, if anyone else does so, so don't threaten to blow through the tires on Zivkovic, then pay attention to Parliament's respects and there will be no punishment. We'll consider everything. The intention is clear what is being done today, at least to me, as an experienced politician, be my guest, wear out your injuries to the Rules of Procedure as long as you want. You have to sign up, I'm sorry, let's start over.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17824	So here we go again, I started a little bit. A member of 107 who says that the speaker at the session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, that no offensive use of offensive expressions and such is permitted. Mr. Arsic said something in my opinion that is an insult and a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. As vice-president of the National Assembly, he practically confirmed what the SRS had previously claimed, which is that representatives of certain lists through foreign ambassadors were introduced into the National Assembly. However, when someone claims it from the opposition, it is one thing, and when it is confirmed by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, then it is another and we need to get detailed information, who introduces it, how it introduces it, and what state this is if it is possible for foreign ambassadors to introduce the electoral list into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That means that 250 of us aren't all MPs here, that some of them are intruders, that they're blind passengers. Let the Assembly, before it moves on to further work, because you will agree that in this state we cannot decide if we have an intruder, if we have people who are not elected by Serbian citizens, then this is a very serious problem for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're bearers of sovereignty, at least that's how it should be. If there are intruders here, if there are some who have passed the Constitution and introduced foreign ambassadors here, let's first clear out who they are, to throw out the intruders...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17825	What does that have to do with any breach of the Rules of Procedure? What you're saying right now, what difference does it make?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17826	What? This hurt dignity and I explain it, don't you think it hurt dignity if the vice president of the National Assembly claims we have intruders brought in by foreign ambassadors?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17827	Time. Thank you. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure, Article 27. (I Nemanja Sarovic: I said Article 107) So, 107th and 27th? Just 107? Please, sit down and be patient. Do you want to vote on it? Yeah, sure, sure. Here you go, Mr. Bosko. You have to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17828	The President-in-Office, I point out the violation of Rule 27(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, in your absence, he was harshly broken and you and I, although we often have various disputes and fierce controversy, never came to a situation that I came to with the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Arsic, who, believe it or not, had given me two notices about a verbal delinquence compared to what I said. I didn't break the Rules of Procedure, in any way I didn't commit any offense, I was just saying what I was thinking. If the problem for the chairman is that the head of the parliamentary group, one of the opposition parliamentary parties, is saying what he thinks and that he gets two warnings, I think that this is exactly what this Rules of Procedure is all about, and that you can correct it. You know that you and I often argue, but that you have on many occasions been able to correct the mistakes made by those who have changed you to the chair. I expect you to do it this time, because there's really no reason for a verbal delinquent to be the basis for warnings. It may be a reason to interrupt someone's speech if it is not in line with something, but to be warned because I said the SNS owed something to the EU for coming to power or what I said, the fact that the EU congratulated the victory in the presidential elections in the second round three hours before the polls closed, Tomislav Nikolic. I don't see what I deserve to be warned about, if I use an argument as to why I agree with the amendment to delete the European Integration Ministry, because it simply represents a certain debt that SNS has to Brussels. So I'm really asking you to correct this group's error in breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17829	Thanks, time. You'll let me take a break from 14 to 15 hours, read the stenograms, and then I'll let you know, everything that's happened in the last hour, I have the right to do that, and I'll let you know by the end of today's decision-making work. Is anyone answering the amendment? (Yes) Gordana Komic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17830	Thank you. My colleague Vukadinovic's amendment is procedurally quite simple. The proposal suggested introducing a ministry of European integration, the MP asks not to be introduced. The debate should take a very short time, for some to say why it's good, others say why it's not good. But the debate we are witnessing, some of us are taking part, and listen to Serbian citizens is anything but short, and all but a debate on the amendment to introduce the ministry of European integration law. Moreover, in this hall where people who know exactly what European integration is, and what is Belgrade-Pristina's dialogue, we deliberately led people astray. Since European integration has nothing to do with dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, except in the process of negotiations with Chapter 35, which has been introduced by content -- agreed, signed and agreed on by Serbia to normalise Belgrade and Pristina's relations. The ministry of European integration will not deal with either Pristina, dialogue, or Kosovo. It is not nice for us here to talk about one proposal – yes, and another – against, and to deliberately enter, I hope on purpose, that this is all part of, how can I tell you, communication – I'm going to throw you a topic, so you're going to get on the subject, so we're going to deal with this kind of, conditionalally speaking, strong expression, backbone patriotism when it comes to Kosovo. I hope it is intentional, because if it is authentic that we do not know that the European Integration Ministry is not concerned, that the head of the negotiating team is not dealing with Chapter 35, then we have a much bigger problem than the idea of the legislator to make the European Integration Ministry be, or rather, the idea of the applicant – not to be. Both are legitimate. What is unsettling for some of us is to discuss why it is legitimate for one and the other to be legitimate for the ministry, and the other against, that we are not using the chance to really talk about it, not to use the chance to really share information about it, that the Ministry of European Integration will deal with, that the promoter explains whether working groups will be left behind in other ministries, that horizontal communication is possible, or that we will do joint damage because we do not discuss how the ministry will be organised. The future Prime Minister and Prime Minister and all ministers should listen to this debate and know what should not happen in the European Integration Ministry. In this case, I support the general idea of being a ministry and being the office's strength for European affairs. I was the applicant of a creative document to establish the Office for European Integration in 2004, but with a really tone of disappointment. First of all, because I think it's been enough time, really enough time, for us to be allowed in 2017 to, instead of talking about the jobs to be done by the European Integration Ministry, talk about what it is to whom it is done in Kosovo and when. It is particularly discouraging that we need internal dialogue on Kosovo. If this is how we think we're taking him, you're gonna kick me out of that dialogue. You will convince me not to tell European friends that I am supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia for all the jobs it is doing to normalise. You will reject me with this kind of spine intention not to talk about whether or not we need the Ministry of European Integration and to promote ignorance about where the dialogue is between Belgrade and Pristina. What's that for? Both the SRS and the DVERI and the DSS and the independent MPs should attend this dialogue. We need all of us to listen to each other and hear each other when it comes to a huge list of jobs for the future European Integration Ministry and an even harder list of jobs for Kosovo. If we're going to talk about the tone I've been here for almost two hours in the future, then don't expect any different results than we do now. I'd especially like to ask my colleagues, who have been condemned here to quote conversations with meetings that are known not to be quoted, not to do so, to refrain from it, if possible. If it's done, that's what we all do, because we all have some informal meetings, if we play, to play. It's unworthy of all of us, regardless of what it says in the Rules of Procedure. I will not support the amendment of colleagues seeking to delete the introduction of the European Integration Ministry. I won't even support the law that you're proposing, because you're leaving me without an answer - what's the ministry gonna do, how do we imagine what jurisdiction is? You left me without an answer for the e-Government Directorate, why there's no surveillance for the management authorities, who suddenly go to the Ministry of Energy. We don't care who leaves me without an answer can't expect me to get a positive vote to... But the fact that I am not in favour of the amendment that my colleague has submitted or I am not a proposal for your law does not exempt me from the obligation to listen carefully to what each other is saying and to conclude with regret that we have again sent a message - that it is more important for us here what we are going to say to each other, but that it is clear to everyone outside this room that we understand the great problem of normalisation and dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, and that we understand what the task of the new generation of politicians is. I think we missed the chance to do it with this debate, too, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17831	Thank you. The word is Žika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17832	Thank you. Like when you're watching a good movie, so when the commercials that last for a long time come, then forget what movie you've been watching, so do I, since I've come to talk on the amendment, and it's hard to get a chance to even talk on the amendment, because of the various demagogues we have the opportunity to listen to these days. I would refer only to the proposal to form a diaspora ministry, fully support the proposal, the decision not to form this ministry, because we have had opportunities in the past to see that this ministry has exclusively served to settle party and political agreements and that it has not justified its purpose at all. The honor of the exceptions, which were found in the ministry, such as my colleague Aleksandar Chotric, Miodrag Jaksic, who did their job seriously, which they should have done. The Ministry of Diaspora and the formation and proposal, which we have had the opportunity to hear and in what way it is explained, is only dealing with one form. The point is that we will deal with and treat our people in the diaspora, and I think this government and this government has shown in relation to everyone else that the essence is even more important than form. I fully support the proposal, so that the diaspora ministry does not form, because we would have one higher cost and a completely unnecessary one ministry, which other authorities in power can carry out. It is particularly interesting, when we see these national secises and the watchmen of the Serbian interest talking about it, and how little they do about their obligations and what they want to do about our diaspora. The Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement, which I represent, hopes that we will continue to deal with the essence, and the bottom line is that we listen a little more to the diaspora, and that in the future, the government that is formed is more working to make the diaspora have a easier and easier right to vote, i.e. to vote over the email and to hear their voice.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17833	It's not within the scope of this amendment. I'm guessing there's an amendment like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17834	Yeah, it was, but I just got a chance to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17835	Thank you. The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17836	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, 107. The Messenger has just called other messengers to the secics. He kept saying the opposite of what the agenda was all about. The warning didn't arrive as soon as opposition MPs were warned. I'd like to ask the President of the Assembly to level the practice. I agree that we should only talk about the agenda point, but you cannot allow one set of arches for the ruling majority, and the other set of arches for the opposition. As we debated the principle of law on Saturday, the ruling majority of the law didn't spend a single word, there was talk about everything and everything, I was the subject, and we didn't discuss the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17837	Saturday was Saturday, and today it's Monday, so I don't remember what happened on Saturday. Ambassador, I think it's three hours very little that anyone's been talking about the amendment. I fight as hard as I can. If you can help me, you can, if you don't, we'll spend time on everything except the amendments, but of your will. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Member of the 103rd century 7 and 8. I suggest that because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, you take those two minutes. Still, to make one correction, it's not said all the time, it's said all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17839	Thank you, MP. Do not correct other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17840	Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17841	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go. Does the promoter want a word? (Saša Radulovic: Before him, I responded after the amendment. What did you say? (Saša Radulovic: Before him, I responded after the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17842	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17843	You're withdrawing the amendment? The amendment has been withdrawn. (Sasa Radulovic: I responded after the amendment. I can't let you discuss an amendment that... (Saša Radulovic: Before him, I responded after the amendment. You haven't answered. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17844	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17845	Thank you. Members of the Devere parliamentary group submitted together to the amendment 1st. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17846	Thank you. We have tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 14a should be laid down in the Ministry Act, which is the establishment of a Ministry of Family and Demography. There is one proposal that should be a question for all of us here, because it is a question of all the issues in Serbia today. I listen all the time here to discuss whether we need the EU ministry, whether we need the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, environmental protection. This is used for the chat room, for both of us to attack and condemn each other, and what should be a question of all questions, whether one of us here is a representative of the government or of the opposition, is a family and is a negative trend that we have years ago in Serbia. I remind you that today, every year in Serbia, we have 36,000 people less who are born than those who have died. This means that since 2000, we have lost over half a million people, based only on negative natural growth. Also, every year tens of thousands of working and young people leave Serbia in search of a better life, in search of existence, because they cannot make it here in Serbia. This means that when we add up these two categories, we lose about 100,000 inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia annually. Do we have any more important questions than that? Will it be more important if the fountain in Slavia sings or not, are we going to have a street? What we need is streets and squares and roads if it doesn't have anyone to benefit from in the Republic of Serbia and we don't have anyone to leave it to. Unfortunately, in these five years of your reign, you haven't shown a moment's desire to deal with this subject and deal with this issue. I'm trying to figure out how many times in the draft agenda to propose certain laws concerning this subject, of course, unsuccessfully and I haven't been able to get you to discuss these issues. Today, when you are on the verge of forming a new government, you do not want to talk about it again, and in the previous government, where Aleksandar Vukic was prime minister, Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, you gave the portfolio to deal with population policy. Aleksandar Vukic was appointed president of the council, but you also foresaw the entire 130 million dinars for demographics in 2017 for population policy, and 260 million were allocated only for the fountain in Slavia. So this tells us how committed you are to this problem and how conscious you really are about the essence of all of us who are dealing with politics today that we have responsibility for our country and responsibility for our citizens. I spoke in a debate on the principle that young people today find it hard to form families and become parents. Based on data from the Republic Bureau of Statistics, only 29 years on average women enter parenting and become mothers. It's 33 years in men. So it's a trend that will lead us to empty our land and slowly disappear, which can be seen in settlements. Out of over 4,000 and some settlements in the Republic of Serbia, we have over 1,200 to shut down today. So that's the question of all the questions. Look at what countries in Europe are doing, in the world. Look how they do it. See France, which gives 500 euros for each newborn child for three years, in which maternity leave is three years. There are a lot of models, I won't tell you about it. You also have a model of Poland, if France is far away. But we cannot talk about successes, about prosperity in the Republic of Serbia, about surpluses, about budgets, about any reforms, about improvement, and about our citizens buying two or three boxes of baby food, about our young people not getting support to go to the competition, as is the case with the guy from Tristenik, who is the best physicist in Serbia and who didn't go to the Olympics because he didn't get the support of neither the local self-government nor the Ministry of Education. These are the questions we need to deal with here. That's why we suggested establishing this ministry. We've suggested that it be under 14a in law, but that ministry should be number one. Everything else is behind it because who we work for, who are these roads and streets being built for? Who are you talking about taking advantage of all these reforms in Serbia? Who are you going to leave it to? If this trend continues, I don't think any of us will be happy that he's ever been involved in political life in all these years. So we suggest that this amendment be accepted. I think he's more important than most of these others who are here today on the agenda and spoken of. Whether there will be two ministries now more or less talking about you and your honesty, because only a year ago you said that you would save, that you would not increase the number of ministers, that you would have the least ministries of all since 2000 and beyond. Now, probably because of not such good relations more in the coalition, perhaps even greater appetites of coalition partners, political trade is again making political trade, political compromises increase the number of ministries and these costs will, of course, be paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now you will say, well, some have had more before. Well, yeah, they did, and that's a fact, but I guess you should be better. You've been saying for five years that you're better than those who were before you. Well, let's show it to work sometime. Let's say for once, bravo, here, you're better than them, and you're not continuing what some of you are doing, you've already changed your policy. So, the proposal of the SDS-NPS parliamentary group is to accept this amendment and to start dealing with the issue of all issues in the Republic of Serbia, which is family and demographics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17847	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17848	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs has announced this amendment to the contrary to the legal system and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, before the amendment finally states that all that is required in the amendment must be agreed with the prior consent of the President of the Republic. Whether it's a hypocrisis or something, I'm going to leave it to the amendment's proposing that he explain to the citizens what it's about, but we have to tell the citizens the truth unlike the applicant or the amendment promoter who didn't say it, when I say he didn't say it, that means he told the truth, then we're obliged to state what the facts are. First of all, this is the first government since the black five-octobaric changes, which for the first time was more serious about something that was long needed to be solved, which is demographic and population policy. I repeat, first government. Given that the apostrophe is the Minister's name without a portfolio, not the portfolio, as the Proposer put it, I have to point out the following facts. It is true that this government has allocated 130 million out of the budget and issued a public call on 12 May 2017 to local self-governments in terms of participation precisely in the approval or allocation of what is necessary, necessary to affirm demographic and population policy. The public call was registered by 90 municipalities, or local self-government in the Republic of Serbia. So each other or even more than any other municipality in Serbia, given that there are 169 in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, what is the fact is that all the local self-governments that applied to this public call had to comply with the procedure, which is to carry out an analysis of demographic and population policy, that based on this analysis they should implement the necessary measures to have, in any event, their justification and to adopt certain parameters based on which to improve the demographic structure of the population. All those critics who now represent speakers that the state of Serbia, when it comes to demographic structure and everything else that follows, appears as a state of "white plague", which can ultimately be the subject of a certain analysis, should bear in mind that the measures taken cannot produce an effect overnight. A parameter to measure anything for decades, not days, not months, not years. If we started something very important, after everything that the Serbs, the Serbian people, the state and the citizens of Serbia have followed, that we lost over a million people in two world wars, that we have come into a situation that we have to deal with these issues, then it is clear that the rappers or parameters to evaluate all demographic measures and activities and how long they are. Also, the fact that the amendment's proposer deliberately forgets to say that the government animated SANU, that SANU, organised an event titled "Towards a Better Demographic Future of Serbia", that local self-government representatives participated in the meeting and that the intellectual elite had become involved in solving this problem. So, Serbian citizens, these are facts, this is true. The government of the Republic of Serbia is committed to this problem in the way this problem deserves in terms of its resolution, not only to commit itself, but also to the future period, and certainly not in the way it was proposed by the amendment, but far more meaningful, rational and more efficient. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will not accept or support such an amendment, and we are proposing not to accept it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17849	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17850	Given that counterpart Nedja Jovanovic has covered a lot, I will only add that it is obvious that the amendment's proponent has deliberately forgotten to read the position of 2nd of this amendment, which he has proposed, because it is not about inexperienced people. Obviously, this proves that the conscious and deliberate amendment they have made is such that it does not comply with the Constitution and the legislation of the Republic of Serbia and cannot and should not be voted as such. They only talked about this part about the Ministry of Family and Demography so that they could continue their demagogy and populism the way they did. We've heard that for 12 years, so they've been trying to do it without any practical effect, and that's why this amendment shouldn't be supported in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17851	Thank you. The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17852	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, the SNS supports such a policy which, among other things, is being led by the previous Government of Alexander Vukic, and I hope that the new prime minister will continue to do so. This amendment should not be accepted for one simple reason, and this is that it is indeed a great demagogy here, that we have a proponent who supports, on the one hand, attacks on children in Serbia, and I, among other things, have been the victim of having a child of less than a year of abuse for some suckle he has, and then today he proposes to spread an image in Serbia, an increase in the population, etc. That's really why you shouldn't accept this. It speaks here of a new ministry, and yet ends at the end of the speech by reducing the ministries, and it is some demagogy run by other opposition parties. The question arises whether there might be a need to expand the population because of some plastics that were assigned to the municipality where he was president, where people were enrolling non-existent children and ultimately getting that opportunity. Perhaps for those unborn children whose parents were being abused, this may be the reason why they suggest this today, but indeed if someone comes into the situation to attack children, they should not be worthy to propose any law in this House regarding children and population policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17853	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17854	Respected citizens of Serbia, of course, that the Serbian Dvora Movement is best known as the political movement of family people and that family policy is what makes us the most recognizable in the general public. Of course, we will also support this amendment for the establishment of the Ministry of Family and Demography, as we have and we have our own amendment and a whole set of amendments to the existing Ministry Act to finally get the most important ministry in Serbia at this time, which is the Ministry of Family and Population Policy. I will remind the public that 40,000 Serbian citizens die more annually than they are born, that in 10 years, between the two lists, we have lost 400,000 people without any wars, infectious diseases or any other problem. We're just demographically disappearing. Is it normal for us not to have a family ministry and a population policy in such a situation, when the white plague rules Serbia? It's clearly state priority number one. Why is the ruling coalition avoiding the formation of such a single ministry? You probably can't explain it to yourself or your own voters. It is the most logical ministry that must have in the coming decades every Government of the Republic of Serbia to come out of the problem of the white plague. There are many other issues that need to be addressed by such a family ministry, demographics, population policy, call it whatever you want, but it must solve the issues that today have as a problem for the family in Serbia, the problem of overindebtedness, because they can no longer return their bank loans and pay for municipal services, and public executioners are kicking them out of family homes, the problem of families that exclude electricity in the 21st century, and no member of that family is employed, the problem that we don't have any essential population policy to support birth, young couples, families with more children. When I say with more children, from that family that doesn't have a child and can't have children, so we can help her have a child, to a family with one, two, three and more children. Single mothers and fathers who have hundreds of thousands that this country has to protect and help because they have children. Who's gonna worry about that? Well, of course, the Ministry of Family and Population Policy. There are a number of legal measures we can help families in Serbia. If you have one child, you'll be freed from taxes. If you have another child, you will be even more exempt from paying taxes. If you have a third child, you will be freed from taxes even more. There are so many solutions that we can help fight the white plague and support birth in Serbia, but these solutions simply do not exist. Why aren't they here, I can't understand it. For a year, we have even the Ministry without portfolios for demographics and population policy led by Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, which is obviously the settlement of coalition partners from the SPS, without anyone knowing what the ministry is doing for a full year, so that no one sees the slightest shift in population policy. Because let me only give you one proof of what I claim to be. The government of the Republic of Serbia's budget singled out 1m euros for a complete fight against the white plague and population policy in 2017, and the fountain in Slavia costs 2m euros. So, the fountain in Slavia costs twice as much as the total budget for the population policy that you singled out, which was singled out by the SPS with a truly tragic ministry without a portfolio for demographics and population policy. Well, I would resign as such a minister if the government gave me one million euros to fight the white plague. It's an insult to such a ministry. It's a shame and a shame. On the other hand, all the media in Serbia, while the main news in the media is both in the Czech Republic and in Hungary and Bulgaria, we have proposals from German MPs to move the entire Syrian villages to Southeast and central Europe. It's probably that idea of what to do with the empty parts of Serbia, what to do with our empty villages. You already do so by meeting EU quotas who and how Serbia should be inhabited by migrants that the EU will not accept. So, we're in a big problem, we have a serious commitment to combating white plague, we have a very important task to make it state priority number one, we can't do it without a ministry that will systematically deal with it, and I can't understand why you're refusing to do it. I can't understand why we don't have a family ministry and a population policy. Why is it reduced to the Ministry without portfolios, why is such an important subject humiliated? I believe that every SNS and SPS voter would say that there should be a ministry of family care and population policy. Why do you object to that? It's a question that you have to explain and explain here. What's a fact family policy is a policy of the future. Care for all our families should be the most important concern of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is absolutely unacceptable for us to have anti-family and anti-Christian values as values to be managed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable for us to have, now, two gay parades annually, because this is the advanced SNS supplement on Serbia's path to the EU. Instead of getting a ministry for the family, instead of supporting young couples, giving birth, motherhood, fatherhood, families with more children, instead of being what you will boast about being the main parade in Serbia to be a child parade, a family with more children, everything that is the beauty of a child in your mother's belly, the beauty of motherhood, the beauty of paternity, to be the main parade in Serbia. You have taken gay parades for the main parades and boast that you have the first gay prime minister of Southeast Europe, and on Vidovdan you are launching a debate on the subject, wanting to humiliate all citizens of Serbia to the end and to humiliate to the end everything that is traditional, Christian, patriotic and family in Serbia. So I ask you to seriously consider this intervention of several parliamentary groups of the opposition, to understand the importance of the Ministry of the Family, will not fall from your head if you accept something that is good from the opposition. You will not be, I say, at any risk if you take good, constructive advice from the opposition. This is a good, constructive council of the opposition, introduce the family ministry, make family policy finally number one in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17855	Thank you. Replica. Who's applying for a replica? The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17856	Thank you finally. So I'm using these two minutes to comment on all these aggressive attempts to challenge our attention. Well, if that was the goal, you can hear it. Who asked the question to see the difference between us and those who, unfortunately, once in Serbia, were in a position to take care of it and leave the wilderness behind? It can be seen the difference, there is no problem, regarding the ministry without a portfolio in charge of demographics and population policy. Good news for Serbian citizens, 1,001 babies were born in the first two months of 2017 compared to the first two months of the previous year. Difference number one, ladies and gentlemen, in their time, Serbia was struggling and from its heeled veins it was hoping to survive, today Serbia is born and lives. In 26 cities in total, 19 more concrete, more children were born today, and that means something. Today, the results and measures carried out in this country are seen. The second difference, how to live and how many people decide to form families is seen and by how many jobs there are, then 500,000 jobs were less today, in hundreds of thousands it goes into plus. We've got a hundred and thirty thousand out by March, now there's even more. That's the number two difference you can see, if anyone wants to see it. Third difference, we don't spill empty demagogy. When a fountain is raised that looks like something controversial here and they ask how much it costs, we've built it for that money how much it cost, and they, empty demagogues, have suggested that it costs twice as much, five times as, ten times as much, there are statements for each of these values, and today they're talking total nonsense to deal with empty demagogy. We don't do that, and that's the difference that needs to be seen. The fourth difference I'd end up seeing her with, when we talk about empty demagogy, the one who proposes an amendment just to talk, which is proof that he's unable to write it in accordance with the Constitution, and that's what the board of directors said, that same story through the amendments to Santa Claus...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17857	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17858	... And now he's joking again in the roughest way about this place here, showing his attitude towards the state, that our relationship has never been and that's the difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17859	Thank you. Replica, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17860	I thank you, Chairman. With the amendment's proposal calling for some ministerial resignations, firstly, if there is a personal ethical code, it should personally resign for public deception. Secondly, what is very important to point out are facts that he didn't even hear because he had personal political marketing in the hall of this home. What's very important to point out are the following facts that I've already pointed out before, and I'm just going to fill them out right now. Out of a total of 88 reports that the Ministry without portfolio was in charge of demographics called for local self-government to be participated in one and how significant a white plague prevention project, 15 municipalities went through the public call. One of these municipalities, or local self-government, is located in the territory of Zlatibor County, which is Nova Varoš. In Novi Varoša, the government is neither SNS nor SPS, but rather other parties that now represent the government at the level of the local self-government and have received exactly according to this project and this programme what is necessary to begin with the control of the white plague. What I also want to point out in this replica is that this pilot project means something that will continue to tend for years and decades ahead in the future. Why? Because I repeat that the parameter is to improve the demographic image for at least a decade. That's why a lot more hypocrisy, a lot of hypocrisis about comparing the fountain with something that can't be compared to anything in any case. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17861	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17862	Thank you, Your Honor. What's the concern, I'm talking about the amendment, and I think the current situation is quite satisfactory, that a minister without a portfolio that deals with population policy is doing it well. So we don't have a ministry without a portfolio, we have a minister without a portfolio, and I know you care about the chair, so it's very close to you -- portfolios, chairs, etc. Let's get this straight first. Secondly, if you were so interested in population policy, you would read at least the e-mail sent to you by the Labour Committee, whose member and report by Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanović...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17863	Only speak to the chairman. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17864	... Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who sent us the report, information on the work of the sector she has been working on for the past six months. So, at least it would have been enough if he'd read the e-mail so he knew what it was about. Otherwise, the population policy cannot be estimated based on six, eight, ten or twelve months, but on some indicators over a period of five, ten and fifteen years. We've heard that 400,000 children have been born less in the past. I wonder - is this the direct consequence of the dismissal of 400,000 workers who were out of work, young people who could not get a job, the collapse of the system from 2000 to 2012, the systematic collapse of the systems that we experienced, and the resulting demographic movements? Therefore, a cause should be sought. The consequences are being treated and I think we're doing it the right way. One more thing, comparing a million that is separate for the work of a portfolioless minister and a population policy resolution has nothing to do with the total donations that are allocated to support families with children, given to parents, single mothers, maternity benefits, child benefits. So that has nothing to do with it. It's for the Ministry's operational work. Therefore, it is not separate for the population policy but for the ministry's work, i.e. for the work of the minister without portfolios in the area. I think we can clear up some things that are obviously not clear. Therefore, with full right, I can talk about population policy, because I gave birth to my sons from 90th to 2001, when it was not easy to be a mother or a citizen of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17865	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) The word has a folk MP Milanka Jeftović Vukojičić. Here you go. No, not only were the answers, a very good discussion. She spoke to me as chairman. It's all right. Here you go, colleagues. It was a very good debate. No one was mentioned by name or last name. No one in the negative context. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17866	Thank you. I fully agree with the discussion of my colleague Vesna Rakonjac, i.e. the fact that the proposed amendment should absolutely not be accepted. Of course, what is almost astounding, is the explanation of this amendment where in one extremely populist, extremely demagogue, but also extremely incorrect and truly untrue way it tries to address citizens. Fortunately, citizens know who is responsible, who in a valid and responsible way approaches both demographic problems and problems concerning family protection issues, particularly issues of the protection of socially endangered families. I hope the citizens realized that this was just a waste of dust in the eyes. Except that for the first time in a systematic and systematic way, this government has come to the demographic issue by forming a ministry dealing with demographic issues, and what counterpart Rakonjac has already talked about enough, I must say that this government is very responsiblely approaching family-related issues, because within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs there is a sector for family care and social protection. In March 2017, the government signed 123 contracts with local self-government units and gave dedicated funds to strengthen, i.e. social protection in the sector that is also intended for families. This amount of funds is 701 million dinars and is significantly higher compared to 2016, when it was 400 million dinars. Therefore, the proposed amendment should not be accepted and its justification has no basis in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17867	Thank you very much. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17868	Thank you, Chairman. Just the two discussions I think are in favour of accepting this amendment, because we heard from the MPs who said there was a ministry and that the ministry is doing something, and the fact is that the ministry doesn't exist. There was, we can say in the past tense, in the previous government, which practically expired, and we are now preparing to choose a new one. The minister without portfolios in charge of demographics and population policy, is there going to be another one we don't know. We people don't know that today. We have heard here from the ruling party's representatives that we do not know who will be the new minister in the already existing portfolios, and we do not even know if there will be a minister without a portfolio in charge of this area. We don't know that. It's a state of play and our amendment is looking for what you're talking about affirmatively. The existence of the ministry that we know there will be someone in the government who will deal with these affairs. We don't know that today. That's what this is about. We don't criticise the policy that's been going on in the last year. We can talk about whether it is enough or not, given the problem Serbia faces, but it is not a topic. The theme is that MPs of the National Assembly, even if we're here from the opposition, we don't know if they're going to be a minister without a portfolio in charge of this. The previous speakers spoke – there is a ministry, it did this or that. It doesn't exist. What's the problem then that there is, if we all agree it's important, and I think it agrees with all 250 MPs. I think that's why this amendment should have been adopted, not attacked on the personal basis of the amendment's proposing. Which government, we will find out when the government's composition is presented whether there are and how many ministers without portfolios and then the story of whether the government is small or not and how many ministries there are. We don't even know how many there will be today, whether there will be 18 ministers, if we adopt this increase in the number of ministries, or there will be 20 and some ministers, so with the vice-presidents of the government, I don't know how many other members of the government. We criticise that number because your policy here was three years ago – savings, savings and as the ultimate expression of savings – reduction of the number of ministries and members of the government. Now he's giving up that savings policy. If she's giving up saving policy, then get her pension back. These are the things we want to talk about. Then, a lie was issued here, and I want to react, which is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has rejected our amendments, or declared them incompatible with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. That's what this report says. You can look at the stenographic notes from that committee where only once all the proposed amendments were voted on. They were all rejected, and then the arguments were written differently. It's against the Rules of Procedure. It's explained by the practice of the board, because, like my God, there are a lot of amendments and you can't vote on anyone. So it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and it is, above all, the obligation of the President of the Assembly to make sure that the working bodies of the Assembly, committees, work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am telling you that it was also the case that it was distracted by the MPs who were in the session, that there was only one vote, with one single explanation, and not like this, in three groups, as we were sent arguments. And now to say something, since there has been criticism, that we have not talked about the position of our 2nd amendment, and it is said that the ministries of the 1st member's position, these are all ministries, 16, as many as there are, 18, as likely to be, jobs from their own circle, with the consent of the President of the Republic being obtained. So what's demagogy now? Is it demagogy that we put into law, or do we want to put into law, what will be the practical state of Serbia, which is that the former prime minister and current president of the state will ask everyone? And that's what we hear here in the debate. And Alexander Vukic will lead politics in the next period. He'll run the government. Then let's legalize his involvement in the work of the government. Without it, that interference will be illegal. And we're all aware that there's one today, when the government comes together, and there's going to be one in the future. Now you prove to me that it will not be and that I am a demagogue, and our parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party and the People's Movement of Serbia, who are asking to put it into law. We're doing you a favor, making future government work legal. We are aware that it is a matter of constitutionality of this provision, but we should try to do both the Government and the President of the Republic and the Assembly what it says in the Constitution, in every respect. I am pleased if you refuse these amendments and say so – the President of the Republic will not interfere in the work of the Government. Let's hear it here today, so let's look ourselves in the eye, I think, for the longest time in a week and see if it's been fulfilled or not, did the President of the Republic get involved or not in the work of the Government? I'm absolutely sure he'll get involved. Government control is carried out by parliament, not by the President of the Republic. And that's why we've written solutions like this and amendments like this. We can discuss it. I call upon you to convince me that I am wrong and that the President of the Republic will not interfere in the work of the Government. To convince me in today's debate a hundred times, to make it easier for us when it happens, to tell you to wait, so what was here, a few days or weeks ago, when it will be shown? So that was our intention, first of all, to hear from you that it will not happen here, that the government's control will be done by parliament, not by the President of the Republic, because that is how it stands in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17869	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17870	It's only a matter of which basis, since I asked for a replica, and I asked to discuss it according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17871	How do you want it? You want a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17872	I'm giving up the replica because I didn't understand the MP Mark Djurisic, what was the President's mistake? That's what he said just to say, probably, because most opposition MPs suffer from lapurlatism anyway, to speak only to speak and then to lose the essence. Anyway, let's go back to the MP who tried to talk about this amendment, and not at all dispute the right of the opposition MPs or any MPs, because this is our job, that amendments be adopted on a bill or the text of the law. I disagree with those MPs who say any amendment is pointless. And we should also discuss here amendments that are not written in accordance with the Constitution, because there are simply MPs who do not have enough knowledge and skills so they do not know how to write the amendment even after a year of staying here, as they should, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution. But, my God, it's no big deal, we're not all lawyers here, we can have someone here as the best librarian and the best cashier, the worker, whatever, because, at the very least, as we've heard today, we're MPs and we don't represent professional associations here. So, I ask the MPs that when they write amendments, they consult and profession, that's why we have consultants in our parliamentary clubs, and we have professional services, and then no one here will honor you that you don't know how to write the amendment in accordance with the Constitution. I would ask MPs when they explain the amendment, not to say that there will be nothing, because we do not know what will be and will not be, before we listen to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. And don't tell you in advance whether she will propose to parliament a possible continuation of Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic's engagement or someone in her position, headed by a portfolio-free ministry that will deal with population policy, which always has concrete responsibilities. (Zoran Krasic: There is no ministry without portfolio, there is a minister without portfolio. ) I do not see in 250 MPs a very small number of MPs who have not been in government in some period of multi-party history. And everyone knows how governments work. Therefore, the portfolio and no portfolio does not change the essence of the population policy. And the minister has done it very successfully in the past year, and I hope that that's what the leaders of the opposition parties do there in local self-governments where they still exercise power, because it's not a popular policy that one person does, but it's a matter for all of us here, a factor in political life, the Prime Minister, or future Prime Minister and all the ministries. So one person cannot fix the situation in population policy, he can only propose measures to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to us to improve the situation. And how many children there are today in Serbia, it's not about Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and the Government in the last year and don't really be such a big demagogue that we think someone will vote for us because we've been blaming the government for the last year. I'm the one who gets the most hurt, and I really want to draw attention to the public, how the future prime minister is discriminated against, and even now that we've discussed this amendment. So, you can't have certain MPs who spoke before me refraining from speaking hate language here. And what hurt me more, I'll tell you exactly which MP I mean, I don't care what he replicates, let him replicate, Bosko Obradovic, as he speaks of Ana Brnabic. I should have responded to his presentation and to a press conference the other day where MP Milan Lapcevic spoke in a terrible way, in a very offensive way for the entire parliament of the Republic of Serbia about the personality of Ana Brnabic. Yes, yes, it was one of the explanations under this amendment to the honourable MP Bosko Obradovic. He not only discriminated against her because she was a woman, but he spoke about whether she was, is or is not gay, and only because of these two facts should she be eliminated from Serbia's political life. Everything's fine, but if she wasn't just this, she'd be the best-looking politician here in Serbia. Well, the fact that Bosko Obradovic has five children does not mean that he will ever become prime minister and does not mean that he will ever convince this majority and Serbia to vote for him. I think it is extremely offensive that in this way his exposure is not responding, not to the SNS and the parties that make up the coalition that runs this country, but rather to those parties in the opposition that, in their programmes, have a declaration of respect for human rights, respect for our diversity, respect for the rights to public gatherings as well as the gay population. These are the European values you're talking about today. These are European values. None of you will react there. Why? You may need Bosko Obradovic by 0.8%, and I don't know how many votes in the total set of your votes or to support a presidential candidate. And that's an explanation for the amendment whether, with two ministries clearly defined and profiled in the proposal of the law of Aleksandr Martinovic and the MPs who signed this bill and that's an argument why we should also introduce the ministry for, now I wanted to say for demagogy, I apologize, because we only listened to the demagogue today, but for the population policy. I'm really building on that kind of behavior. Had I warned him as chairman, it would not have been good, for they would have jumped upon me if I had warned only the opposition. But that's why I came down as an MP, as one of you 250, to respond to this and to the fact that the Members of the Social Democratic Party, and in the opposition, MPs of the democratic commitment, etc., are not responding simply because one of the MPs is in line with this amendment from the opposition, so he is forgiven for everything. Please, when we talk about Ana Brnabic in the future, talk about her as a politician, talk about her ability to run this country, not talk about whether she's a woman or whether she's gay. Of course, an amendment that does not comply with the Constitution, as a lawyer, cannot accept that I am considering it at all, not discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17873	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) Dear Members of the People, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 14 hours and 56 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17874	We're going back to work. The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović, I give you a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17875	Respected Serbian citizens, the President-in-Office, I would first of all like to thank this given replica, this speaks of a correct relationship that we should cultivate here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to commend the gesture of the chairman, Maja Gojkovic, that at the moment she wanted to break down among the MPs and express her opinion on the relevant subject. It's something that's the right thing to do, and in that sense we should continue. I want to point out one very, very important thing. Personally, I feel that I respect the privacy of Ana Brnabic much more than the party and the leader who nominated her as Prime Minister. I never entered her sexual orientation and her right to privacy. No one in Serbia would have known its sexual orientation or entered its privacy if it hadn't been published in its time by Aleksandar Vukic, when he announced to the public that Ana Brnabic was the first gay minister in his government. So, the man who humiliated Ana Brnabić as a woman and who brought her privacy to the public is not me, but the current president of the state. I'm saying something completely different, I'm saying my political position. You can't forbid it, and you can't blame us. We have a political attitude. Our political stance is that we are against the organisation of a gay parade in Serbia. Our political stance is that we do not allow values that are contrary to our traditional and family system of values to be imposed on us. It's a political stance we'll never step down from, and we don't see the reason it's declared a hate speech. It's not hate speech, it's a clear political attitude, and what you think is that instead of one, two gay parades should be organised, that's your political position.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17876	Thank you. National MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17877	Of course, someone who has been involved in politics for 27 years respects political views, as I respect both the diversity of political views and the district of the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. No one here has said that they advocated, and at least the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, nor have I, for holding a gay parade, but something else has been said here. I think that most MPs understood that everyone in our country has the right to get together on condition that they meet certain legal requirements. If it's two, three, five, ten, fifteen, thirty gay parades, I don't care. Now I'm going to tell you why I said it was very important that when someone says it's for European integration, then they tolerate that someone here in parliament qualified one of the politicians to be gay or not gay, it's the only thing that we're going to talk about, whether or not they can run the government of the Republic of Serbia just because they're certain sexual orientations and then that's the problem for all of us. As for holding meetings and parades, let's think about it. One or two gay parades were held, I didn't even do it, I don't care who's protesting or why on the streets of Belgrade, as long as it's not jeopardizing other people or the property of this state or the city of Belgrade or private property. But the honourable MP must know, this population has reported its meeting, met the legal requirements. I prefer to be bothered by other gatherings of other organisers such as those who protested outside the Republika Srpska Assembly for days and weeks, and have not been able to report legally. This put other people's safety at risk, endangering their own safety, endangering the safety and property of each of us. Therefore, if we are talking, and we are talking here and whether we should allow everyone in this country to express their political opinion or some other commitment, then we are certainly entitled to do so by members of the gay population, whether one of us personally supports or does not support and whether he will join them or not, but they have equal rights as initiatives, we are not strangling Belgrade and like these undefined protests that no one will stand behind, and yet are in some way organised. They blocked the normal life of the city of Belgrade for a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17878	Thank you. Marinika Tepic, you're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17879	Thank you, Chairman. I am advertising Article 107, which I believe you have hurt in the previous cycle although it is good that you have now continued it by hurting dignity in the first place and myself personally and my colleagues when previous speaker Mrs Gojkovic pointed out and criticised us who are not responding to discrimination, as Anna Brnabic said. For starters, if we were to take care of pro or non-discriminatory expressions, I would like all of Ana Brnabić to be called here with Mrs Brnabic, since we do not know why all the other ladies are ladies, so according to the etiquette, and named last name, is only Mrs. Brnabić Ana Brnabić. Why is she just Anna and not Mrs. Brnabic? Come on, let's start by respecting it. On the other hand, I felt called and personally, and I think that's where you violated the Rules of Procedure, without distracting MP Maja Gojkovic when she began to distinguish between those who condemn discrimination on any basis, including sexual definition and who do not. I'm obliged to explain why. Because I would also ask, since when does this discrimination count? We were all witnesses here when Aleksandar Martinovic, even in the presence of Mrs. Brnabic, insulted her on this basis, and the chairman quietly and very justly warned him. I was taken from the word then by defending the rights of the LGBT population, and Aleksandar Martinovic had neither taken a word nor received a warning. Now we don't know how long it's been counting. Since Mrs. Brnabic became the prime minister, and that was not valid when she was a minister or who were the arches when the Rules of Procedure is applied this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17880	Thank you. This rhetorical part will be removed because it is not in line with the violations of the Rules of Procedure, because I believe that the chairman did not harm Article 27. - allow MPs, or I shall state my political position, which is not a threat to Parliament's work or to the humiliation of MPs. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic... (Alexandra Jerkov: By amendment. Which one exactly? The last one? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17881	Thank you. I disagree with the proposed amendment. I certainly won't vote for him. I believe that this speculation and bidding, the topic that all ministries should have, falls completely shadow of what is the real purpose of this law and what is seen from every debate, about every amendment, which we are leading this day, and also on Saturday, which is that this is a law that was actually made to satisfy some internal, inter-party, inter-co-realitional and inter-co-coalitional appetites, ambitions, desires, and that perhaps some of the needs of those who are not respected in the way that they should have been respected in the formation of this government for which we will vote for a few days. However, I was interested in something the president was saying here, and I think it's coming out of the agenda theme. The president who is a great human rights fighter, for human minority rights and for LGBT population rights, who is terribly bothered when future Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic, here is offended by her, not only by birthrights, but also by sexual commitment, while only a few months ago her comment on the hateful Salva against the persons belonging to the LGBT population, who was said here by the head of the parliamentary group from whose list was elected by the president himself, was – don't Ana there. Madam President, the People's Parliament of Gojkovic, that sentence – Anna is here, you've spoken to a microphone, the whole of Serbia has heard it, and now all of a sudden you're from a person who only bothered that, then Minister Brnabic, and the future Prime Minister Brnabic is present, here you're turning into a person who at all costs defends human, minority rights, defends freedom to sexual orientation, etc., so I just don't think that, don't be angry, but you're not exactly the right person to teach us here how to defend the rights of the LGBT population, in which way they protect human rights and respect human rights, because you, and their right to freely express sexual commitment, and not to be victims, are measured solely by who attacks them. If they are attacked by Aleksandar Martinovic, if Aleksandar Martinovic is the one who exposes the Salva to the people who belong to that population, you are the only problem with Minister Brnabic being present, and if some other MPs do so, then you are a great protector of the rights of that population. So it can't, or that human, minority rights defend as we do, or you don't defend them, and you join those who unjustly, against the law and against these people and call on them somehow, I guess, I don't know what ideas they are, and I really can't get into the motives of people who condemn someone for sexuality, so I'm asking you to take care of it, we don't all measure our political action towards which certain values come from. Some attitudes are values we stand for, and I invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17882	Thank you. For the sake of the public, MP Martinovic read the textbook. The word has Miroslav Aleksic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17883	I thank the president. As the promoter of this amendment, I listened carefully for almost an hour to discuss other MPs under this amendment and listened to MPs from the ruling parties race to say that Serbia does not need the family ministry and demography, with various reasons of which it was absolutely the most dominant was that it was a demagogy. If it's a question of demagogy for you, if this is the demographic state and the decline of birth in Serbia, then I really can't figure out what else you're going to tell the citizens. So that's a question of all the questions, and you don't want to talk about it, or you want to say that we who suggest we deal with demagogues, and then some people dare to say -- well, they say that they need to solve a problem that takes more time, because there are no effects overnight. Those who say that forget only one thing that in 2000, almost the most in power of all parties, even from SNS and DS, that I'm not saying that until 2000 they ruled for a decade, and now they're talking about that someone here has no understanding of time. Who? All of them were in power. So that argument I don't believe anyone can accept. It has been said that some very big shift has been made in terms of solving the problem I am talking about by identifying 130 million dinars for the ministry, i.e. for Ms. Djukic Dejanovic's activities and that 90 municipalities in Serbia have received funds. It's not the essence of how many municipalities it's got, but how much resources it's defined, twice as much as it's defined for the fountain, that's the point, and it's not even in it, I'll tell you what the point is. Young people don't dare start families and give birth to children because of poverty, dear friends. Because of poverty and the situation in his pockets, wallets, refrigerators, who is ready today to form a family when he has no employment, and when he has it he should be happy for you if he receives a salary of 200 euros, and you promise to live a better life since 2012. Here, now I hear a new prime minister even in 2019. This is the essence of the whole problem, because demographics and the decline of births are not solved by the distribution of money to 90 municipalities, but by helping people to have a naked existence, to have conditions that they can form a family and give birth to children. Next, he says - the amendment is not in accordance with the law, the Constitution. I'll take it. But I'm asking why didn't you predict it as the legislators of this law? If you really think you're solving all problems in Serbia, why didn't you suggest it? Then the opposition, we probably wouldn't be able to talk about this. It would probably be in accordance with the law then, but you didn't suggest it, because you had to share political prey between coalition partners through other ministries. My advice and suggestion – do not privatise and distribute Serbia through divisions, through various ministries to reconcile the political appetites of coalition partners, which have obviously grown in the last period, but think about how you will prevent this disaster, which is the depletion and extinction of Serbia. Calling on the high score in the past year, as they say, has been animated by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. These people know what they're doing. You should listen to them. And in these five years, you haven't heard them. When I talk here and my colleagues in the assembly about what SANU is talking about, you say that – demagogy, and then you call on SANU, and you forget only one fact about what President SANU, Mr Kostic, has said, too – that in the last ten years we have lost over half a million inhabitants and that, unfortunately, Serbia is exporting its own future. That's what the citizens are talking about, talking to SANU, and you don't want to hear it. For that reason, we have submitted this amendment, because I believe that this is a question that we should all discuss here and that we all together realize that it has been betrayed by each and every single one of us and above every political party sitting here in parliament. The fact that it's demagogy for you and you have a warrant for you to refuse all amendments and what, I believe, most of you realizes how much of this is a problem, it simply can't, because we live in a state that has a political system such that one person asks everything, and so the other part of our amendment is that we just legalize it, that one who decides on everything simply and in law has a basis for it, so when someone wants to do something from his portfolio to some ministry to some nice Alexander Vukic, just to agree to it, and then to implement his policy measures in the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17884	Gordana Komic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17885	Thank you. I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the parliamentary group. The amendment required that instead of a minister without a portfolio be established by the ministry is a legitimate request from MPs. I'm not inclined to vote in favour of such an amendment, but I'm inclined to share with you a few facts, which I'd like to ask for in public language. High birth rate, unreasonablely high birth rate, have the poorest societies, societies with the highest birth rate and the highest rate, at the same time, and infant mortality, are companies with gross domestic products at the poverty line. So it would be good to refrain in public language, in discussions, from saying, since it's obviously easy to shoot down, that we don't give birth because we're poor, that's first, and secondly, to claim that the whole phenomenon is called white plague. That expression is offensive to women. Women have the right, like men, to decide freely whether to give birth or not. It is a key point in which the future work of the minister without a portfolio should be run or, if you accept the amendment of your colleagues, both the family ministry and demographics. Right to the choice. Where people have no right to choose, children are born in unreasonablely high rates and die, too, at unreasonablely high rates. If you look at the member states of the European Union, if you look at Scandinavian countries, Canada, then you will see a completely different social context in which children are born. The right to choose is respected and children are desirable, and society knows that if children are desirable, then a support network must be created for families with children, both for father and mother. That means they can both have a baby and get on with their careers. This means that in finance, in budgets that are being collected from all of us, popular demographic policy puts itself high on top. This means you have access to people's trust in each other, which is not the case in Serbia. We won't have any success in changing that atmosphere that or women are "guilty that there are no children", so there is a white plague, or -- we have nothing to eat, so we have no children. As much as I have accurate data on how much poverty is in Serbia, what is the rate and how much objective research can determine. As long as we talk about these two things, we will not talk about the most important thing - why we want children in Serbia, where we will accept them, who will work with them, what kind of environment they will grow up in, how a mother, how a father, how a family where only a mother or father exists, all children, will be different children. Until we understand that the centre of good population policy is the right to choose, until we turn around in every day's misery that there are fewer of us and that there will never be any of us, and until then we will send a completely unreasonable message to both women and men in a fertile age. On the other hand, when we make good rules in this same House on medically assisted insemination, there is one sentence in this debate that should not be heard in our society, which is that a woman has become a mother, that she has proved herself a mother. You're saying a woman doesn't have the right to choose. These are very serious things, just as discriminatory as when past the Constitution, beyond the anti-discrimination law, someone thinks that the political attitude to insult someone is based on personal property. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It says in article 1 where it is defined in anti-discrimination law what personal properties are. The Constitution says we all have equal rights. I know that my intervention won't stop the frequency of the expression "white plague" or "poor" over the fact that we're getting smaller and smaller, and in particular it won't stop the completely unreasonable sentences that someone proved themselves and came true because he's a mother. I hope there won't be a sentence that someone proved themselves and came true as a father. You know, that sentence doesn't exist in our society, it's amazing, I find it discriminatory, otherwise, and we'll understand that it's time for a very serious debate in our Parliament about what we want for a child to be born next year in Serbia, how his life looks in 2021, how it is in 2030. When we start talking like that, whoever the mother and father of that child are, then we'll understand the difference, and we'll understand why they're in Western European countries, where they're also low in birth, men and women are satisfied with their choice to make their own offspring or not to make themselves a offspring. Freedom of choice is the key to a good solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17886	Thank you. Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17887	Thank you. A very important member, not to say the most important, of this Ministry Act, is the introduction of an annex to a coalition agreement between the ruling coalition, and it is called the Labour Act on Ministrys. There were more ideas on how to make this amendment. However, she prevailed over the idea of respecting this Ministry of Environmental Protection, that is, respecting the environment for those of us living in it now and for future generations because of the mismanagement of the environment back decades. I'm a little surprised by my colleagues' reactions to this member of the 1st ruling coalition, where we're told to use all the same corny phrases and empty demagogy. I could also bring dynamics into this amendment and say that it would be a good idea to include the Department of Hacking or the Ministry of Magic and Magic, or perhaps the best thing would be the Ministry of Protection of Citizens against Bad Laws. Well, I think that would be one real ministry. However, I am telling you, we have approached another way, and so we believe that this member should remain the Ministry of Agriculture without the water and forestry resources, because for all this time back in the last few years, the Ministry of Agriculture has absolutely failed to account. The Ministry of Environmental Protection should be given its wing, thus rounding the continent of natural resources in the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17888	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17889	Thank you. I'd like to speak very briefly. It is, of course, necessary to reject this amendment, because we cannot accept the fact that environmental protection has not been dealt with by anyone, nor with agriculture's resources in the previous period. On the contrary, yesterday we had opportunities, I suppose you listened very carefully, that the legislator of this law, Mr. Martinovic, made very precise all the data and all the results we have in the area of agriculture, and especially in the area of environmental protection. What's very important is why we need to separate the environmental buffer as a ministry. That is because there is also the opening of Chapter 27, which I assume you know that Serbia is the only country that has received without additional conditions the possibility of opening this chapter. There will now be plenty of opportunities for new projects. There's gonna be a lot of money coming in, a lot of it's gonna be grants. That's why he has to commit himself seriously to this ministry. What you said to separate forestry and water industry, I would explain more professionally why I would disagree. Because agriculture, forestry and water industry are in some way quite related to the economic branches and simply, there is a situation where we deal with production, we deal with exploitation, the development of these resources, and environmental protection itself has a complex set of procedures and measures dealing with the protection of all resources, not only of land, whether it's agricultural or forest land, meaning, to all land and to protect every natural resource, and in that sense, even this other part of your amendment would not be acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17890	The word is by MP Sonja Pavlovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17891	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17892	I am giving the Republic, but according to the amendment, because the MP did not say anything, except that she delivered her party's opinion and herself personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17893	Environmental protection as a special ministry should exist, but as a designed ministry, not by chance because of the opening of Chapter 27 and the coalition bargaining. If it had been very little, it was very little in the area of environmental protection, except for the agreement, nothing else has been implemented in the legislation or in the field, but more in Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17894	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Slavisa Ristic. The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17895	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to reiterate the need to form the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, because in short, that would be an unequivocal, clear message, above all, to the international community, and to our citizens living in KIM that the Republic of Serbia will never give up the works of its territory. That would be a real message. It's not enough to tell empty patriotic stories. It is not enough from the "Shumadi" Square in northern Kosovo Mitrovica to celebrate alleged Serbian victories after the Kosovo elections, where we had Mr Mark Djuric to say that Serbs from Horgos to Dragas have reason to celebrate victory in the elections, he said at the time, in our Serbian province of KIM, it was a separatist election. I know this authority must not and will not accept this proposal, but I am now taking the opportunity to address the MPs, the congregation majority. For most I know that in 2011, in 2010 they were with the Serb people at KIM, at barricades, at the resistance of the Serbian people, supporting and saying that we should not give up resistance to the so-called. An independent Kosovo. I address her as an opportunity to correct her mistake in 2012 when the government was formed, and when they practically abolished the KIM Ministry. I'm talking to my colleagues, my countrymen, my colleagues from Kosovo Mitrovica, my colleagues from Kosovo Mitrovica, my colleagues from Strpc, so we who live downstairs, and I'm telling them it's no big deal if sometimes you're convinced that you should do whatever the government does against it. Believe me, it doesn't hurt, and we'll send a real message to our generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17896	The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17897	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my previous colleague has not called me. I live in the central part of KIM, and I want to say that what happened in the morning represents one political tribune, one demagogue and disabling and showing some sort of mentality allegedly for the people of KIM. That's not what I'm gonna do. I want to say the following things very pragmatically and rationally. Namely, previous colleagues, just now, and also today in the afternoon debate, and other colleagues, submit an amendment to the establishment of the KIM Ministry of Government. For the sake of the public, we had the ministry, we also had the coordination centre, we had the KIM elections, and this is not the first elections to honour the Serb list to participate in the elections. We are a forgotten people, so we forget, I want to remind you, the MPs, the public, that we had so-called. The famous "Return" coalition after 2000, where a party of predecessors who says we had a ministry at KIM participated. Why did we define ourselves for elections, only a few sentences, and for the Serbian list? The Serbian Progressive Party and the SPS have not participated in the KIM elections for 16 years. When we saw that there were people in parliament who had no credibility and no references, then we went to the polls to sort of confront KIM MPs in forming some kind of quasi state. I believe that this amendment and the amendments submitted with a request to form the KIM ministry is not appropriate at the moment and I cannot accept, for a simple reason, that I do not believe that the proposal's pledge is going towards the protection of Serbs and their interests at KIM. The amendment should not be accepted because it allegedly wants to show that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the KIM Office is not working hard enough and does not care about the interests of Serbs and other non-Albanian living in the KIM area. This attitude is not correct, and that is why the proposal is not sustainable, and for the following reasons. The proposal to form a ministry essentially changes nothing about jurisdiction, except that the ministry would have legislative activity that has no significant impact on the position of Serbs and does not have any specific activities. If it is the right way to protect Serbs, it is not disputed that the proposings of this amendment propose certain legal solutions and measures to improve Serbs in the area of KIM. Before long, I have a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when the KIM Ministry was abolished and the KIM Office was formed. When carefully looked and read, when reading the responsibilities of the KIM Office, but not a single competence, what was in the ministry's jurisdiction, has not been abolished, which means that the Office performs the full tasks that have been carried out in the Law on Government, such as the functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of KIM, education, operation of the SPC on the territory of KIM, the restoration and protection of the spiritual and cultural heritage, financial and legal and human resources, co-operation with the Commission, co-operation with the UN civilian and military mission in KIM, and on the basis of Security Council Resolution 1244. When you look at this Regulation and the jurisdiction of the Office and when you look at the amendment that the proposings have submitted, it is literally prescribed in this Regulation. That the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the KIM Office do not care enough about the people of KIM is simply not true. Today, the data is out, and I'm just going to say a few things. The office for KIM and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is funding today, as beneficiaries of the budget, more than 40,000 people in the KIM area without public enterprises, and we have a part of public enterprises that are also being financed. What I want to point out was that there were never more representatives of the government and the KIM Office present at KIM, personally and institutionally, in the entire area of KiM from Gora, Strpc, Gorazdec, East, Kline, Peći, across the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, Leposavic, Zubino Potok, Zvecan, Serbs, Vučitrna, to Prilužje, Gracanica, Kosovo Polje, Lipljana, Oblica, so you are to Kosovo Kamenica to Novi Brda, Gjilan and Vitina. I listed this, for a simple reason, which is the daily coordination and presence of representatives of the Office and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in KIM. I do not want to say that, during the election campaign for the interim Kosovo institutions, as many representatives of the ruling coalition's parties were. Such presence and coordination is the wind in the back of Serbs in KIM for their survival. The people of KIM know how to assess and see who's taking care of and representing his interests. Evidence of this is also the support of the people with KIM presidential candidate Aleksandar Vukic, with over 80% of the vote, and in Kosovo's elections, the people accepted the proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia and won nine out of 10 seats in the elections, showing that the people know how to determine and see, knows how to assess who is in charge, how much care, and how much in KIM space. Thank you. (Slavisa Ristic: By Amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17898	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17899	By amendment. I only use the opportunity, Madam Chairman, to explain why I did not, when I asked my colleagues, why I did not ask Mr. Stevic for a simple reason, I had no doubt that he would be for this proposal, given that he was a State Secretary at the KIM Ministry in time, and now he finds it unnecessary. That's it. Thank you. (Zonnimir Stevic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17900	I'll just give you the amendment, I didn't allow a replica. If you'd like to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17901	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that I was Secretary of State at the KIM Ministry, those were other circumstances and other assessments. But, I repeat, under the authority of the KIM Ministry and under the authority of the KIM Office, nothing has changed but a name, so there is no reason to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17902	The first amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Krasic and I, on behalf of the SRS, have submitted an amendment that we asked to delete the European Integration Ministry. Today, we have listened to the unmistakable attempts of the ruling majority's representatives to explain to us that it would be a disaster for the state, I quote their words, to stop European integration, so that we could not go on without it, because we are dependent on the EU, that it is simply necessary to have a ministry. Our amendment, first of all, comes from that, and the explanation is that there are no simple administrative matters that would be in the jurisdiction of this ministry at this moment, which is essentially the job of the ministry, the state administration. They don't have it. The existing solution is that within all, practically, the ministries you have special groups working on these issues. It's not just about our ideological, let me just say, ideological reasons and the fact that we are against the EU, but that this is actually a political issue for you. The decision that someone who was a portfolio-free minister in charge of European integration is in the future bearing the title of Minister for European Integration is essentially political. It has nothing to do with justice, it has nothing to do with the government, but about you deciding to raise it to a higher level at any cost. It is a similar matter with this previous amendment, where the establishment of the KIM ministry was proposed. It's also a political issue. I must say it was really sad to listen to Mr. Stevic, as a man who says – that the Serb from KIM territory is their representative, and their representative is not, who says the ministry for KIM is unnecessary. What's he gonna tell us, we got the office, well, the office's doing the same jurisdiction. Why don't you have an office for European integration with the same powers? Not enough for you? No, because you made that political decision. Such a political decision to crash at all costs in Europe. We heard another interesting thesis that it was down there by temporary institutions, and how the SNS and the SPS went out in those elections, because they saw, my God, that some ignorant people were sitting in a Shiptar Assembly, which was elected in accordance with the constitution and the laws of Kosovo, so they decided to fix them with a little blood count, to put in some sense. What they really did, it's to give legitimacy to the Shiptarian authorities. I repeat another question - why didn't you call, if these are temporary institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17904	You missed the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17905	No, I didn't. If these are temporary institutions, then why didn't you invite their representatives to this famous inauguration? You called the representatives of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17906	Ambassador, you've made the wrong amendment, completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17907	Mrs. Gojkovic, you didn't listen very carefully. I've read my amendment, and then I'm making a political parallel, and I'm showing the hypocrisy of the ruling coalition over its predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17908	You can't do the amendments like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17909	Of course I can, I guess I can explain my amendment any way I want.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17910	You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17911	Whether I'm right, political or not, that's the assessment the citizens will give, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17912	That's right, I agree. It's just that you have to talk specifically about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17913	I speak extremely specifically, unlike the representatives of the ruling coalition, who talked about everything and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17914	Which will be evaluated by voters.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17915	That's right, voters, Mrs. Gojkovic. You're just the chairman of the National Assembly, the first among the equals. Then let us express our opinion as we wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17916	That's right, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17917	By what other, kind Mrs. Gojkovic, rather than by amendment? I understand that you understand that the debate is now about amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17918	I'm trying.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17919	Thank you. You're very kind. So, what you're saying is that something would collapse in the European Union, that Serbia would collapse, if we didn't have this ministry in the government, it's just not true. And another political issue, you saw the previous government as the best government in the world, with the best president in the world. He's actually the Prime Minister now in the resignation and president of the Republic, but he still hasn't released jurisdiction. How could he not have needed this ministry? How could he not have thought of that? Whether it started some decomposition at SNS, and what you're saying, we don't believe it, but we'll vote. You people are responsible for what you're doing. We heard from Mr Djukanovic, practically, that the ruling coalition is denying KIM. He said today in a debate whether he would ask us eventually from the European Union to give up KIM, that he would. If we continue European integration, then we agree to the conditions. Then you, acting as patriots, acting as nationalists, gave up KIM in advance, and whatever may not be seen by everyone in this room, are extremely connected to this and the previous amendment, and that it is necessary to make political parallels, because it shows that you do not care about KIM and that you are running into the European Union, although it is obvious that the European Union will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17920	The first amendment was submitted by Dejan Šulkic. The 2nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Bojan Torbica, Dejan Šulkić, together by Miljan Damjanović and Zoran Krasic, and jointly by Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17921	Thank you. The necessary consequence of the establishment of the European Integration Ministry is to shut down the European Integration Office or the reason for the establishment of the European Integration Ministry is to shut down, however, the Office for European Integration. So it's hard to distinguish it from the discussion and the reasoning we've heard from the promoter, in any case, the consequence is the same. Furthermore, it has been said that the reason for the establishment of the ministry is an increased volume of work, without increasing costs. So there will be an increase in the volume of work, and on the other hand we will not have additional funds for new employees, for professional support, for technical equipment and then the question arises how on the same terms, this same office, raised to the level of the ministry, will carry out more work. In addition to what the Office for European Integrations, raised to the level of the ministry, with the government, all state bodies and organisations, strengthened with the President of the Republic, who is in the ruling part of the protagonist of Eurointegration, what, at the intensity of the European Integration Office, can especially be done? The intensity so far in these circumstances, negotiations or acceptance of pressure in the European integration process is harmful enough for Serbia. So the reinforcement of intensity can only concern us. When you talk about reasons, hyperproduction in a normative area is highlighted, but on the other hand, we do not build mechanisms for effective application of these laws. Then, the foreign trade balance stands out, without information how much it costs us, what did we get and what did we buy? And, of course, the statistics that citizens live better. I assure you, unfortunately, therefore, I have nothing to look forward to, as someone who is destined to live in this country, who wants to educate children in this country, who wants his children to find a chance in this country, that this will not be an exaggeration challenge for young adults. And finally, the standards were mentioned, as the president pointed out, that differentiation should be respected, tolerated. And I support that. But I hope that's not just about sexual orientation. If diversity, both political and political parties' membership, is also the right to some difference, why does the government tolerate beating and booting opposition committees in the Smederjevska Palanca? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17922	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17923	We have submitted the amendment and are asking to delete this amendment and the addition from the Bill's proposal, and it concerns the work of the Ministry of Economy. Because what is being upgraded and changed is neither responding in terms nor in terms of the affairs of the state administration, from Articles 12 to 21. The State Administration Act. So that's totally unacceptable, as far as we're concerned. What's this about? This applies not to some possible areas prescribed by some law, but to something that is a software part of the government of the Republic of Serbia. But it must be said that in the good part, this is a settlement on how to divide the prey within the organisation of the state administration, how to concentrate some jobs, and every job in the state administration carries with it the opportunity to spend funds from the budget. And this from 16 to 18, and these changes within some ministries, it just needs to explain to us that the feudal division between coalition partners has been achieved, but it really has nothing to do with the organisation of the state administration and the affairs that the state administration is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17924	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17925	Article 4 to be deleted, to erase these changes, because they are inconclusive proof that this law amending the Ministry Act is only the result of the agreement or of guessing or of making a coalition agreement that results in not having a better life in Serbia for citizens of Serbia, but that some chairs get a little heated, some get a little cold, that some people who have not received so far get, who have received a lot of, by someone's assessment, to lose a little bit. And that's the consequence. This is where the Ministry of Business is asked to transfer to the SPS, to deal with gas and electricity, without staying with Knezevic, who is the SNS minister. It's as clear as day. And it's one achievement that has nothing to do with environmental protection, not with the new government, not with a faster step towards the EU, but it's a clean division of the soil, it's called guessing, you have a lot of those terms that many of you know about because they've been doing these jobs. That this whole law is hilly, thought-out who knows where and who knows when, says the amendment that has to do with the amendment that I've given, which is the amendment of the Justice Committee, the state administration and the local self-government that we got this morning, where there's something changing in article 5, so it's being removed from some ministry, so it's being put into another ministry, and that's all in line with the genius of the New Sad event, where you've set up waste guards. In Serbia, the status of citizens' standards is such that waste must have its own guards. That's what the government of Alexander Vukic brought.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17926	Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17927	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17928	Thank you. National MP Dr Marko Atlagic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17929	I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17930	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17931	Unfortunately, I can't give up on the Rules of Procedure, nor can I withdraw the amendment, and I think that, the chairman, you should draw attention to your fellow MPs. The amendments are submitted by written means, only by written means can they be given up. Like this, in the debate, it doesn't make any sense. But, okay. What is the essence of our amendment is one small extension from the amendments of the other fellow Members of Parliament to Article 2 of this Law. In fact, we also predicted that the change proposed by the Proposer should be deleted, because we also feel that there is no argument, except that a coalition agreement is being implemented that was made in order for this government to vote. Why is the office of the Ministry of Economy's office over the appointment, the preparations for the appointment proposals for the management bodies, for the adoption of plans and other important documents, why is this now transferred from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Energy? It is clear as day that this is a preparation for the realisation of the coalition agreement, which was designed to ensure most of it for the election of the new government. Since we believe that it is to be said, and we have not heard from the promoters clearly and loudly about this, we have therefore submitted this amendment to which we are also joining, as well as other fellow Members, to delete Article 2 in that part, and our task is, of course, what we have put into Article 1 and all the other members, which is to apply the principle that all ministries and all members of the Government can do their jobs only with the prior consent of the President of the Republic. I now hope that in the debate we will hear again from fellow MPs from the ruling majority that...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17932	Ambassador, you only have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17933	Yeah, but I guess I still have some time in the MPs' group, authorized?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17934	It's spent, and the authorized is sitting behind you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17935	It can't be spent. Well, if I've spent it, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17936	Nothing, nothing, everything's fine, and the MPs know and will sign if they give up the amendment. You're going to keep going?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17937	I join my fellow Members who have spoken and have practically told what is true in order to transfer competences from public enterprises to perform certain tasks from one ministry to another. So, it's purely a matter of naked and naked politics, relations with coalition partners, division between the SPS and the SNS mostly, I don't see these others that they'll be important next to them, in order to provide the majority for the new government and, of course, the story continues to divide the privatised Serbia between themselves and the story of the division of the corridor continues. So, so far, there have been mutual controls, so some SNS ministers could influence some processes in companies that are managed by SPS personnel or others, and now it's divided into feuds, everyone will have their own feud and you've shared a nice Serbia and a nice ministry. You've been doing this for five years. Five years of border-free games, new elections, a new government, a reconstructed government, new ministers, five governments, four ministry laws, countless ministers have changed and there has been a constant explanation of the same -- that this is for the sake of improvement, for the sake of progress, for the effective functioning of the state, for the state's apparatus, for the development of Serbia, for Serbia's progress. I don't know if anyone in Serbia felt it except you who are ruling Serbia today and who are doing well because it's good for you, while the people are barely making ends meet. As in this amendment, we have the same thing in other members of the Ministry Act, where you have predicted and shut down the Electronic Administration Directorate, probably because in five years it has failed to open an office for quick answers, which you have been talking about who knows how long ago, but it is not surprising. So this is all just one political trade, moving from one resistor to another, without any goal or possibility of producing any result or any shift in the functioning of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday, I also heard an explanation that the Ministry of Agriculture is about to go to work when, under the name of the so-called "delivery" part of environmental protection. Does this mean that a year ago you weren't aware of it, so then you created a ministry that had a part in protecting the environment, so now that you're able to produce some results in agriculture? No, that's all the empty stories you've been telling Serbian citizens for five years. Thanks to your media and the state in which we are in an autocratic society, it is impossible for citizens to easily come to the truth, but it will come sooner or later. So, I think the whole law, and this amendment of ours, and how it makes sense, and I think that this member of the law should be deleted and that it should actually look at the ministries, government and state as one system, and not continue to do what you've been doing for five years, and that's the collapse of the system of values and the collapse of the system of institutions. Of course, this won't be a problem for you either, because you have destroyed the institution by not applying every law we adopt here as MPs and there is no political responsibility for it. There is no political responsibility even when you say that the competition will be put in place by the directors of public enterprises. Unfortunately, they come exclusively after the political party's proposal, but it is a picture and an opportunity where we live today, all of us in Serbia, with you on our backs. I hope the citizens understand sooner or later, that the way you've done it, that's how you'll go through the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17938	Thank you. You've wasted the time of the parliamentary group and authorized. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17939	Thank you. First, let's inform the citizens what is changing by this amendment to the Ministry Act. Practically so far, the Ministry of Economy has been empowered, i.e. having jurisdiction to set strategic objectives, improve work and business, monitor and implement acts on the appointment and resolution of management bodies in public enterprises, for all public undertakings. It is in the current Ministry Act. Here it is proposed that the Ministry of Business continue to be responsible for determining strategic objectives, improving work and business, as well as monitoring and preparing acts for the change of management of all public enterprises, except for companies engaged in the supply of electricity, i.e. natural gas. Practically, the Ministry remains in charge of everything except, for example, "Srbigas" or the EPS. On the other hand, for "Srbigas" and EPS, this is transferred to the Ministry of Energy which manages the use of the SPS, and this is left out to set strategic objectives, improve work and business and supervision in full, and only the preparation of the proposal for acts for the appointment and resolution of the managing authority has been left behind. So, practically, the Ministry of Economy, said by law, has no jurisdiction anymore, but jurisdiction has the Ministry of Energy and only in this small part of the jurisdiction that the Ministry of Economy had. In translation, there is no surveillance in these companies. Since it's a loser who's a decades-old loser like "Serbiagas", an EPS who has serious business problems, it's more than clear what's happening to these political ones. Because of this and because of this change which is completely surreal, where supervision is lifted, strategic objectives, supervision of business by the Ministry of Economy, this amendment, or this member of the law, should not be accepted. That's why it says "wipe." On the other hand, the reason why this and other amendments should not be accepted is the way in which this whole legislative proposal is prepared. This should be deleted because it is written in the explanation, and the law is proposed by an emergency procedure, the Assembly scheduled for an emergency procedure of 24 hours and 50 minutes before the session itself, and is required, namely, by the motion of Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic to enter into force this law on the day of publication in the "Official Messenger", instead of waiting for normal eight days, with this explanation – the reasons for the adoption of the proposed law by emergency procedure, including this member we want to delete, are contained in the need to prevent the adverse consequences of the work of the authorities and organisations, given that it has been assessed, not to indicate who has assessed that the establishment of these ministries would significantly contribute to the improvement of social relations in areas for which the ministries are educated, as well as the more efficient work of the state administration. So, this is the reason for the whole law, including this part where it is underlining "Srbigas" and EPS. The question arises: if there are adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations, what has been the case with them in the previous five years, or how in the previous five years, how many SNS have been in power, no one has noticed that there are some harmful consequences, or has given us MPs in the Republika Srpska Assembly an explanation for the adverse consequences? Then, to explain to us that this will, to a considerable extent, contribute to the improvement of social relations and the social attitudes, including for "Srbigas" and EPS. This is an insult to the intelligence of the MPs of the people, as well as to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for whom this and this law is passed. For all these reasons, it is necessary to vote for this amendment and delete this member concerning "Srbigas" and the EPS. It seems there's only one principle on the scene that's used, and that's the principle of haughtiness that says -- we're not going to explain anything, nor are we interested in explaining something to you, we're going to give these ridiculous explanations and no one is allowed to do anything to us, and we have this excuse that those who were before us were doing it the same way and in this way, so that we can change something about it. Unfortunately, the consequences of such laws, such unsuspecting arguments are ultimately paid by all citizens of Serbia, e.g. through withdrawals of wages and pensions. The amendment should be adopted, the EPS and "Srbigas" should not be removed from the supervision of the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17940	Thank you. The People's MPs Milorad Mircic and Verica Radet together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17941	Article 2 of the amendment and addition of the draft ministry law actually speaks about the Article 4 of the basic law that you propose to amend in this way. We've proposed two amendments here. One is that this Article 2 is deleted, this is what counterpart Zoran Krasic was talking about, because you have actually, through this member who speaks about the powers of the Ministry of Industry, beautifully divided state resources into feeds and from the Ministry of Business, singled out public enterprises that carry out the production and supply of electricity and natural gas. So, public enterprises, very interesting and quite well-known in the public as well, you've now singled them out from the Ministry of Business and then the resolution ministers from these two areas will have a great deal to do with these ministries, i.e. profits from these ministries. This second amendment, which we have proposed, we have proposed to delete the position of Article 4, which speaks about the Quick Answers Administration and what the Quick Answers Administration should do, and we remember, I think it was somewhere in the 2012 campaign when Vukic promised some office for quick answers, so only 50 times a day repeated it, and never did that office for quick answers ever create, nor did it open, nor do there be quick answers for citizens for all of the issues that are of each individual's life interest, and also the states of Serbia. That's why we suggested, in order not to have something left in the law like this, which is just a dead letter on paper, we suggested that it be erased. But I have a few sentences to say, because today we have heard many of the representatives of the congregation's majority of attempts to disdain the amendments that have been deleted by a member, so as a result of citizens, they have explained, how, behold, it just says: "Article 2 of Section 4 is deleted". Well, here, again for citizens to explain that when a MP, or a parliamentary group, proposes to delete a member, in this case all the members of the bill, then that means that we don't think that such a law should exist at all and that the only way to express it is by proposing that we delete each member individually. We also heard that when the motion to delete MPs does not propose how a particular issue should be resolved, and yet for the public, if it is about amending the law and if it is said to delete the proposed amendment, then it is understood that the situation that exists in the basic law remains. What has also been heard in the complaint to the MPs who have submitted these amendments is that in fact all the amendments are an expression of hatred for Alexander Vukic, which is truly amazing, and rather like Alexander Vukic, those who will accept such a bill, because he is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17942	The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, Dejan Šulkic, together with Vjerica Radet and Nemanja Sarović and together by Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordža Vukadinovic. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17943	I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17944	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17945	We have suggested that Article 3 be deleted. It's a bill of law. Article 3 also applies to Article 5 of the basic law, i.e. to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. You, in the amendments to this law, have wiped out the entire member who spoke of the responsibilities of this Ministry of Agriculture, because it now singles out ecology as a special ministry, and this is now being baptized by the Ministry of Agriculture as agriculture, forestry and water industry. There's no big difference here, even though you've erased the whole article. Probably to someone who wrote this was simpler than to take it so that he really changed a member according to the existing and new powers. But when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture, and with the powers that are now in place and with the powers that you provide for in this Bill on Amendments and Supplements, the Ministry does not do what it should do. The very fact that it is the Ministry of Agriculture should, I guess, draw attention that this ministry is dealing with the real problems that farmers in Serbia have. The latest case of the ministry's carelessness and the adventurous behaviour of the resolute minister is this situation that is happening now with the raspberries producers. Without any shame and shame, the minister says the state can't interfere with ice-cold and raspberries, which is simply not true. There are strictly established state authorities dealing with the protection of competition, the commission, and it has not occurred to the commission to question itself a little and to determine how many and what are the coolants who are monopolies and who blackmail the producers of raspberries at a price of 1.20 euros per kilogram. These same refrigerators have concluded a harmful and one agreement that constitutes a criminal offence in the Criminal Code and we have informed the public about it. Of course, no one's responding, and he should be responding to the D.A.'s office. If they didn't, then the Minister of Agriculture had to draw attention to them that the refrigerators had made the agreement and made a commitment that no one would pay more raspberries than that price they had determined and even laid down the bonds if someone accidentally paid some money more so that they could use the executioner to take his property. So there is much that is not good in this law, and it is not good in the application of the existing law itself, and in the policy that this Government of Aleksandra Vukic leads, both current and future, it will not be good in the future. That's why we suggested erasing this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17946	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17947	I'll just take a minute. There's a reason, as we said, for and against. Now that we've seen the explanation from this discussion and seen what's about the reason this new ministry is being introduced, then I think the reasons for the counterweight. From what I understand, the reasons for using funds or the hope of using the European Union funds, one, and two, or better say one, is a political agreement between the coalition partners on the redistribution of the portfolio. Of course, it's legitimate for both of us, but given the state of the ecological situation in Serbia, we're saying that at this point as we speak, it's still smoking or burning in Vinci, a dump in Vinci. So, we all know, as much as it's all just a routine thing, it always takes some time to spy on and create a new organization, and that new ministry that needs to be dealt with with with with these environmental problems that are big, it's not controversial, it's going to take time to just build up. It is only that time it takes to establish a new ministry that raises the purpose of its establishment. But anyway, I say, trouble is in it and leaves a bitter taste in the mouth which is definitely the main reason of some kind of political agreement. It is not good, it is not a great shame, as I think there will be real damage with this European Integration Ministry, especially given the way in which it is being introduced, but I just think that we could and that the Government could, or the Proposer, say better, because this is proposed by a fellow MP, that this is resolved in another way, if there is indeed this awareness of the urgent need to introduce this portfolio. On the side of this combination of negligence and urgency, which was spoken of by a colleague Radulovic, where everything is urgent and everything is very urgent, and then we missed five years or waited five years to introduce what is so reportedly very urgent. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17948	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17949	Thank you. To read the explanation for this ministry, in the explanation that we have received from the promoters, that is Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, he says – the establishment of a Ministry of Environmental Protection, that is, its separation from that part of the Ministry of Agriculture, is proposed, given the importance that conservation and environmental protection have in terms of the quality of life of citizens and their health, but also because of the significant and complex obligations that the Republic of Serbia must fulfil in this area in the EU accession process. So, here says the importance, of course, the theme of the environment is very important for all citizens, and then in the work that it says, financial means for law enforcement, it says – to implement the proposed law does not need to provide additional resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This basically means that those people who have been dealing with environmental protection so far, within the Ministry of Agriculture, will continue to deal with this issue, that they will have the same resources that they had before, and the only difference will be that we get the minister, his cabinet, the whole world with it. And, that's about it, with no extra funding, no practically additional people to work with, except cabinets and ministries, and they probably intend to cover it up in some way in the current budget. This tells us that this bill is decided in haste, that it only wanted to create a new ministry, probably because there is some coalition agreement which is a legitimate thing, but it is also necessary to write, not to hide the main reason, and that in this way it explains how a promotion is going to happen, while the promotion will not, of course, occur. We'll only get a new minister, a new cabinet, and the same funds except for this cabinet's salary. Secondly, when the proposed law is that there are no additional means, that it is the same people who have done so before, they have also given reasons to pass the law by emergency procedure at this urgent, urgent session of the Serbian Assembly, so I will read the fifth time that it says – the reasons for the adoption of the proposed law under the emergency procedure are contained in the need to prevent adverse consequences for the work of the body and the organisation. Look, the adverse consequences, we must urgently bring about this change that will have the same people who will deal with this job as they had before, who will only get one minister with the cabinet, but there seem to be some adverse consequences that we urgently have to prevent, although for five years no one has prevented these adverse consequences for which no one in this proposal has been mentioned, which these consequences are specifically done. Then, if it was estimated that the establishment of the ministries, it was assessed by whom, we assume, was assessed by the promoter, that was Aleksandar Dr Martinovic, that it was estimated, although it was not said in any way, that this would contribute significantly to the improvement of social relations no less. What promotion, what social relations? Of course, the bill does not speak in areas for which the two ministries are educated. I repeat again. In this way, writing laws, giving such insubstantial arguments is an insult to both MPs and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The assembly should be a place where we are seriously discussing these issues. Well, when a new ministry is to be set up and given jurisdiction and resources to spend that money in order to achieve those goals that the Republic of Serbia has, then it requires a serious explanation and requires a serious debate, not such a really funny explanation by the promoters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17950	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. He's not in the O.R. He submitted to Article 3 of the amendment Prof. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17951	Dear President, I give up the amendment, I withdraw.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17952	Thank you. Parliamentarians Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17953	Thank you. It is evident that the Ministry of Agriculture, Water, Forestry and Environmental Protection does not have a minister of this capacity that could cover all these areas, so it is very much in the process of water and forestry from this sector, as well as environmental protection. These three areas should be singled out as they are natural resources and should belong to the environment ministry. So only the Ministry of Agriculture would remain, and I believe that in that sense, the capacity of Minister Nedimovic could possibly be sufficient to deal adequately with agriculture. I've singled out agriculture and forestry for two reasons. First, as on committees here in the assembly, and in the ministry, there is a huge concern in these areas. The terrible consequences of the 2014 flood are evidence, when the director of the “Serbian” told us that only God can help us. So, a public company that needs to deal with water management, which is to be controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture, is called to God's help when floods are at stake. Also, when they were these icy verses, we had the same problem. There also, the ministry didn't answer, so the water industry is left to itself, it's left to God, and thank God, God has helped us, but it can't do that. So in that sense, I believe that if the ministry deals only with agriculture, it will deal in a more adequate way, and these sectors should, as I said, belong to another ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17954	Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17955	Well, our SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, agrees with the introduction of a new environment ministry. We also had such a proposal when the new Ministry Act was adopted last before the government's election in 2014. We felt that given the state of the environment in Serbia, the importance of this topic for the future of the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens, there was more than a clear need for this ministry to exist and to form. At that time, the ruling majority that make up the same parties as today had no understanding, and I might now be able to quote here what, what all arguments were made by the MPs who are now proposing this amendment and to point at it. I don't think the purpose of the debate today should be that. We welcome this solution. What we have added to our amendment is what I expect to be denied by the end of the debate, which is that this ministry of its affairs, too, will deal with matters within its jurisdiction with the consent of the President of the Republic. I hope that the ruling majority MPs in this afternoon's work will take part in the debate and deny my chills in the way that the government, the future Republic of Serbia, will function. Many times, in these two days alone, we have heard about the government of Alexander Vukic, about how Alexander Wolf will lead, work and control this government. Of course it's not legal. We wanted this amendment to allow you to do so by law. You refused, but please assure us that the real situation will not be such and that Aleksandar Vukic will not control the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17956	Thank you. Representatives Bosko Obradovićk, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 3rd amendment. The word is Professor Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17957	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me, as a non-partisan MP in the Dveri parliamentary group, first of all, to give a well-intentioned suggestion to Proposer Aleksandr Martinovic and all the MPs who signed this bill. Since I am probably the only one in Serbia who has worked four strategies, national strategies for the development of agriculture and cooperatives, I propose that you withdraw, i.e. reform part of the agriculture ministry's competence to set strategic goals. The strategic objectives are determined by the strategy for the development of agriculture, which is within the authority of the government, although I think it would be far more desirable for the development strategy of each sector to adopt this Assembly so that they do not change from minister to minister or from government to government. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture adopts national programmes for the development of agriculture and national rural development programmes, but does not adopt a strategy for the development of agriculture, which is the main part or the starting part of the agricultural development objectives. Secondly, I would like to propose this is contained in this amendment, and I propose that in Article 3(4) of the text which reads as follows: ‘determining the fulfilment of conditions, risk assessments and the implementation of the biosecurity control measure in the limited use of the introduction into production, placing on the market and import of genetically modified organisms’, replaces the words ‘determining compliance with the conditions, risk assessment and implementation of the biosecurity control measure’, in accordance with the Law on Genetically modified organisms. As far as I know the problem of biological security is regulated by the Law on genetically modified organisms, and I see no reason why they empower the Ministry to do something other than the Law on genetically modified organisms. I will remind you that on May 5th of this year, I have proposed a roof declaration on genetically modified organisms to the National Assembly, as a non-partisan MP, which was unfortunately removed from the agenda by repealing the Decision calling the session when there were sixty proposals to supplement the agenda, although I have submitted the proposal twenty days earlier. I would like to remind you that Serbia is the only country in the world in which the legitimate state bodies of the municipalities and cities, 135 local self-government, regardless of which political option or movement of citizens belong to committees in certain municipalities and cities, adopted the Declaration against genetic imports, cultivation, processing and transport of genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms. That's 80% of the local self-government in this country. Also, these territories included 77.2% of the total territory of the Republic of Serbia, 84.5% of the total population in the Republic of Serbia, and 75.3% of the agricultural area, 72.2% of the oranics and gardens, 80.4% of meadows and pastures, and 86.4% of the total area of permanent crops of orchards and vineyards in the Republic of Serbia. I also propose to the services of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since they have access to the documentation of each MP to recalculate how many 250 MPs of the National Assembly live in the territories of those 135 municipalities and cities, so that we can examine whether we represent only political leaders on whose list we are elected or represent citizens of those local self-governments on whose territory we live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17958	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. Bosko Obradovic, according to this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17959	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to join this appeal by Professor Miladin Sevarlic, to take seriously this amendment of the Serbian Dveri Movement towards the adoption of amendments that would further strengthen Serbia's position as a country without GMOs, a country intolerant of GMOs, a country that wants to protect its health and any other security and which wants to remain and be a country of healthy food production, thus protecting the environment and health security and food security of Serbian citizens. I am sure that all Serbian Progressive Party and Socialist Party of Serbia, as well as most Serbian citizens who have confirmed this idea of "Dovery" for Serbia against GMOs with their declarations throughout the cities and municipalities, that you have their consent that you can support this amendment, "Dovery". It is simply the vast majority of Serbian citizens that are to protect our country from the penetration of genetically modified food and seeds, and I see no reason why you would not adopt this amendment. This is also like the Family Ministry, a highly constructive proposal from the opposition that is absolutely in the interests of Serbian citizens and I urge you to seriously consider this amendment to become an integral part of the ministry law, for the simple reason why we commit all future governments to never being allowed to import, transport and process genetically modified organisms in Serbia. I am especially telling you this because I am telling you in advance what you are already in fact and you know that this will be another condition on Serbia's path to the EU, that you will not be able to enter the World Trade Organisation until you release our market for imports of genetically modified food and seed, then the EU will condition you to do so. It is very important that we limit and protect this by law and support Serbia as a country without GMOs. The huge support of the people is behind it, you would only accept the initiative of a people who are absolutely against genetically modified organisms, and these 135 cities and municipalities from Serbia that have already adopted it. It is the turn to finally accept and adopt the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17960	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17961	With this amendment, we just wanted to remind the legislator that he dropped some of the things he had to take care of. The Ministry Act, within the framework of a member, describing the work of a ministry's work, must show itself in one of the following positions as an administrative organisation within the ministry. Since this member specifically refers to the Ministry of Agriculture, we have asked the amendment to install a new position 7, where at least we would list the authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture and that: Directorate for National Reference Laboratorys, Agency for Agricultural Payments, Agriculture Land Administration, Agricultural Inspection, Agricultural Professional Service. We haven't invented anything with this amendment, it's already in the schematic depiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, as special authorities of the administration as part of the ministry. Of course, we didn't catch that part of the basic text of the law, where the Water Directorate, the Veterinary Authority, and so on were already given. But we are asking a question - what is the criterion for individual administration bodies in the form of the ministry to present themselves to this law, and the other authorities of the administration as part of the ministry that are fully in the same rank do not appear in the provisions of the law concerning a particular ministry? This isn't just a situation at the Department of Agriculture. This is also the situation with other ministries described in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17962	Thank you. The 4th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, Dejan Sulkic, together Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic and together by Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17963	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, listening to the legislator of this law, could have obtained the conditions that the adoption of such a law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act would have been a terrible need to simply not do so without it. However, on the day when the debate was held in principle and during today's day when we discussed amendments, then we could see that both ministries were either the will of coalition partners, or the need to do so, or it was an obligation imposed by the EU. When it comes to environmental protection, the Serbian Radical Party best showed this in 1998 as a member of the government of national unity and the first minister of ecology was a Serbian radical. But today they could hear that without the benefits, because of the funds we're about to receive, we need to move this ministry out as special. The promoter then said that to introduce a ministry like this, we would not have any additional costs. This simply cannot be precisely provided that the funds previously provided for by the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management, Forestry and Environmental Protection are also allocated to this ministry. We have a change of tables, we have some kind of act that needs to change names. So, you need certain resources. It is quite understandable, the citizens of Serbia understand that it will be an ex post cost. It is not always about whether a particular government will have fewer or more ministries, but about what their role is, what is important for a better life, or for the lives of Serbian citizens in general. I'm going to make an example out of the middle I come from, from Ljubija, when the promoter said that the Ministry of Agriculture was almost everything it could do, and even more so, in the end of winter, an elemental accident occurred, large amounts of snow fell, so the plantations of raspberries and other fruits in Ljubova were destroyed to a great extent, and then the city, too, a huge damage to agricultural products and fruit was caused by these elemental disasters. No one could have affected that. From local self-government, they asked the Ministry of Agriculture to try in some way to get some funds they could, at least minimally to help the owners of these agricultural holdings. The Ministry of Agriculture referred me to the Office for Public Investment, and then they responded that no elemental accidents were declared, and that so local self-government, i.e. fruit plant owners and other agricultural plantations could not count on any aid from the Ministry of Agriculture. Then it doesn't matter whether it's 16, 19, or maybe more or less the ministries, but what the Ministry is willing to do for its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17964	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Marian Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17965	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17966	Thank you. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17967	Dear Vice President, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17968	Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Sonja Pavlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17969	The Ministry of Environmental Protection, of course, has been doing nothing in this area for decades, or very little. Agreements, conventions, strategies are signed, and implementation of all these in legislation, especially in the field is said to be minor. The evidence for this is 8% of the waste water treatment that has been resolved in Serbia, so we cannot talk that we are satisfied in the area, that we have just not joined the EU and that all these 27 agreements will be successfully completed, especially as only two or three people in charge of international co-operation work in the current environmental protection sector. For example, at the Ministerial Conference on Environmental Protection, which took place seven days ago in Ostrava, our minister was not. I guess this Ministerial Conference isn't for ministers. I don't know who it's for. So I really think this ministry is necessary, and within it all natural resources should be united, because it is good practice in many countries. It has to be run from one account, from one center. They cannot lead, cross-border co-operation, to deal with the environment ministry and the waters within our Serbia to deal with the Ministry of Agriculture. These responsibilities that have been doubled, or divided, have cost us so much so far. And, of course, it's always been a consequence that the environment and our environment have been compromised. Of course, all of this has to follow a budget that doesn't adequately follow it, so we support that ministry and I want all natural resources to be united within it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17970	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17971	National MP and radical candidate for Belgrade Mayor Miljan Damjanovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 relating to Article 5 of the basic law. We really believed that there was a mistake in this Article 5, and that the proposer would accept this amendment, because sharing the Ministry of Agriculture with the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture and Water Economy, it happened, we thought it was an accident, but if this amendment is not accepted, then it means on purpose, that no mention of planning, support and promotion of rural development is made. This was previously foreseen in this existing law, and now it simply does not exist. We thought to draw your attention, we even accurately wrote that you should put it where you envisioned setting conditions for environmental protection in planning space and building objects, logically it would be to say both planning, support and promotion of rural development. Serbian citizens should know, above all, that those living in rural areas, that you do not, in fact, foresee any support for rural development at all, or the development of the village, and that is something that is not good. You just say it like that, you swear, you promise. The wolf, of course, gets ahead of it, and when there's something concrete to be done, then you're nowhere, and it doesn't occur to you to do anything. Really, we keep saying, it's just amazing that you don't want to, that you don't even care what we're talking about, but that's your thing. It is important for Serbia's citizens to know that this Ministry Act is a complete concern, i.e. planning, support and promotion of rural development. Now, that's our message, when you won't accept this amendment, then let the citizens of Serbia hear it. Otherwise, when it comes to ecology, it is this member to whom the amendment has been submitted, and when it comes to rural development, it is possible for this reason that this was left out of the ministry's work description. We have been talking for months about problems in rural areas that are supplied with water from wells, that there is no state body that takes care of it, that would go after the call to exercise control, to see what this water is like for our people in the villages of Serbia, and of course still no one cares, to the extent that you do not want to even formally write that you have a commitment to the development of the village. Of course, the question that the whole of Belgrade has been seeking for days is the question of strange smells and smoke above Vinca. Obviously, the smell is felt, the smoke is visible, but we, too, Serbian radicals, have sought and made a statement to the public that one of the authorities says what the composition of that smoke is and how dangerous it is or not dangerous, healthy or not healthy. Maybe it's all perfectly harmless, but you know, people are afraid, things have been happening in these areas and, simply, citizens are obliged to at least have real information, even if you're not able to help them, at least to know they're on their own if they're currently living in insecure circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17972	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17973	As long as Mrs Radeta is right when she spoke about the need to consider and accept this amendment to the SRS, so, because of the time that we have left, she speaks to the fact, you probably remember Mr Marinkovic and Mr Milicevic, next to you, that this Assembly, since I see that the marble here is, as if there is a party in the hall for most members of the ruling coalition, adopted the law on December 31st, on the proposal of Minister Nedimovic, on rural development in agriculture. Then it is illogical for the legislator of this law, Mr Martinovic, that he did not want, as well as the parliamentary majority, to accept this amendment, and we have already passed a special law which I guarantee you that so far remains only a letter on paper. In this year, there were no shifts as regards larger subsidies for people in agriculture and, when we talk about rural development, it is not only about livestock farming, about the production of raspberries, which is a scandal with such a low ransom price, but about a complex one issue, which is to encourage people to stay in their villages and to develop in these healthy environments and ethnic villages, complete complexes and orchards and raspberries, and all that includes a rounded household that will be able to live honestly from their work. Obviously, that's not your goal, as soon as you didn't want it. And you know that you've voted, maybe you don't know, maybe you've forgotten what laws you've passed here, it's past time, you know, you come to the bells and you vote, here, to remind you, in December, since we've been discussing amendments to that law all night, you've passed the Rural Development Act, and then it's logical that this, which Mrs. Radeta has talked about and submitted the amendment, is being incorporated into this amended law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17974	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslava Alexic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17975	In Article 4, which defines the responsibilities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which we, of course, welcome, our intervention was that this would be done by the Ministry of Affairs in its work, with the consent of the President of the Republic. Namely, we have not been able to hear much about this session, the programme of the new government and the personal composition, but we have been able to hear the oath of the ruling majority MPs, whether they came from the SNS or other coalition parties and partners, that they will continue to work in the way it was done so far, that they will continue everything they did and the way he did, as he led the government, Alexander Vukic. What we wanted through these amendments is that, since there is clearly a clear intention to continue with this way of working, let us legalise his involvement in the work of the future government. It was not accepted and one argument was found that it was not under the Constitution. I can agree that the Constitution does not allow the direct interference of the President of the Republic in the work of the Government, but I expect it to adhere to the Constitution and the law without this norm that you will not adopt. It means that the President of the Republic cannot interfere with the work and decisions of the future government of Serbia, and I hope that we will bear witness to that in the days to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17976	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ješić, Dusan Milisavljevic and Dragoljub Micanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17977	The amendment, which we, colleagues from the DS, together with the proposal to the National Assembly, concerns the addition in the first paragraph of Article 4 of the amendment and the addition of the law, i.e. Article 5a introduced by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, to the following words: "approval of cross-border transport of waste and protected plant and animal species" to add the words "age of wind protection belts". The lack of wind protection belts is the paradigm of the division of our society. When you look at the results and look at the parallel wind protection belts and the noise in Serbia and the regional surrounding countries, then you will see how many more people we are than society. Why are windscreens a paradigm? Because they're like a subject that's terribly important for defense against garbage, for defense against the ice skating, for percentage of the noise, for beauty in the far line of the dolls and along the roads, because I see that theme has fallen into a famous sentence – it's not my job. You go to local self-government and they say it's not our job, it's traffic. You go into circuit traffic, they say -- it's not our traffic, it's the Republic traffic safety law, so they say -- it's not our traffic, it's urbanism. You go to urbanism, and they say, "It's not us, it's local self-government. Then we bring here the forest law where a space of five ar where there should be wind protection belts is not recorded anywhere. It is the paradigm of the Serbian schlamper to something that is precious to us, which is for everyone and what belongs to that sentence and the wisdom that I have shared with you. When does the development of a society begin? When people start planting trees, and they know they won't enjoy the tree's treetops and shades. Why am I asking that finally the Ministry of Environmental Protection be in charge of wind protection belts? Because someone has to. Someone has to lift that paradigm. It's none of my business. Since it's not my job, we don't have trees. When you don't have windscreens, then you have slides where they shouldn't be. When you remove the wind protection belts from the retention, then you have a swim of lush water where they wouldn't otherwise be. When you don't have windscreens along regional roads, even by settlements, roads, not to talk about highways, then you have garbage, ice, rain, everything you have to give money to clean, and what the wind protection belts normally keep. My colleague Nada Lazic and I are valid for two, of many, persons who are pushing for this problem to be solved. In the book of impressions on one of the petrol stations on the way to Novi Sad she entered – plant wind protection belts. They're standing on the wind, on the Danube coast. It's hard for people who work at a gas station, it's snowing, plant trees. The wind protection belt is no ordinary planting of trees. It has to be more tapered, you have to know the kind of plant, you have to know who's keeping them, you have to know who's old. The easiest way to determine who will take care of those five arias that no one now cares about and is even easier to determine the kind of fast - growing or any kind of plant, wooden, bushy or high - cross that will be planted, should be preserved. It wouldn't be the first one, not the last time the seedlings were ripped, the rippeds were gone. That is why I, along with my colleagues from the DS, ask you to accept this amendment and that the Ministry of Environmental Protection finally begins to take care of wind protection belts. What would be the next step? It is logical to believe that the first next step of the new minister or minister of environmental protection, and then the prime minister, then the Prime Minister, will be the budget rebalance. We have two new ministries, we have new bodies and we would have to have budget rebalances as one of the first points of the agenda. It's also a good environment for aging. I don't meddle in how professional people in the ministry, whatever you want, will figure out how to get old, but to immediately redistribute the budget for the first step. Perhaps history won't remember us for the good, many historical events, but I can guarantee you that the next generations will remember us for the good if by 15 or 20 years from today, they see high, develop healthy wind protection belts throughout Serbia and Serbia's shambles increased by a necessary five percent, what an average, as much as the EU is. This is common, one of the first jobs we could do together if there was any good will on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17978	Thank you. The People's MP, Jovan Jovanovic, came forward after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17979	Just a few words, I would refer to what my colleague Sonja Pavlovic said earlier and to what I said on Saturday, which is that we welcome the establishment of this ministry, given the poor state in which our environment lies, but that we also express our suspicion that, given the lack of funds allocated to this area, this newly created ministry will be able to meet the major challenges. The big question arises whether this ministry will have the capacity and the political power to prevent, above all, the abduction of land and preserve valuable parts of the preserved nature, such as the Belarica natural reserve, near Belgrade, which is currently at the heart of the public, and against the abolition and confiscation of that land has already signed a petition by 3,500 people and we support that petition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17980	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17981	Since I see that there is no response from the promoter to this, quite logical, proposal, and I really think that we will all agree that this amendment should be accepted, as another one of the arguments, and that we have already spoken about that colleague Gordana Komic, three years ago, submitted a single amendment that you have adopted here today, and included it in her legislative proposal, which is the formation of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. By accepting it, you accepted that you were wrong three years ago. Don't repeat that mistake today, accept this amendment, it's so logical, by defining an important responsibility for the new ministry. You made that mistake because from your own vanity you didn't want to accept the amendment to DS MPs, this time I propose something quite logical and we've heard enough arguments about it. If you fail to do so, you fail to overcome your own vanity, because DS suggests it, I think you prove that for the third time in this five-year cycle, by defining the ministries on the basis of individuals and individual solutions of names and last names in the government and future ministers. So this is certainly not a system solution, we are trying to propose in this way something that is a system solution, something that will clearly define the responsibilities of the ministries, tomorrow's minister, but also all the next ministers who have to worry about the future of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17982	Thank you, colleague Kiric. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The promoter accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17983	Thank you. This is how it happens when the law is made in a hurry, and then it's corrected, too, in a hurry. To repeat to the citizens how the law is concluded and how things like this are possible to leave things out and now they're added to the law. Imagine that you are setting up a new ministry and that this explanation is sufficient for you to establish a new ministry – establishing a Ministry of Environmental Protection is proposed in the light of the importance that conservation and environmental protection have in terms of the quality of life of citizens and their health, but also because of the significant and complex obligations that the Republic of Serbia must fulfil in this area in the EU accession process, and that is that. This is all you need in Serbia to establish a new ministry. Of course, it is undeniable that environmental protection is very important for Serbian citizens, as well as for many other areas. The question here is whether it is necessary to build a new government body and whether it is necessary to have its own minister and to have its own cabinet. It may be, but based on this argument, you'll agree, making the ministry is, at the very least, inconclusive. When you do this by an emergency procedure, so that practically the session is scheduled for an emergency procedure in 24 hours, and by the urgent procedure this law is passed, then there are these failures that have to be corrected afterwards, because who knows how many more failures have been made, which the ruling majority are now trying to correct by this amendment. The law itself, and when we look at, let's say, here's the story of adding jurisdiction to this now amendment that we're discussing, it's said here in reason -- for implementing the proposed law, and we assume this amendment here, there's no need to provide additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This is very interesting. So, no new funds are needed, the same people who have dealt with this area as part of the agriculture ministry, will now be in the new ministry, we add jurisdiction and say that, for God's sake, this area will have a significant improvement. Then he says – the reasons for the adoption of the law by an urgent procedure are that they are contained in the need, says Proposer Aleksandar Dr Martinovic, to prevent the harmful consequences of the work of the authorities and organisations, it is not said what are the adverse consequences and how it is possible that in the previous five years, as many of the ruling majority in power, there were no adverse consequences, unnamed, and it is estimated that whoever assessed it is not, we assume, that the establishment of these ministries would significantly contribute to the improvement of social relations. What a promotion, what social relations, no one talks about. This is unserious. It is not possible to establish a ministry with one paragraph, then to break his jurisdiction, and then to correct these amendments without any serious analysis, without any analysis and cost of how this new ministry, with the new minister and cabinet, will contribute to the improvement of social relations and the relations. It's obvious that there's only one thing behind this, and that's a coalition deal that needs to be another, two ministers who'll get their cabinets, which is why we're making ministries in this unserious way. When we do it so unseriously, the ruling majority here suggests, the opposition doesn't listen at all, we don't have any dialogue on this, then it's no wonder that we're doing so well, that we have to get paid and pensions and people live so miserablely. You can't run a state like this. The DJ movement will never work like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17984	Thank you. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, Dejan Šulkić, together by Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The word has a folk letter from Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17985	President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every amendment to the Ministry's Law, and cyclically, as advanced government has done since 2014, since this is the fifth amendment to the law, is, in fact, the kind of policymaking. To strategically think about where the state is going, how the resolutions should be conducted, it is normal to imagine in the ministry and in the state administration how this should work from one ministry to another. This is a used opportunity, i.e. Mr. Martinovic wanted to introduce two new ministries because of the schedule of future coalition chairs, to change what he thought was missing in the already valid Ministry Act and specifically this member, to which we submitted the amendment to the Ministry of Mining and Energy. We are against it because we believe that any new granting of power is absolutely unnecessary for this ministry, and the way that in any way a pile of state administration and that it is too bulky is not good for the state. Unfortunately, what will be in the Prime Minister's government that you will vote on, I am absolutely sure, is this discrepancies in the ministry's work with the real needs of citizens. In this case, if you've already wanted all of you from the majority coalition to intervene in this particular member of the law, as well as in others, it was better that you were more involved in inspection supervision within this ministry when it comes to Serbian mines. You know very well that in many of the mines in Serbia, and among the miners there is a gentler sex, so many women, who work because they are tormented as miners, that there is greater inspection supervision, because the equipment used in certain Serbian mines is, believe it or not, from 1939. This is not the way these changes are done at all, but they only talk about next time, but I believe that you will no longer be able to do so after the next election, to change this law and to say, since this is the fifth time since 2014, it is not good, and then we have to change something else in some ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17986	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17987	Dear Chairman, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17988	The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17989	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and I from the Independent MPs club cannot support this member of the proposed law for several reasons, and therefore we will ask to delete it, because it practically predicts that staffing and supervision in public enterprises, which deal with electricity and natural gas, i.e. EPS and "Serbiagas", are transferred from the Ministry of Economy to the energy portfolio. The political trade of SNS and SPS coalition partners is a direct result. It's clear to everyone and it's unquestionable. But that's not the only reason why we won't vote for it, why we propose to delete this member. In his explanation, the promoter cited one notor truth, but it is not a problem that it is not, but it is a serious false and false claim. I quote, he says this change is needed to comply with EU standards. That's just not true. I will appeal here to fellow MPs from the parliamentary majority to make excuses for their coalition trades and agreements do not put behind the EU's scenes and behind harmonisation beyond the EU rules, because this also harms the European path of the Republic of Serbia, and also to you as a majority, because it is simply incorrect that the EU is even interested in how the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is responsible for which ministries, is organised or reorganised. Indeed, the EU does not care, nor does its organs. Everyone in this area knows that. But I certainly know what the EU is interested in, and as far as it's concerned, for example. This member, and we have not received these answers, or at least any mini reports, and it is precisely about public enterprises as serious as EPS and "Srbigas". I know with confidence that the EU is interested in what is happening to the reforms of these public enterprises, and I would ask that as an open question to the promoter, or to anyone who has an answer to this issue very important, because I only recently learned from the media that there exists in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for example. State Secretary in charge of the reform of public enterprises. I found out that his name is Dragan Stevanović Boska, that he was described in the media as the most expensive waiter from Surdulica, who was in charge...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17990	My colleague, this doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17991	I'm sorry, can I finish? We're talking about public enterprises and the transfer of surveillance to these public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17992	Be polite, don't insult people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17993	What's an insult?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17994	There you go, but don't insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17995	Just explain to me what an insult is. So I don't know what an insult it is to name the Secretary of State and his work experience before he became Secretary of State for Public Enterprise Reform. I don't know who it's an insult to, to you or to anyone else, we can hear it. I am looking for these answers right now and I am asking to hear what this person is, which is now the State Secretary for Public Business Reform, so for EPS and "Serbiagas", which is directly concerned by this member, has made it a reform of public enterprises. It's not just me, it's the EU, and that's why this is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17996	National MP Marijan Rističević according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, is the obligation of all MPs to maintain the dignity of the National Assembly, with this in connection, and I have reported, as the outrageous insults have been sent to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17998	Please specify a member only.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u17999	I said 103, 106, 107. So, he was rudely offended by the State Secretary, and through this insult, Mr. Chairman, you shouldn't have easily crossed over, no matter what the insult came from an MP who often changes parties, leaders, etc. That's already her problem. But the insult sent to the Secretary of State is outrageous in this House. She said it was Dragan Stevanovic, called Boska, told him the nickname. I could say that she's at a Parliament club called Zoran Zivkovic, but of course I won't, but you're bound to do that when someone calls someone a waiter and wants to insult him, in such a way that an offensive term is used, you're obliged to give a warning in accordance with Article 109. I'm not asking for this to be voted in voter's day or tonight, but I would ask you if you'd like to give that notice, given that it was an MP who has repeatedly tried to offend the MPs, and this time, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18000	Thank you very much. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Here you go. (People's MPs: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) (Saša Radulovic: By Amendment. The amendment can do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18001	This article says to delete this sacrade provision. The economy ministry is responsible for monitoring all public enterprises, and this change is wanted only for enterprises in the field of electricity supply and natural gas to be abolished by this authority of the Ministry of Economy. The energy ministry has no resources to deal with the management and management of these companies. They can deal with professional matters, not economic matters, monitoring the work of these companies. This is obviously the result of a political agreement that exists so that these companies would be completely unsupervised and no one would be responsible. We will, of course, support this amendment. This kind of thing shouldn't work in one law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18002	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18003	Thank you. I am advocating Article 107 that you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly by not preventing a previous colleague who has also advertised the Rules of Procedure from continuing to do so. Namely, you insulted the people's home because you allowed the completely contradictory and the opposite of the harder information to come out here and I don't know what it is, and you warned me when I spoke, which offended Secretary of State Stevanović, if it was an insult to him and the parliamentary majority who supported him that we all knew that in two weeks he had finished college, that he couldn't remember whether he ended up in... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18004	I'll interrupt you and take you away from the MP's time. As for Dragan Stevanovic, we can be proud of him. Sonja Pavlovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18005	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, you are not holding on to a member of 108, or you are hurting him in continuity. I'm asking you to take care of the order in the assembly. First of all, I don't understand, Mr. Marian Risticevic, if he says that the injured members of 109, 103, 106, are at what point of view, which point of view. Article 103 has 10 positions. Article 109 has seven indents.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18006	Please tell me where I broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18007	You were wrong in article 108. That's what I told you right away. You were wrong in article 108 because you do not care about order in the congregation. Whether you're satisfied and proud of the secretary of state, it's your personal matter and it's absolutely no place to bring these things up here. You can say that in some other way, but here in the Assembly it really isn't a place and I ask you to take care of order in the right way and leave your personal grades to yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18008	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. It's just that no insult is allowed here, and that's what happened. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yes, you do. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18009	Thank you. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18010	Thank you. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to the 5th amendment. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18011	Dear Mr. Vice President, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18012	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radet. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18013	We have proposed that a new position be added to Article 6 of the basic law after Article 2 of the Law, which would be carried out in the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure by executive and related inspection and professional tasks through its administration bodies in the form of the Ministry, namely the Directorate for the Determination of the Capability of Ships for Navigation and the Transport of Dangerous Load and Water Roads Directorate. Again in the amendments to the law, we left out these very important details. It's interesting that although you've already changed this law six times six times, you haven't once seen that you've passed a law that will be comprehensive, you don't have to go with changes and supplements every minute. We wanted this amendment to specify the work of this ministry, because it must contain a precise determination that there should be two administrations and one directorate as the authority of the administration within the Ministry, the Administration for the Determination of the ship's ability to sail, the Transport of Dangerous Load. You see how problematic this is right now, and I just mentioned it, about Vinci. A little bit, a little bit, and there's a few acids on the way, on the water. We don't have any competent authorities in this law that can respond adequately. Our intention has indeed been extremely sincere. When we proposed this, we expected you to accept this, not to leave out of the control of the law a very important area in the lives of Serbian citizens and public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18014	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18015	Our amendment envisions first eradicating this harmful and wrong, and I doubt, by chance, that it is part of the fact that the powers of the Ministry of Economy are transferred to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, which concerns business, preparation for the selection of management bodies of the company dealing with production, distribution of electricity and natural gas. The key word left out in this is surveillance. So the supervision of these companies has magically disappeared in the transfer of jurisdiction from the Ministry of Industry to the Ministry of Mining and Energy. Why is that especially important? Because the outgoing prime minister and then only the elected president of the Republic, using this law and jurisdiction he has, several days before the end of his term, organised a meeting with the management of the EPS and ordered the performer to suspend all the EPS repairs planned for 2017, with one single reason - that the lack of electricity production from February and March of this year be compensated in the coming months. This has seriously endangered the business of the EPS in the coming winter and in the years to come, as there is one dynamic of the remont which must be completed every year in order for the system to function. These regular remonts are now only delayed to work full steam and to replace electricity production and to reach a huge 3% growth. It will have long-term bad consequences and we have to have a mechanism for someone from the future government to react to it, and I doubt anyone, both the prime minister and the future minister, will have the authority to do so if it does not stand in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18016	Thank you. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, Dejan Šulkić, together Milorad Mirčić and Zoran Krasic and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18017	Mr. Marinkovic, all that I've been saying for more than two minutes refuse from an authorised representative. Article 6 The draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act refers to an appropriate amendment in Article 8 of the basic text, as regards the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Mr. Marinkovic, to be on the subject, so you don't make a mistake with the warnings, here's a good example, and that's the ministry. You see, related, common and quite identical and similar jobs for a state body are located in trade, tourism and telecommunications. Can anyone tell what the connection is between telecommunications, tourism and trade? The only link is the letter "T". The second link is Rasim Ljajic. Since the formation of the Republic of Serbia, telecommunications as an area has always been part of the affairs of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Due to its strong coalition capacity, the holy trinity of the world has appeared as three "T", trade, tourism and telecommunications. But then telecommunications and decommissioned because there are para-state authorities, para-state special organizations that are nowhere in the Ministry Act, which are these independent regulators like Ratel and that I don't order any further. So, Mr. Marinkovic, when you vote here on a united agenda, so put 30 points in one debate, because they're supposed to be all related, we have the same thing in this Ministry Act. Something that's incompatible here connects. We need to raise our voice, with a warning to the public. Of course, my discussion, be calm, will not affect any MP who supports the coalition government to change his mind. That's how it has to be, and I don't touch that part. What, Mr Marinkovic, which will be the cause of major problems and what has always been the cause of problems in all governments, and even those that have not been coalitional, is that when it comes to the operation of adopting the Law on Ministrys or amending and supplementing the Law on Ministrys, all attention is focused on the names of ministries and the number of ministries. Why? Because it is the basis for choosing the future government and its very clear composition. This is where the political trade continues – me to you, you to me. Each organization in a civil society has four very important factors. One, I'd say even the most important factor in any organization is people. People in the organization, people in the government as an organization, people in the ministries as an organization, people in special bodies as an organization, people in administration bodies as an organization. In my opinion, another important factor is a goal for which there is an organization. The goal of which there are ministries is to carry out part of the executive government through the ministry, and above all there are transactions from the authority of the state administration. When you look at these changes and additions, even in the text of changes and additions, you won't find anything that's mandatory, which must be respected, and what's prescribed, say, by the State Administration Act. The State Administration Act very precisely defines what jobs these are and thus suggests how we should describe and define action. This is not only present in this bill, but is not present for 15 years when defining these things. I'd like to draw your attention to an obvious example of not taking into account the obligations that exist under the Constitution and the State Administration Act. Mr Marinkovic, the best example is the proposal to form a ministry for European integration. It is clear to all of us that this is a relationship, a relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union. This could be the EU integration ministry, it could be the EU Ministry of Fanatism, it could be the EU ministry, but certainly not the European Integration Ministry, because what is part of the ministry's work cannot be defined by any word used in determining the authority of the state authorities. It's been set up here, we've seen what the criteria are. There are these coalition-faedal and there is another criterion – they are waiting for dollars, they are waiting for euros, they are about to arrive. That's what Batic said in 2000 -- only we to take these down, and billions are at the border, as soon as Milosevic is gone, will immediately enter billions here. Of course, billions didn't happen, it happened that those who were donors gave, allowed people in power to steal a little bit so they could have them under their control and that they could always control them and it didn't change, it's still present today. But they record nicely, as they do in time, white helmets when Serbia was the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia under sanctions. Not everyone could have broken through the sanctions, the mob was breached by criminals, though, one group had been cleared after a few years, to cover the crime scenes of those who imposed sanctions on us. Meanwhile, the funds have been modernised. The logistics has changed, but that's it. That's the principle that exists. Furthermore, this amendment requires that we remain what was in the law, even though we are aware of everything that is wrong with that law. Why? Because since 2012, since this happiness hit us, nothing has changed in the laws concerning the private-public partnership and foreign investment, nothing has changed as far as the competent state authorities are concerned. Since nothing has changed, where does the idea of the Department of Trade being the first, second, third, in the fourth position of Article 8, throw out some words concerning, say, the public-private partnership? I expected that when someone proposes a change, he said – it must be for that too. Here, for example, it would have been a particular case – there was a change in material law a few years ago, this change was not implemented through this law, we are taking the opportunity to simply legal-technically fix this regulation. But that's not the situation. What's this about? Let me tell you, public-private partnership by jurisdiction is much more in the Ministry of Finance than in the Ministry of Trade, by jurisdiction. If he's in charge much more there, then he's in the middle too. But you have a problem defining, giving meat, giving the essence, in some ways justify the existence of some ministries, and in this dialect you are so much concerned not only with the proposal of this law, but also with the basic texts and those, let's say, historical ones from 2012, you have made a mistake in what you show in some ministries in this law the body of the administration in the composition of the ministries, and then you do not give any reason why you do not apply it to other ministries and do not show it. We have submitted several amendments to draw your attention that you must insert into the appropriate members and the appropriate views that are the authorities of the ministry. I must draw your attention, the authorities of the departments are forming by law. There are two types of these organs, some of them with legal personality, some of them without legal personality. You're obviously aware of this obligation, and that's why in your changes and additions, let's say, at the Environment Agency, you noticed that, and when you proposed this to the Ministry of Ecology, you moved that agency there. But with most ministries, you have not shown at all the authorities of the administration, and these ministries in their organisational scheme, in their work-status systems, are praised in their site showing that they have their own administrations as special authorities within the ministry. You didn't even want to look at the site, so what the authorities themselves wrote to reflect on this bill, which shows all the surfaces, the unseriousness and the desire to get this over the knee as soon as possible. Now let me get you back to another very important thing. Do not play with something called an organization because the organization knows how to eat itself, which personnel, which is a bad organisational scheme, which is a disturbed relationship and relationships between jobs and a group of jobs that are kind of grouped and defined within something called personal composition. Take care, you haven't solved the fourth factor of each organization, and these are material assets. You'll have a lot of problems about material resources. Why? Because the one who's formally-legaled doesn't believe he'll be able to calm down in such a small bar a number of crocodiles.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18018	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18019	With this amendment of the law, Article 6 changes a few words and it seems quite naive. Of course, it's not naive. Oh, my God, the member has almost two and a half pages. The words "concession and public-private partnership" are deleted, but this is not a language alignment, as a colleague who does not listen now said, but is an essential thing. This is where the Ministry of Telecommunications, Trade and this third "t", tourism, removes one area from jurisdiction, which is concessions and public partnership, and transfers to the Ministry of Business. Why? Is this something the current Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications has done wrong, so now he's being stripped of one jurisdiction? Or did the Minister of Business deserve something special, so he gets one jurisdiction? It looks very naive – concessions and a public-private partnership. But the area defines the largest wild construction site in Europe at the moment, called "Belgrade on Water". And since the top leader of your coalition is not responsible for Ljajic's doing it, then he transferred it closer to himself, to the Minister of Economy, I don't remember what they were called. The prince. This is not only the largest wild construction site in Europe, but it's also the biggest money laundering on this continent right now. And that's why it's very clear why this change took place. This change is pushing Serbia into organised crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18020	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18021	Article 6 refers to Article 8 of the basic law. It is really important to warn, above all, that the public, the respected citizens of Serbia, that today we are discussing individually every member who speaks of the jurisdiction of certain ministries, those who will be, take effect by electing a new Prime Minister. When these changes are looked at, they are all members of the law that have several pages in the description and, it seems, detailedly described the jurisdiction of each ministry and then something very little changes in almost every ministry. But that something very little is never something like what order is doing, but behind everything is actually something serious hiding. These amendments to the law seem and serve for it, not only to introduce these two new ministries that have been discussed here as the main thing, but in fact to give certain ministers some authority through jurisdiction, obviously depending on how much Vukic has confidence, who can be given any authority more or to whom some authority can take. This was really filigree work, as far as it's concerned. When you look at it like this at first glance, you would say – so what, people change the Ministry Act, they have the right, they have the majority, which is not controversial, but what is behind each member, imagine, you haven't remembered and five times you're changing this law, let's say, within the jurisdiction of this Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, to erase something that is already foreseen in previous laws – organising financial and technical control. Imagine the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications will organise financial and technical control. Whose? Which one? Is it possible that one ministry will control another ministry? This is inaccurate, but, of course, in order to create actually just an illusion. We suggested that this be deleted, and of course, in the previous one, Krasic also explained this about the area of foreign investment. It's not good, gentlemen, what you're doing and this law is doing bear service to Ana Brnabić, since obviously this law, or amendments to the law, has been done without agreement with her, but we'll ask her when she comes here what she knows about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18022	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. National MP Marko Djurisic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18023	And our intervention goes in two directions. The first is to delete the proposed amendment by the promoter, because we have not heard one single reason why the area of competence in drawing up rules for public-private partnership and concessions is transferred from the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications to the Ministry of Economy? The only thing we can understand is that it's part of political trade. In fact, the Ministry of Economy is, as I say, weakened by the exemption of jurisdiction and supervision of companies in the area of trade and electricity and gas supply and as a kind of compensation, this part of the regulation is now being transferred there. There is no reason why this was done, in which way it will improve the work of the state administration and possibly raise the level of investment through concessions and public-private partnerships, which is one of the important Serbian development opportunities that this government has absolutely not used in the past five years. And instead of having a reasoned debate based on some of the facts that will come from the proposings, by the ruling majority MPs, we have silence. Silence and no explanation. I am sorry that it shows that the whole of that halabuka and talks about the two new ministries and what the most time was spent on, apparently there was one smokescreen, to hide these traces of political trade, that a minister who is probably considered to be damaged by the confiscation of jurisdiction is now rewarded by giving some new ones, without any clear reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18024	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18025	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18026	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18027	Dear Vice President, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18028	Thank you. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, Dejan Šulkić, together Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanović, together Zoran Zivković, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepić, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Čabraj and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, together with the correction. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the opinion of the promoters on the amendments submitted. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18029	Thank you. National MP and candidate of the Serbian Radical Party for Mayor of Belgrade, Miljan Damjanovic and I have submitted the amendment and have proposed to delete Article 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. Article 7, whose removal we have proposed, refers to the basic Article 9. You see how these progressors woke up, and they sleep peacefully all afternoon, probably the citizens of Serbia noticed we were talking about the ministry law without anyone answering alive. The jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice has been regulated by the former Article 9. You've predicted two interesting changes here. Instead of – public notebooks, within the justice ministry, which is all about, you have introduced some new term – judicial professions. This is really something that's never been seen before. If you specifically singled out a professional exam, passing a judicial exam, then why did you declare only a public notary a judicial profession? Aren't these other judicial professions? The question really is what, since it's around these public notebooks, you remember, there were a lot of public words about how those exams were being passed, who was taking them, who were all those notebooks, who were giving them a share of their profits, how much money they were making, all of them being current, and now they're suddenly getting lost from this law, they're gone, now they're legal profession, unlike all the other legal professions there are in Serbia. But you have also foreseen in this law, as part of competence, programming, implementation and monitoring of projects financed from EU pre-accession funds, donations and other forms of development assistance, etc. This is something that should be discussed specifically, which is the means, who gets them, what gets them. You know, we sometimes read it in the media, this court building funded this fund or that fund, it's all under wraps. It would be better if, within the Justice Ministry, a little more serious about the real competences of the Justice Ministry, the supervision of the Justice Department over the judicial authority. First of all in the courts, not the party's summoning of judges and demands to judge something one way or another, but what it really is is constitutional and legal obligations, so let's see how long the disputes in Serbia and the guilt and the litigation take us to see what you've done epochally. The trees and stones you threw at that network of courts, proposed by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic at the time, so it was adopted here, and of course we were absolutely against it. You've changed it like you've reformed reformed it, and you haven't done anything yet. We have again in Serbia places that have no courts, no judicial units, neither do these of yours, as you said, judicial professions, or notaries. You remember how much trouble there was in securing these officials at the election, at the signing office, etc. So, there are some really serious problems that you should solve in walking, for which you don't need new people, or any new means, especially what the EU gives you, so that they can then draw you to abolish the courts in Serbia, how you will actually destroy it. On the other hand, you are talking about the even development of Serbia, on the other hand, you have abolished schools, you have abolished courts, you have abolished misdemeanor courts, and you have brought down on the local communities some in Serbia, and instead of trying to develop those environments, you are killing them in terms of undeveloped and otherwise without any perspective. We suggested erasing, because it's completely unnecessary in this way to regulate it, and especially best, you've been waiting inappropriately long for this law and we don't know why it's being passed and adopted, gave it tomorrow, a minute before the new prime minister begins to present his exposé, so that the government is passed here within the legal deadline. So, why were you waiting for the last minute? You knew you were going to form a government, and it was obvious that you didn't once make one human law, not the sixth time you changed the law. Every new government, and in fact the same government, the same concept, the same president, even if it's now called Ana Brnabić, and by yesterday, Alexander Vukic, it's all the same, it's all Alexander Vukic. Then you're showing up with some new ministries and an explanation, so that if we didn't adopt this urgently, we don't have these ministries that you're talking about right now. Are you saying that Vucic's current governments haven't worked well, that they've done damage because they haven't had these ministries that you write about if we don't adopt them by an emergency procedure, they'll do harm? So don't think we're insecure. We know what we're saying, we see what you're doing, and we'll use how much that time allows us, this place to keep it public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18030	Thank you. The word is Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18031	Thank you. We have also proposed by our amendment to delete these amendments, which include the word "public notebooks" in Article 9. The ministry law, which otherwise speaks of the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, replaces the words "legal professions". We know, namely, that it was just public notebooks or notaries, that Radeta spoke about it a little while ago and reminded how much it was said about it, that otherwise it was public notebooks or notaries, to remind one, let me say something that the ruling majority introduced from some of its needs, just like all of these changes that we're talking about today, so now this change can be interpreted two ways. If we no longer mention public notebooks, but we mention some judicial professions, otherwise the Constitution of Serbia does not mention any public notaries, are they now exempt from the jurisdiction of this ministry or what is much more likely, that they are now introduced to a small door in fact as legal or judicial, as it is said here, profession? Since the Constitution does not know them as a judicial function, nor as a judicial profession, because Article 194. Paragraph 3 states that all laws and other general acts must be in agreement with the Constitution, does this mean that now public notebooks will become some kind of judicial profession here? If you wanted to change the competences of the ministries, I think it would be far more useful, which is the same need of this ruling majority for mutual processing, which we have been talking about all day, I think it would be far more appropriate to introduce a heritage ministry that many countries have not so much problems with their cultural heritage and the preservation of cultural heritage that Serbia has. Or that the Ministry of Culture divorced itself from the information that only matters here. Culture is always in its ministry as a pastor of information, because of the media and information and how it takes care, and no culture, so let's say that culture is connected to tourism, as countries that want to improve their tourism and their culture do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18032	Thank you. National MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18033	The respected chairman, of course, also the Serbian Dvori movement is seeking to delete these new additions brought by the ruling coalition, which mentions programming, implementation and monitoring of projects financed from EU pre-accession funds, donations and other forms of development assistance from the ministry's work. What is development aid and what are EU institutions? It's that key dilemma that I want to stay around for a moment, in explaining this amendment of ours. It says well in pre-accession funds, we are not even close to EU accession yet, we are not even in the waiting room for EU entry, but are in the hallway outside the waiting room. For 17 years, we have traveled through Serbia to the EU and have not come close, even waiting rooms. The acquisition of these pre-accession funds is mostly conditioned with some other types of blackmail, by the EU. Now, as of 1 September this year, foreigners will be able to buy agricultural land in Serbia, without any legal restrictions, and we will be the only country in Europe to do so before joining the EU, while many others have limited their sale of agricultural land to foreigners after EU entry. The EU blackmail system is always much more expensive than their development aid. They here and when they give or give something, they charge it multiplely by robbing the state of Serbia and citizens of Serbia through their monopoly, western foreign companies, which receive our help from our budget and which are privileged and have a monopoly on our market. There is no free assistance from the EU, no pre-accession funds, which are given to us to support and help us here, always give us, only to lead us into as much dependence as possible to rob us and bring profit abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18034	To Article 7. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18035	Just to remind you, the government of Vojislav Kostunica has initialled the SAA, allowing the sale of land to foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18036	To Article 7. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18037	Dear Vice President, I'm giving up on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18038	To Article 7. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Atlagic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18039	I thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens of Serbia, therefore, when it comes to this amendment submitted by Marko Djurisic along with their colleagues and a few hours of discussion led by other colleagues in the Serbian Parliament, I would just like to specify exactly what this is about and one more thing I would just like to supplement, in addition to eradicating public notebooks at a small door, as my colleagues have said, they are being introduced as judicial professions. The Ministry of Justice therefore performs the tasks of professional training of legal holders and judicial professions. Does this mean that in this way the Department of Justice is trained to perform professional training and attorneys, because lawyering is also a judicial profession? What does this mean for lawyers and how they will be trained by the Department of Justice, the attorney offices or lawyers who are or are not close to the authorities, and what does that mean if the motionor could explain this to us, but I believe he doesn't know what he's proposing, what does it mean for a profession? Is this how those lawyers who have had organized resistance to judicial reforms that are more than scandalous at the time when the entire Serbian justice system and then Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, who had no response to the situation he produced and which lasted several months, feel today and citizens feel it on their skin? Is this how lawyers are punished and will the ministry be able to control them and for what and on what basis? So, what I'm saying is this can't go away. I am sincerely interested in why the executive power of the Republic of Serbia, the attorney-general in Serbia, puts under its control? It's a question for the legislator of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18040	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18041	Not to convince the amendment, but to me, it's completely incomprehensible that, under Article 9 of the basic text of the law, it's been left out to be listed as the special authorities of the administration as part of the Justice Department's enforcement of criminal sanctions and, say, the Department for the Management of Disposal of Assets? How could that happen? If this happened when the law was passed, how could it have happened during this quality change and the addition of that law? Please, this directorate, she's a major hit. You remember, before Saric was able to sell this, sell this, and they advertised on the Justice Department's website that as their authorities, they have, that, but it's not in the law, it's not in this law, it's not and it's being put up by government officials, and there, for example, you've shown some other administration as an organ within the ministry, I'm not going to get into whether it's important or not. How come you don't present such significant management bodies as part of the ministry in the Ministry Act? Please, how is that possible? What criteria did you manage when you wrote the law and these amendments and additions? Every law when it's written is based on some principle. What's the principle here? We have 126, we're going to vote everything out of 16, we're going to have 18 ministries, we're going to do the job. But that's not the main objective of this law. This law should prevent you from fighting and from taking your eyes off when you make a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18042	Thank you. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, Dejan Šulkić, Vladimir Đurić, together Nemanja Sarović and Zoran Krasic, together Zoran Zivković and Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Čabraj, together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlić and together Goran Ćirić, Gordana Čomić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozović, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrović, Veroljub Stevanović, Dejan Nikolić, Dejan Jesic, Dusan Milisavlović and Dragović. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18043	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18044	I'm withdrawing the amendment. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18045	Thank you. My colleague Martinovic, it is very important, I see that you have some strategy to keep quiet here this afternoon and not engage in the debate, but it is very important that you answer this question for us. You have provided by the bill that it ceases to exist in the Directorate for Electronic Administration as an authority of the administration. It's very important that you tell us why you predicted it? In the light of the bill you sent us, you didn't say a single word about why you wanted the Electronic Administration Directorate to be abolished, and in answering the questions of the journalists who asked you exactly what we're asking you about why you wanted the Electronic Administration Directorate to be abolished, it turns out that either you don't know why you're proposing it, or you're not telling the truth when you say what you're proposing it. One of your party colleagues said it was because from now on all the ministries are going to be dealing with the electronic administration and there is no need for a special directorate. Your second colleague, a coalition partner, said it was because this administration is now going to become the power of the Ministry of Energy. Since the future prime minister, we have been able to hear from her cabinet that this is because, together with her, she will now move to the cabinet of the Prime Minister, so it is very important that you tell us which of these three answers is true, because if the three people in question from the ruling coalition give three answers, we can conclude that they are not telling the truth or that they have no idea what they're talking about. I, knowing you, simply to tell you, find it hard to decide which of these two scenarios is the case with you, perhaps both of you. The prime minister, if what she said is true, let's hope she knows at least what the future government will look like, said something extremely dangerous. This means that you are actually changing the system solutions in relation to who sits on which chair and who currently assumes which position and which function, which actually shows what we've been saying since the beginning, since this law has entered the assembly procedure, that it is the fruit of a general trade, of bargaining, of party settlement and that you have no plan at all to do with either the state or the administration or the Electronic Administration Directorate. So, colleague Martinovic, please stop this practice that you have this afternoon. You said three different things in the media. Please tell me which one is true. Tell me why you're suspending the Electronic Administration Directorate. And when you answer that, please tell us, and which of your three colleagues doesn't tell the truth, when they give us false reasons for why this directive is abolished?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18046	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18047	Thank you. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act provides for the removal of a member who regulates the work of the Directorate for Electronic Administration and, in practice, falls out of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The colleague has already said, I will repeat, we have received a bill explaining the abolition of the Directorate for Electronic Administration has no words, and that is, as I would say, a rude disregard by the promoter, not to use any other word, and I find it truly unworthy to communicate with the MPs, that literally one such thing in the interpretation of the bill does not say a single word. Whether the Directorate for Electronic Administration, according to the deputy head of the largest parliamentary group in the Assembly, will be distributed by all ministries or will be directly below it, so that, in addition to being prime minister, it will be a kind of project manager of all IT projects in our public administration, electronic administration or, as the coalition partner said yesterday in the media, the Electronic Administration Directorate will be transferred to the Ministry of Energy as if it were not an electronic but possibly an electrical or energy administration. It would be good to find out, since there's not a word to explain it. What kind of electronic administration we need and what essential thing this example is talking about here. This is the paper we all got five minutes ago. This thick piece of paper is distributed here in the O.R. This paper says that our fellow MP is withdrawing all his amendments to this bill. By the way, these amendments can be submitted electronically, because we have an e-parliament app here, but it doesn't work for some reason. So, you have to go paper, stamp, pen, as you have to prove the electronic payment to carry into the bank to get your seal and signature, and then carry it to some public institution to prove that you paid. So, a colleague and verbally spends the whole day repeating that he's withdrawing the amendments. We heard it all. We could've seen it all in the e-parliament system, but yet our electronic administration works so that the paper stunts are printed first so that the amendments can be submitted, and then the print of the paper is printed so that these same amendments are withdrawn. Despite this state of electronic administration in this country, despite the ranks of citizens in front of the RFZO, who have been waiting for months for their electronic health books and who are still in Novi Sad in several hours and in front of the SUP waiting for their driver's licenses and ID cards, we are being lifted by the Electronic Administration Directorate without a single word of reason why this is done and what will happen to these jobs. That's really inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18048	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18049	Mr Marinkovic, since it is clear what this is about, it is not clear on the basis of which law the Electronic Administration Directorate was formed as an authority of the administration within the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. As we don't know by which law it is formed, we don't know by which law it is deleted. There is a provision in the Law on State Administration that states that administration bodies within the Ministry are set up by law, but do not say what kind of law is, whether it is the basic law, material law, or the very law of the Ministry. And I don't want to open that topic. However, is it possible in Article 10 that there is no position on the administrative inspectorate as the authority of the administration as part of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government? That's six thousand times more important than this e-Government Directorate. That's how it's made, that's how the work is defined, that's how in-coherent authorities are chosen to manage the ministries. What's he gonna do when they pick him? He has no idea what jurisdiction is, what a detour, where to look, where to inform. Let's do what can't be done, but the citizens have to manage, how do they manage when the laws are written here, and they vote with their hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18050	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18051	Thank you, Chairman. The Sampling Members' Club asks for a member to be deleted by the Electronic Administration Directorate, i.e. we believe that it should remain in the existing format within the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, not only because we do not know what will continue to be or so seemingly only until last night. So, from Saturday, we've been trying to find out from our proposing colleague, Alexander Martinovic, what's going to happen to this Directorate for E-Government, and we can't keep finding out. I fully understand that, after a lot of insults at the expense of Mrs. Brnabic at the end of last year, there is no communication with her, not at this time as a resolute minister in the technical government, nor as future prime minister, but they could both through some better coordination, communication to perform seriously in parliament and in front of the MPs and openly tell me what will happen to this, in fact, the structure that is currently called the Directorate for E-Government, rather than giving me superhuman efforts, in a painful state, listening to last night, for example, the Pink TV program of the mandated Brnabic interview, we find out what will happen on this issue. If I hadn't used superhuman efforts, I say, to send her interview and to understand my deep disappointment and sadness that the parliament actually moved to Pink, that the MPs who are discussing this law and these amendments should be on Pink TV from the prime minister to hear what will happen to the Electronic Administration Directorate. It is the greatest defeat this Parliament could experience and, I say, with my great surprise, that this lady has ever agreed to such a thing, still sticking to some ethical norms that she advocates. I heard from her last night, if it's finally respected, that this child, who is the E-Government Directorate, is going to move along with her, as some roof administration for all ministries, is likely to get a new legal status within the office, for example, for electronic administration. That's what we need to hear from the promoter. I would like to hear if it is true, whether the information from "Pinka" from the mouth of the mandater Brnabić is true or whether it is true that we have received in the work matter, that it remains floating, that it is actually just shutting down this Directorate and that we do not further know what will happen to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18052	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18053	Thank you. To resume for citizens, as two ministries are set up with one sentence of explanation, so here is a Directorate without a single sentence of reason. This is, at the very least, inconclusive. Indeed humiliation for the National Assembly, for all MPs and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If a ministry is set up or some part of the state administration is shut down, there should at least be some analysis of the work so far, reasons why it's happening and what's going to happen to these people, jurisdiction. We don't have any of that in this quickly concluded explanation for a law that's obviously just part of a coalition deal. There is no desire, no intention, and there is only the haughtiness of the ruling majority to adopt laws with these reasons in the Serbian Parliament. Move enough is never gonna work like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18054	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18055	I'm sorry we haven't heard a word of MPs from the majority and proposings who would give an answer to, here's a dozen questions. Member of Parliament Aleksandra Jerkov, together with the other MPs of the DS, gave this amendment with the aim of keeping the Directorate for Electronic Administration in office within the framework of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. We have heard from the mandater that the key objectives will be to raise the level of electronic administration, investment in the IT sector, and that will be a major momentum for raising GDP. Today we see how we systematically work towards that goal. We will not challenge that goal. Of course, it is necessary and necessary to support all talented young people who have enough potential to develop this sector in Serbia, but we see in the Assembly today, and yesterday we see three different interpretations about what the future of the Electronic Administration Directorate is. I am convinced that, above all, it is necessary to maintain a level of integration in addressing the needs of Serbian citizens, by integrating different databases into the competences of different ministries. It is logical that the Directorate remains within the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, because there is the widest infrastructure of all cities and municipalities, with all potential - human, communication, telecommunications and spatial; that it is necessary to integrate the databases of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance; to provide services, basic services, all citizens of Serbia in an efficient way, of course, the Ministry of Health. We now have no answer to what is the future of this directive, what is the future of this entire sector, what is the future of such important functions needed for citizens of Serbia. So once again we invite you to accept this amendment, although it was submitted by the DS, because it is certainly good for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18056	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18057	Thank you, Chairman. As an applicant of the amendment, of course, I want to explain. Indeed, on many occasions we could hear it here, the abolition of the Directorate for Electronic Administration, as the authorities of the administration within the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, makes no sense. This is what this Directorate is all about: it performs the professional tasks and tasks of the state administration relating to the coordination and improvement of the development and functioning of information systems of public authorities' infrastructure, the authorities of the Autonomous Region, the bodies of local self-government and public services units; the development and application of standards in the introduction of information and communication technologies in state bodies, territorial autonomy bodies, local self-government bodies and public services; the application and use of the Internet in the work of state bodies, territorial autonomy, local self-government and public services; as well as other tasks of a certain law. So, what's the logic of abolishing this Directorate of Electronic Administration? Of course, we asked to delete this solution of yours, not only because there is no reason why you are abolishing the Directorate for Electronic Administration, but because you cannot have Prime Minister Ana Brnabic with you, as Prime Minister, to bring the Directorate for Electronic Administration, which belongs to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. She should answer some other questions: why she has reduced the original revenues that should follow local self-government, when it will come to the turn of the final issue of different cards and cards, and other documents, which cannot be issued and which is why rows in Serbia and a number of other arguments that have been directly her job, and this job has not been done. We now see that even one very important thing has been lifted, for which we have fought in Serbia for years and decades, which is electronic administration, facilitating through the information and communication system, that Serbian citizens come up with various documents. It's just that it's impossible for you to avoid answering the question for an hour why is this directorate being abolished? So I call upon the motionary to explain to us what happened and where does the Electronic Administration Directorate go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18058	Thank you. Members of the People's Parliaments Verica Radet and Milorad Mircic submitted together to the 8th amendment. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18059	Article 8 speaks of the responsibility of the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government, and here in the context of all these discussions, related to the abolition of the Directorate for Electronic Administration, it should be noted that, since the name Ana Brnabic appeared, as an option for the Prime Minister, you have represented her as someone who has had exceptional merits in this ministry and, above all, as someone who has made a revolution in the electronic administration. You kind of e-Government like it was Anna Brnabić's ID card, so now we're asking you, why are you kidnapping a woman's ID card? Why? What has she done and what has been done in this ministry in the framework of this electronic administration in order to remove this directorate? Nothing has been done, especially what you boast you've done. Are the local self-governments networked? No, they're not. Did the people who, even in December, submit requests for electronic health books get them? No, they're not. Did, God forbid, a single polling list was made according to some new methodology? It's not. So, if you've done these important jobs, and let's say, here's what you don't have to do now, you don't have to deal with the team as part of a special directorate, but it's going to be part of a job, a day-to-day job, and it can do it without special jurisdiction. It just can't, because you didn't do anything you promised. Of course, we will talk more and more about it when we talk about the government, because, as I said, it is what Ana Brnabic boasts about and what you boast, too, as her great successes and the only thing she has done within the government of the Republic of Serbia. We also suggested, in addition to eradicating this article, as a second variant of adding a new position, where we provided for an administrative inspectorate, as an authority of the administration within the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and we wrote, of course, exactly what are the responsibilities that are common and without which, in fact, cannot be worked. It is not very clear to us why you missed it, and on the other hand, why the problem is to adopt an amendment when you see that it is obviously well-intentioned and professional and that it will help all those who use the services of state administration and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18060	Members Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 8th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8, in the same text, the MPs Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18061	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18062	Thank you. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, Dejan Šulkić, together Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Perić, together Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj, together with MPs of the Dveri Group. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. No, it's a mistake. Excuse me. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18063	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 9. Proposal for a law amending the amendments to the Ministry Act refers to Article 13. The Ministry Act. Article 13 regulates the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The proposal concerns certain new competences of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Among other things, it is said -- jobs involving representatives of the Republic of Serbia in multinational operations, missions, and organisation and provision of civil participation in these operations, missions, in co-operation with other competent state bodies, according to special law, development co-operation aimed at abroad and co-ordination of humanitarian aid management, in co-operation with other competent authorities, according to a special law. This is an intervention in Article 13. The Ministry Act. For us, from the SRS, this is unacceptable when we say humanitarian aid, we always think of a merciful angel and it is not acceptable for us. We define ourselves towards a country, whether it is friendly or not to Serbia, whether it has recognised KIM's independence. That's the starting point for us, based on which we're building our relationship with that country. We suspect that someone like Vuk Draskovic, such as Goran Svilanovic, can be found at the head of this ministry, and who knows where he can take us. It was primarily debated here, when it comes to the law, mainly on the addition, that is, the introduction of new two ministries, and then it is easy to say to some ministries that it is the wish of coalition partners to bring some of their relations into line. I'd say this is about the NATO Pact intervention. We are trying to be bigger NATO here than the NATO Pact itself, larger IMF supporters, than the IMF itself. We would fully understand the promoter that he has proposed intervention in the position of the 2nd proposal for a law on administration aimed at developing the co-operation of our diaspora, i.e. to provide all necessary assistance primarily to Serbs and, of course, other citizens, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18064	The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18065	The proposed amendment, the Serbian Dvora Movement, actually protects the interests of the security of the Republic of Serbia and the security of Serbian citizens. In light of the fact that this legislative proposal has not clearly defined what multinational civil operations are under and under the auspices of which we will send our civilians to some multinational organisations, we believe that there is a danger for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that civilians will be sent to the EU's multinational missions in risk areas. We have no reason to participate in any risky multinational operations. Our citizens and civilians in particular do not need to put themselves at any risk. We are not an EU member. We are not committed to solidarity with any EU missions without talking about NATO pact missions that are always conquerive, destructive, violent and practically fascist and we have no only reason to put our citizens in the context of any risky multinational operations. This is why we have foreseen this amendment to delete one such member, while you do not specify it – what multinational operations are under the auspices of which international organisations, how risky it is for our citizens. We do not want our citizens, especially civilians, to be at any risk. There is no reason to participate in any multinational operations that are not our national and state interest, which are not something that concerns us. If the EU has some missions and has some risky multinational operations, let it do so without us. We've had enough of our own problems. There's no reason to interfere with the internal affairs of other states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18066	The word is Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18067	I've got about six minutes. Thank you, Chairman. Let me explain what Mr. Obradovic was saying. If we have carefully read the explanation offered here, these responsibilities will go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it will in co-operation with the Serbian Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army's sub-group in charge of providing legal frameworks and public institutional capacities for the participation of the Republic of Serbia in civilian missions to coordinate issues related to the negotiations under Chapter 31, which Chapter 31 should set up security and defence policy operations. We know the EU's views on foreign policy security and very often in these unfortunate negotiations that the government of the Republic of Serbia is leading with the EU, the issue of our relationship with Russia is being raised. Could such an explanation make it possible for civil missions or military missions, because I see that co-operation with the Ministry of Defense is also foreseen, it will result in God forbid our citizens going to a conflict resolution that e.g. they have Russia and Ukraine, because the EU's position is known for it. Think about it. It is very useful to reject this proposal because it can lead us to something that is not good at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18068	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Rističević and Prof. Marko Atlagic announced he withdrew the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18069	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18070	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18071	It is simply incomprehensible that Article 13, which explains the part- round of foreign affairs dealing with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is listed as the authority of the Board for Co-operation with Diaspora and Serbs in the region, and that is not a problem if it is mentioned. However, the Diplomatic Academy has been left out, and the foreign ministry on its site boasts that there is also a Diplomatic Academy in the ministry, and then it is simply amazing, why you did not at least taxively state what is found in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as an administrative body. We have submitted these amendments to simply help, to correct. Maybe at the speed something forgot to make it right, to be a complete law. However, I also heard this morning when you quote what is in the law and when you refer to the law passed by this coalition government, they suggest, they immediately accuse you of hating someone. I don't hate anyone, I just read what the law says. When I read what's written in the law, and I know that this law has been voted by this majority who supports this government by the logic of things, it needs to be built in. But they kill your label immediately, and you hate it. I hate reading what they wrote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18072	The 10th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, Dejan Šukić, together by Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic, together with Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Đorđa Vukadinović and jointly Zoran Zivković, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic is not a bearer. George Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18073	This directly refers to our amendment to the amendments to Article 1 and, in that sense, a good part of the argument that has been raised in relation to Article 1 is also here, and as regards the European Integration Ministry and, in my opinion, the destructive course is independent of who started it, regardless of who speeded it up and radicalised it. Proposers are very indeterminate and a little contradictory. On the one hand, they stress that it is terribly important to adopt this law, i.e. these amendments, and to introduce the European Integration Ministry, while stressing that nothing will change, nor will there be more costs, nor will there be any new powers, nor will there be any other. In that light, I simply wonder why they care so much that this ministry is introduced if it is on the other hand that nothing important will change. Of course, the matter is symbolic and political. As other recommendations are made to coalition partners, this proposal by the ministry is actually recommended to Brussels and the Brussels administration by sending a message – here you can see that we are good, we are doing what our predecessors, former DS or DOS favorites have not been doing, we are introducing the Ministry of European Integration. It is obviously the only logic and the only meaning of it, while at the same time wanting to get some kind of amnesty of political or discount or benefit in Brussels for various authoritarian moves and procedures that are at the level of internal policy, here already mentioned "Savamale", relations with the media and relations to the opposition. All in all, I end up with this amendment, I have a little more time, which I'll use later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18074	The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18075	We've reached that key member. So, with this amendment, the SRS wanted to make it clear to you once again that it is absolutely unnecessary to introduce this ministry of European integration, and I will explain it in another way. Namely, respected colleagues, through the history of the Serbian people, centuries-old history, have proved to be a different attempt to break out of the composition of Serbia's KIM. We have always resisted it, and our people have done everything to protect the cradle of the Serbian people. However, it should be clear to you, and above all to you who were not active politically, and to you it was only clear as former members of the SRS, when an international management group for KIM was formed, which almost all EU members led by America, that they would do anything to remove us from our territorial integrity as KIM. Then came recognition by all these members, almost in one day, or in a few days, of the false Cypriot state, and not only that, but Serbia's membership into the EU, for which you have also invited a great friend of the Serbian people, and your parties may say, Vice-President of the Russian Federation Dmitri Rogozin yesterday said in an interview with Sputnik that it is absolutely impossible to expect that Serbia without pressure and without direct condition to give up KIM will be admitted to EU membership. Even the distinguished Russian guest asked himself, and why would they go there when everyone fled from it. Our workers, our farmers, and how they have the damage. And if you tried some colleagues and colleagues this morning to show the citizens of Serbia and you do it all the time, because you also have the most opportunities for media spaces, as well as how good it is for our country. There is great damage from the moment we signed the SAA, because over, based on customs duties half a billion euros and more, I don't know how much just for last year, the economists know better, Serbia lost only on that basis. Not to mention that all those countries that have such an hostile attitude towards us when it comes to the preservation of our territory tend to treat Hashim Thaci, who, on the other hand, kidnaps billions of euros on the territory of the Republic of Serbia each year and to tens or hundreds of thousands of hectares. Therefore, Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the future and period ahead of us, and in the history of one nation and 10 and 20 years it is something that goes very quickly and runs through the political engagement of many, some will survive, some will not be on the political scene. Whatever's going to happen, you'll see that the Serbian radicals were right. When that moment came that he spoke of yesterday in this mentioned interview, Mr. Rogozin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18076	The word has Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18077	Thank you, President. My colleagues and I from the MPs' club have nothing to do with recognising more intense activation and action in the matter of Eurointegration, but this is not the case with this member proposing the establishment of a Eurointegration ministry. Or the way it's planned is very disputable and I'll explain why. First of all, I must refer to the continuing debate on this issue when all the merits are attributed to still the current Minister for Eurointegration in the technical government, Mrs Joksimovic, especially as regards the opening of negotiating chapters, and that none, but none of the MPs of the majority, have gained the strength of courage, correctness, respect and all that goes towards Mrs. Tanja Miscevic, as the chief of the negotiating team, which together with a number of working groups, actually makes the backbone of the negotiating process. Hand to heart, this process wouldn't have looked like that if Mrs. Miscevic hadn't. I really owe it to someone who worked with her to draw attention to it, and I think it's extremely incorrect from the parliamentary majority that he didn't remember that part. What is further problematic in the establishment of this ministry and how this body, the state administration in the future, is certainly the treatment of professionals, or professionals. As I mentioned earlier, even in the mere debate of Ms Miscevic, I must say that it was an extremely big problem that so far in the negotiating working groups of ministries headed by more than half of the negotiating working groups were state secretaries, who have neither knowledge nor qualifications for it, and more than half of them do not even know how to escape English. It is something which is a fact and which was really an intense stumbling block in the elemental issues with the other negotiating party, i.e. EU representatives, of which Mrs Miscevic knew very well everything and how well he managed to lead this route back in 2001 to the real purpose. Also in...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18078	You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18079	I'm also using the time of the deputy parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18080	No, Jovanovic is there, so only he can use the time of authority, because he is authorized. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18081	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of Serbia, it is time to explain the idea we put forward in this amendment for the introduction of the European disintegration ministry and for Europe after the EU. What is a fundamental trend in modern Europe is no longer European integration. Currently, the topic is European disintegration. No more enlargement of the EU, the EU's cut-off is on the move. Great Britain has already left the EU, and here is what one of the most prominent European politicians, former Czech President Vaclav Klaus, says a few days ago that it is time for the Czechs to start preparing their country's exit from the EU. Is it now that few gentlemen of power are making it more clear how up-to-date this is what the Dvora have been telling you about for days in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? He continues to say Vaclav Klaus, not Bosko Obradovic, but former Czech President Vaclav Klaus, pay attention to the European Commission's decision to sue Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, because they refuse to receive refugees, he estimated that this clearly shows Europe's intentions with the Czech Republic. We are actively and resolutely protesting the EU's decision to initiate the procedure for the so-called. not receiving immigrants for the quotas imposed by Brussels and saying a historical sentence – we protest for trying to punish us and make us obey. That's the essence of what I've been telling you about for a few days now, we're not letting them make us obey. We do not allow the EU and Brussels and the Brussels commissioners to determine how we will live here in Serbia. That is why we think it is very important for the current government to turn to think about Europe's time after the EU's collapse. This amendment actually determines closer the responsibilities of the European disintegration ministry whose task is to prepare a full state administration for a transitional period and to suspend further negotiations on Serbia's EU accession. It is time to start dealing with bilateral relations with all the countries of Europe, but only on an equal basis and exclusively on mutual interest. We have no interest in moving on to the EU at all costs at a time when serious European countries leave the EU and do not want to be harassed and blackmailed by Brussels commissioners. That is why it is extremely important for you to understand the importance of the European Deintegration Ministry and Europe after the EU, because it is today the most powerful topic in Europe. As you have seen, this is what numerous, most prominent European politicians think, such as former Czech President Vaclav Klaus, and that is what a huge number of the most significant political organisations across Europe who are the euro skeptical and, in this sense, Dveri's policy is today the most modern European policy in Serbia. What we stand for, for Europe after the EU, is modern European politics, and Aleksandar Vukic and Cedomir Jovanovic are the last Eurofanatics in modern Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18082	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18083	Thank you. Let me repeat for the citizens once again that here in Serbia, if you have a ruling majority of these, they set up ministries with one paragraph, or one sentence of reason. This ministry of European integration is said to explain why it is being said: "The establishment of the European Integration Ministry is proposed because of significantly higher obligations and the volume of jobs in the EU accession process compared to the earlier existing one, and especially given the growing commitment of the Ministry of Direct Communication with the EU institutions themselves, which the ministry can better respond to as an independent body of state administration than the government's office of the current European integration could do. “ So this should be perhaps the beginning of the reasoning, but this is all of the reasons we have received. Then it goes into conflict with a further explanation that speaks of financial means to implement this law, and it says: "For the implementation of the proposed law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. “ This means that people who were employed in the state administration, who dealt with this issue before the change of this law, who were in the Office for European Integration, will continue to do the same job, so it is completely unclear that the ministry’s existence will now respond to significantly greater obligations and scope of affairs. Obviously, this argument has nothing to do with what the legislator is up to. Otherwise, the law was written by honourable MP Aleksandar Dr Martinovic, who also cited the reasons why the law was passed by an urgent procedure. We have a triple emergency. The session of the Assembly is urgently scheduled for 24 hours and 50 minutes before maintenance, the law is under emergency procedure and still needs to take effect on the urgent day of publication in "The Official Messenger", instead of passing normal eight days. So he explains why the emergency law is passed: “The reasons for passing the proposed emergency law are contained in the need to prevent harmful consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. “ So, for five years, we haven’t had this ministry, and now suddenly we need to save a few days so that the harmful consequences that apparently took place as proposed by the previous five years don’t arise. Although he didn't say what the consequences were, how many there were, and how much these things cost us. Then, he says that the establishment of these ministries would make a significant contribution to improving social relations and that it was evaluated, not saying who assessed this. I suppose he's rated himself without telling us how he assessed it, what criteria and how it's going to contribute to improving social relations and, after all, what social relations? In this way, laws should not be passed in Serbia. So we have ministries that are founded with one sentence of reasoning, which contains no argument in itself. I just read that. At the same time, the directorates are lifted without a single line of reasoning. It's, after all, unserious. Not to mention that humiliation and MPs is an insult to common sense and MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The "Enough" movement will never work like this. In this it is a difference, because of these things people think they are all the same, because this is how it has always been done in Serbia. Partocracy adopts laws without justification, that is also the reason for Serbia's collapse.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18084	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18085	Thank you. One of the ruling party's prominent MPs has today transferred MPs to the opposition to never give solutions, but to always express only opposition to the ruling coalition's proposals. Today's debate on amendments, as well as Saturday's debate, has just shown the opposite, i.e. that part of the opposition to which MPs are also gathered at the Independent Parliaments' Club, which includes members of the Civil Platform, provides concrete solutions and reasons for their acceptance. The main reason why we are against the establishment of the European Integration Ministry is that it is very unusual for the institutional structure of participants to change the concept of EU negotiations in the middle of the accession process. The establishment of this ministry, i.e. the abolition of the European Integration Office, will have a negative impact on the effectiveness of the accession process, i.e. reducing the operationality of European integration institutions, including because the ministry has much more complicated and time-consuming procedures than the office. The minister of one resistor can also not co-ordinate the work of other ministries, but in accordance with the Law on Government of Article 13, it can do so by the authorised Deputy Prime Minister and would be a much better model. The drowning of the Office for European Integrations in the ministry will lead to politicisation of professional affairs and will further drain expert personnel from this institution, which will have an additional negative impact on the European integration process. Based on a recent survey by the Centre for European Policies, about 50% of civil servants involved in the European integration process plan to quit their jobs because they are unhappy with the conditions of work, and improving the position of civil servants is an important condition for EU entry. To repeat what I stated in my previous presentation, the Civil Platform advocates European integration provided that both sides have an honest relationship with this issue, namely that respect and protection of fundamental European values, the rule of law, freedom of speech and the protection of human and minority rights are at the heart of this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18086	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18087	Dear citizens of Serbia, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, in this remaining time of the Devere parliamentary group, I would like to take the opportunity to draw again the importance and part-time work of the family ministry and the population policy that we have provided for this amendment to the Ministry Law. Since the entry of the Dvori into politics and the publication of the New People's Agreement in 2011, we insist that one of the country's priorities of number one must be to care for family, to give birth, to support young couples, families with more children and overall the fight against the white plague in our people and society in general. It's one of the topics on which the Davers are most recognizable and, indeed, if you want in one sentence to say the definition of the Dvori, then it's -- the political movement of family people who insist that family policy should be policy number one in the 21st century. In order for this family policy to get its full institutional foundation, it must have the Ministry of Family and Population Policy and that is what we have foreseen for this amendment intervention. What should this ministry do? Believe me, of the smallest and very important issues, that, say, working hours in Serbia should be returned to hours between 07:00 and 15.00 hours, that Sunday must be an unworkable day, and that everyone must respect, to some much more complex and serious issues, such as the issue of tax reform in Serbia, which should be put into the function of the family. So for every newborn child, you as a family get certain tax benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18088	Thank you, you've wasted your group's time and as authorized. The 10th Amendment, with the correction, was filed by the Devere parliamentary group. The word has Marinika Tepic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18089	According to the amendment, and I would like to use the rest of my time to point out some other risks that have so far been serious in the negotiation process, a critical note, of course, and which is why we cannot support the introduction of the European Integration Ministry in this way. As I said in the first part of the exhibition when I expired that part of the time, what turned out to be a terrible problem in the work so far, and now it seems that only this coordination will continue, which is that at the head of the negotiating working groups in front of the ministries are state secretaries, of which more than half of them speak neither speak English nor are trained by capacity nor by education or experience for the work ahead of them. In that sense, I would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that I hope that the situation as we had at the last intergovernmental conference will never happen again, when the last two negotiating chapters were discussed, when none of the experts who wrote the negotiating chapter was found in the delegation of the Republic of Serbia. So, we didn't have a representative or director of the IPR, or anyone from the Customs Administration. These are the experts who wrote negotiating chapters that will have to be implemented and prepared for harmonisation by tomorrow, but they did not, unfortunately, find a place in the delegation of the Republic of Serbia, which is unacceptable. This relationship with the assessment of non-professional persons who have been rewarded by the heads of the negotiating working groups, and the non-rewarding, punishment, isolation or concealment of professionals who are actually doing Euro-integration work in the most serious part of the job is something that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, in particular, this future meeting that is expected in a few days should face and recognise that it has no capacity or knowledge for it. What I am still obliged to point out at the end of my presentation, for the simple reason that we have listened to in previous statements of praise at the expense of this Government of the Republic of Serbia and the previous Government, or the same composition, which is to leave the impression that the process of Eurointegration began with the arrival of Alexander Vukic at the head of the Government, as the main negotiator. I must remind the public that the opening of the negotiating chapters would not have occurred if the Republic of Serbia had not first gained candidate status. This happened in early 2012, so before Alexander Vukic came to power at all. In order for the Republic of Serbia to gain candidate status in general, it is also important to note that a number of very difficult conditions, including co-operation with The Hague, were previously to be met. So that the government of Alexander Vukic and this entire negotiation process have practically come to a ready-to-go field and solved the most difficult issues from the 1990s to 2012. It is very important to say that the opening of negotiating chapters is a recognition to all governments from 2001 to 2012, when conditions for opening negotiating chapters were obtained, not that under quotes, the newer history or the history of approaching the European Union has been numbered since 2012 and Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18090	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Atlagic, who has writtenly informed that he is giving up. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18091	In fact, Article 10 is a new addition to Article 13a and talks about the responsibilities of the newly formed European Integration Ministry. We in the SRS have a clear and unequivocal stance from the beginning, and we think that Serbia should not go to the European Union and that negotiations with the European Union should be terminated, but even you who are for European integration should know that this ministry is completely excessive to you. We also heard on Friday when it was a principle debate and today from those who competed with you, those who were before you, who are competing for greater merit for European integration, that they and you have worked in line with your policy on these European integration jobs, through all other ministries. Indeed, this special ministry is something that is not in line with either our legal system, nor is it possible that this kind of organisational form exists for the powers that you have foreseen. At least or most how this could have been organised is at the level of any, any, organisational form within the ministry that otherwise deals with it. It can't be when you here often propose laws to us, or most of the time you propose laws, and you say it's based on the European Commission's demands, and then it proposes some resolute ministry. Now this ministry can't be some superintendent who's going to propose, say, laws on behalf of all ministries and that minister to be some superintendent who will be able to represent, on behalf of the Government here, a law from any area. So it's completely unnecessary and I'm not even sure there's a constitutional basis for this, but you just don't need to show your great love for the European Union this way. You've shown it without this ministry. The fact that Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic was disturbed by the minister's name and has no portfolio is probably a problem, but you could have solved it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18092	You've wasted your time with the MPs' group. National MPs Milorad Mircic and Miljan Damjanovic submitted the 10th amendment together. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18093	As an authorised representative? How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18094	Three minutes and 26 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18095	I'll talk very soon. So 13a refers to point 2. I must draw attention to the fact that on September 12th 2008, Serbia passed the Law on the ratification of the SAA and the transitional agreement, and no one has thought of who was in power to form a special ministry for some integrations. Why didn't anyone think of that? Well, there were some ideas, but there was a problem with how to define that state body, what that state body would do. However, some ideas on the subject were also in 2004, but never the idea was raised to the level of a special state body. In particular, the idea was not raised to that level when, you remember in 2012, in a television show, Bozidar Djelic and Jorvanka Tabakovic were kissed as born because Serbia was granted candidate status. It wasn't even the idea to form a special ministry back then. In Section 2, imagine what is written -- that this ministry is co-operating with the Mission of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union. He's working with the mission. That's the only reason he has attitude 2. The ministry's part - co-operation with the Republika Srpska Mission. A paradoxical thing that all the paper is suffering, what someone had to write to create an illusion that it was supposed to be something serious. I have to draw attention to you, regardless of whether anyone is monitoring this transmission or not, since 2012, all those in power in the Republic of Serbia have been monitoring and screening phases. So, friends from the European Union are watching you, and now they're in phase two to examine you, not to mess up something. I am simply appalled by the fact that in the conditions of the British exit, someone is pushing a finger into the eyes of our traditional friends, and I am glad that finally the citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand the whereabouts of Eurofanatics. Who took the lantern from the Democratic Party and where is the last line of defence for Brussels? The last line of defence for Brussels is on Andric's wreath.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18096	The amendment, which suggests adding a new member of the A10, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected this amendment and rejected amendments cannot be discussed. The amendment, with a correction proposed by members of the 10th, was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected this amendment and rejected amendments cannot be discussed. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, together with Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mirčić, together with Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinović and together Zoran Zivković, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18097	Article 11. The bill refers to Article 25 of the basic law, which is amended and complemented by this new proposal and refers to the competence of the Republic of the Reserve Directorate. Indeed, but indeed, it was absolutely unnecessary to change this member, because it was already envisaged that the supervision of the work of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate is being carried out by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, and you are now proposing all the same thing, instead of the "and", you put the "a" ally and you say – these ministries of agriculture, forestry, etc., in the business section of the Directorate with basic agricultural food products. So absolutely unnecessary. It's not even a cosmetic change. But perhaps the problem of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate is not only related to this ally "i" or "a", but to the essence of the functioning of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate for all the affairs that have been following the work of this Directorate for many years and somehow the competent authorities are not saying what is really going on here? Is it just about what we can read in the media, or is there really some crime in the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate? You know, some MPs were also mentioned, in connection with these affairs, some large companies that, in the meantime, seemed to have had to go bankrupt, etc. There are many topics here that would be interesting to discuss, much more important than formally whether the ally is "a" or "i", and essentially nothing changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18098	Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18099	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18100	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by Professor Marko Atlagic, who informed him that he was giving up the amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18101	We just asked the amendment to get something out of the text that shouldn't be in the text. So – the supervision of the work of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate is carried out by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Anything that follows should be thrown out. He can't control the operations of a special organization, and that's the Stock Reserve Directorate, to run two ministries. The Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry is included anyway. On what grounds? Based on inspection and inspection. The Republic Stock Reserve Directorate is quite an independent, administrative organisation, i.e. a special organisation. It independently prescribes its business conditions, with subsequent consent, or prior consent directly to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Apparently, someone doesn't know how the state administration works, so he's determined for the same thing that two state authorities are responsible. The Ministry of Agriculture can't be responsible for these things. It can only carry out inspection checks, such as the quality of the stock of agricultural and food products located at the storage or under the control of the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate. But we obviously have a situation here that the regulation has been written by someone who really isn't in matter and thinks paper can put up with anything, and obviously this insertion is a coalition deal to control each other. Because without mutual control within each ministry, no coalition can function.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18102	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18103	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18104	Thank you. Professor Marko Atlagic, who gave up the amendment, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Members of the 12th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18105	Article 12 refers to Article 27 of the basic law and talks about the Republic hydrometeorological institution. We have submitted the amendment and we really do not understand why this amendment was not adopted? The previous, or still current law states that the supervision of the work of the Republic hydrometeorological institution is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. Now that you've separated this ministry, in these changes you say that the supervision of the work of the Republic hydrometeorological institute is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. We've drawn your attention that it's not a good solution and that this surveillance should be done by the Ministry of the Interior and we've explained very precisely why we think it would be better, more useful, more cellular. The Republic hydrometeorological institution is a special organization and does not belong to any ministry. But we do have the Ministry of the Interior, which we think should carry out this surveillance, which the Emergency Sector has in its possession. And there is no one in this country who is more interested in getting as close as possible to co-operation with the Hydrometeorological Institute as it is with the Ministry of Emergency of the Republic of Serbia. And that is why it would be good to accept this amendment, to have the Ministry of the Interior oversee the work of the Republic hydrometeorological institution and thus to establish that communication between the Emergency Sector and the Republic hydrometeorological institution. You know, we've had a situation in our lives that there's been these weather accidents and that really hydrometeorological institute has played a significant role in the predictions, in the announcements of future events, and we don't really see any reason why this very useful and constructive amendment isn't accepted unless you mind that we suggested it?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18106	Thank you. The 12th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, together Miljan Damjanović and Zoran Krasic, together with Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović, together Zoran Zivković, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18107	We asked this member of the Amendment and Supplement Bill to be deleted. Why did we ask it to be erased? You see for yourself, since the Hydrometeorological Institute has somehow been placed under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture, we have had basic disasters. Why do we have elemental accidents? No one in the Ministry of Agriculture reads that yellow alarm, no red alarm, no warning, and in 2014 you saw that there was anger, they wanted to kill what is leading the water industry, that it did not prepare Serbia to defend itself against the flood. I think we should apply the German system. The Germans have their sport at the Ministry of the Interior. When a cop starts with a pendreka, the athletes reach the world record. And here, since anti-urban missiles are in the jurisdiction of exclusive elements, it should be placed under the control of the Ministry of the Interior, so that someone will listen to what the Hydrometeorological Institute says or won't listen to it! There's nothing until it's placed under control by a state body that has physical force. Because obviously, when the force is applied, this is where the law is respected. If the force is not applied, then the law is not respected, and then we have a situation where some pensioners fire rockets and chase clouds around Serbia in the 1980s. You've seen for yourself, our telecommunications systems work on an analog principle. If you want to take this seriously, under the control of the Ministry of the Interior, the C.I.A., the Emergency Sector, and the best gendarmes from Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18108	The word is Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18109	Thank you. Let me remind you. The Republic hydrometeorological institution is a reference institution with full responsibility for the production and presentation of weather and water forecasts, giving a warning and announcement for extraordinary dangerous weather and hydrological forecasts. So, RHMZ is one very important institution and it is in some way the service of all Serbian citizens. I don't think it should be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, because I believe that forestry, water industry should be transferred to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So if it's one serious ministry, then RHMZ can also deal with all those natural resources. It means that it deals with weather forecasts, hydrological forecasts, that it deals with climate change, because among other things, RHMZ deals with climate change. Hydrometeorological services projects are more or less financed by the EU in the most part and very significant projects. In the past period, under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture, the anti-building defence was given to them as one of the resistors they cared about. That was very bad, therefore because they were given hot potatoes, because the Ministry of Agriculture did not define enough funds for the area. In that sense, I do believe, unless this is a division between coalition partners where the Ministry of Agriculture belongs to the SNS, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection belongs to the SPS, in that sense...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18110	You don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18112	Please. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. (No) The 13th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Bojan Torbica, together with Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović and jointly by Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18113	Article 13 actually sums up all the nonsense of this law. In Article 13, it is written what happens on the day of entry into force of this law with the Ministry, this or that in which something has changed with the offices etc. Then you have a position that says - the ministries that have changed this law will comply with the rules on internal arrangements and the systematization of jobs with the provisions of this law within 30 days of the date of its entry into force, and you are asking that it enter into force immediately. What do you need it for? What do you need when it takes you a month to coordinate these acts? The ministries that begin to work on the day of entry into force of this law, you also say, will bring regulations on internal planning and job systematization again within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. So, completely unnecessary was done this way and again, I was saying today at some point, that your problem is because you didn't do this job in time. If you wanted the new Prime Minister and possibly Prime Minister to surprise some ministries that she may not think should exist, but we'll hear it when she's here, so all in all and this Article 13 you've shown that the proposal is unserious and uncoordinated and that it's not good and it doesn't mean anything, and in one word, such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18114	The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Risticevic, who withdrew the amendment in writing. Member of the 13th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Atlagic, who in writing withdrew the amendments. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by Sandra Raskovic Ivić and Slavisa Ristic. The word is Slavisa Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18115	I thank you, Madam Chairman. This amendment is only the logical consequence of the amendment to Article 1 which we propose to re-expand the Office for Kosovo and Metohija to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and refers specifically to the transitional and final provisions of the draft law on ministries. I would not go any further into the explanation of this proposal, with just one caution, that I would not spoil the will of the ruling majority to vote on this proposal, because I realized that they would vote for this proposal, and I got that impression because I called on them and asked them to vote for this proposal, they were silent, silence is a sign of approval, and I deeply believe that they will vote for this bill. Of course, I must say that the president of the SPS has objected to this proposal, but for the bill, there are enough 128 MPs, we do not need the SPS votes this time. So, once again, I ask you to vote for this law and that will be the real reason for us to celebrate together with the trumpet in the forest square and with the song "Serbia's trumpet from Kosovo" together. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18116	To Article 13. The amendment was submitted jointly by Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. To Article 13. The amendment was submitted jointly: Zoran Krasic and Sreto Peric. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18117	We have only shown this Amendment consistency, compared to the amendments that we have submitted, and as far as this new European Integration Ministry is concerned, then, by logic, things need to be deleted in all the provisions, where those words are mentioned. I have to draw attention to the fact that the establishment of a ministry like this can be interpreted as the wrong thing, at the wrong time and in the wrong place. I think it's too late, it's not modern anymore, the British said what they said, you saw and there are a lot of countries not in the EU, Russia, Belarus, Norway, Norway is still a developed country, traditionally Switzerland is not there, Turkey is in some long-term, transition state, for 40 years, they've been traveling, but from that time obviously there's nothing. You see for yourself, this space of former SFRY is quite unintegrated and will never be integrated, and if we all know that this business has nothing to do, there is no need for you to spend your strength, somewhere I have read that 3,000 civil servants are involved in this process of copying Croatian regulations, chapters, reportedly going there, something is being discussed, unnecessarily expended, money is being spent, and it is difficult for the EU to get some benefit, given that Kosovo and Metohija are taking advantage of us, that they also announced Vojvodina, if not like this, then through the purchase of land, and be assured that Eurofanatics will eventually get out of this process and all misery will fall on you, and you are neither guilty nor guilty. Guilty and indemnity, except you love power.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18119	Thank you. Since the end of the time our MP group had, I'd just like to explain to those who didn't understand, my colleague Ristic was joking today. He knows that the ruling majority will not support the amendment on the establishment of the ministry for Kosovo and Metohija, because in this way at least as much as save face and at least keep that bar formal...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18120	That's not what this amendment is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18121	No, I know it's not. On the other hand, enough has been said, and not only by us Eurosceptics, but also by people and colleagues from the opposition who support European integration, that they do not support the proposal to introduce a new ministry, because, given all the arguments, even those who support only the idea of European integration, they cannot support this and this formulated proposal. As for those of us who are against it, that's quite clear. Just to point out, it's not just about Kosovo and Metohija, it's not just about how much Dimitri Rogozin today, he's probably the authority I assume to be for the ruling majority, the vice-president of the Russian government, says -- he'll never see you in the European Union, I repeat, I quote -- he'll never see you in the European Union, and we're building the European Integration Ministry, and that's how we turn out to be unserious both in front of our traditional allies and in front of Russia and in front of that European Union and the Brussels Bureau itself. In this sense, it is a little excessive that in the middle of the Eurointegration process, we are in some way entering that story, we would only recommend ourselves, that the current government be recommended as better contractors than predecessors of Brussels' bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18122	This wasn't about the amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted to the same text by Vladimir Djuric and a joint parliamentary group of the Democratic Party. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18123	Thank you. Therefore, by emergency procedure, the Directorate for Electronic Administration is repealed. I proposed an amendment not to do that. The emergency procedure is justified by the need to address the adverse consequences. We assume then that these adverse consequences are caused by the present existence of the Electronic Administration Directorate. Citizens standing at 36 degrees in front of the SUP and the Republic Health Insurance Fund, waiting for electronic driver's licenses, ID cards, passports, health books, the best on their skin in this heat, and the adverse consequences of the work done by the Electronic Administration Directorate so far. However, instead of raising it to a slightly better level, we end this directive without a single word of reason as to what these jobs will be further and who will take them on. We are inclined to believe first of all that she will take over in Germany 11, in the government building or under her authority as prime minister and that she will run IT projects. So, I am very interested in seeing, and all of us, I suppose, and especially the citizens standing in line, will be able to make sure that the mayor as an IT project manager of all the projects of the e-government in Serbia is able to make sure that the citizens of the house order and at home address get a passport, by making the order done electronically, by paying the fees electronically by the state to perform electronically in the databases, by checking that these fees have been paid, by Topcider to order the production of that document and when that document is finished and certified, it will be sent to the citizen at home as it has been, for example, in Slovenia, for some ten years. I, knowing the adverse consequences, have taken them into account now by the urgent process of adopting this law, by emergency adoption and emergency entry into force, we remove, without any doubt, but as the citizens stand in line and cook in the sun, waiting for the documents, at least the powers, and we have learned today, that they are watching a flag mast for which the Belgrade City Assembly will single out, citizens, watch out for good, three million euros. It'll probably be a singing mast, as well as a singing fountain. Well, let the citizens hear what this authority has prepared for them, so let them make sure of it when they come out for the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18124	The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18125	Thank you. As my colleague Djuric said, you are proposing to this member to stop working, to stop the existence of the Electronic Administration Directorate. We, colleague Martinovic, ask you again – why? In that explanation that you signed as the legislator of this law, you didn't say in one single word why the Electronic Administration Directorate was abolished, but for you, it was done by several other people. First of all, your colleague sitting on your left, our colleague Orlic, who said that this is because from now on all ministries will deal with the electronic administration and that the existence of such a directorate is not necessary. After that, a colleague of ours from the SPS Jovanovic, who said it was because this directive would now become the power of the Ministry of Energy. After these two of our colleagues, it was done by the prime minister for the composition of the future government, who said it was because this directive would now become the office of the president's cabinet, because she is personally interested in running the project. With the question – which of these three people should we trust, since none of them are very trusting, let's say, let's say, that it's true what the prime minister said, although it does not say in the law, that this directive will in future go to her jurisdiction. Now, allow me, colleague Martinovic, to ask you again – why? Why do you choose to move the Directorate of Electronic Administration into the direct jurisdiction of the Prime Minister who, at least so, and we believe in the DS, has little time to deal with the Directorate for Electronic Administration? That's where two answers are now imposed. The first is that the future Prime Minister Brnabic likes to deal with the electronic administration, so this law is now satisfying some of its whims, etc., and the second possibility is that you think that she is the only one able to do the job and that the one who will come to her place as minister of state administration and local self-government will not be able to do this job well, where we are again being imposed on the third question – why? Why did you not achieve a single result for the minister during her term of office, where she set up an electronic administration as her goal? We have in Novi Sad, a colleague of Martinovic, to get up one morning early, to see hundreds of people waiting in line every day, how people have to take off days and vacations because when they arrive at five o'clock in the morning they can't make their turn until eight o'clock when they're due to go to work. It is not the only problem that plagues our citizens when it comes to electronic administration, which apparently the future prime minister is unable to impose order. So, on the condition that she is telling the truth, and that colleagues Orlic and Jovanovic are telling the truth, you choose to choose to the woman who, when it was a job, failed to bring order into the area, now let her do it and when it's not her job. Come on, colleague Martinovic, blink if you understand what you're talking about, because it seems you don't really follow what we're talking about at the session anymore, since you haven't given any signs of understanding for four or five hours that you understand what we're talking about. So, you answer why you're suspending the Directorate for Electronic Administration? Why are your colleagues and our colleagues telling a lie? Why do three people give three different answers why this administration is abolished? Answer why you're giving it to the prime minister, if what she says is true? And, why, for the world's sake, do you think she's capable of solving that question when she hasn't solved it in the past tense?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18126	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18127	My colleague Jerkov has given a lot of arguments, which is why the DS Parliament Club has submitted this amendment. We repeat, the Electronic Administration Directorate is required to remain in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. We didn't get any answers, no arguments during today's debate. It's clear and we've heard the key arguments. The most important are citizens who are waiting in line for health books, for ID cards, for driver's licenses and for many other documents, but other things are important. It is important to optimise the work of all local self-government, all capacities of the state administration. It is clear that 175 municipalities and cities very often have incompatible information systems and that it is necessary to have a unique access to electronic administration that will integrate all these systems. What does that mean? Efficient use, compatibility of all systems, means saving money, means much faster response and much faster work of the entire system. That is why we propose such an amendment that will be useful for the functioning of such important highlights as did the Prime Minister's mandate, saying that IT, that electronic administration will be one of its important priorities. It is indeed an invitation, or give an answer, I think you have the opportunity to now accept this amendment at the vote, to accept that amendment, our amendment with all these arguments, simply come out of these insufferable answers that we have heard in recent days about where there will be a future coordination of such an important job in Serbia. Accept this amendment, step out of this problem in an elegant way, regardless of what DS has offered this solution. I think it is important for all citizens of Serbia, it is important for both efficient administration and local self-government, and the state administration. I repeat, it is most important for all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18128	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18129	Do I have time from authorized? I don't know if I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18130	No, I don't. The 13th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs from the Dveri Group. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18131	Thank you, Chairman. This is about transitional and final provisions so that they can start working on the ministries that we have proposed, which are the Ministry of Family and Population Policy, the Ministry of Serbs in the region and the disseminating, the Ministry of Faith, the Ministry of KIM and the Ministry of European Disintegration. It is also an obligation to continue the e-Government Directorate. In particular, it would be good for citizens, and they could feel positive effects on the family and ministry of European disintegration in the short term. We were able to hear from the chairman today that EU LGBT values are the highest. However, I completely reject it. These may be the values of the EU, but the only values common to each European state, whether or not it is an EU member, are Christian values, and this is an irrefutable fact that really drives you to think. If we were to introduce the Ministry of Family and Ministry of European Disintegration, we would completely change our priorities about our country, so that would no longer be LGBT values of the EU, but would be family, children, persons with disabilities. Also, that ministry would affect the work of the other ministries, above all the Ministry of Education, to finally get a family-oriented education, not all those scandals that we had the opportunity to see for the heritage of LGBT values, and besides, surely...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18132	You've wasted your time. Thank you. No, I'm not looking for a replica, you didn't understand anything I said. It's late now. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 14th amendment. You're the one who pulled the letter. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Marko Atlagic, to Article 14. You took it in writing, too. The 14th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic and jointly Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18133	Thank you. This law, in addition to coming to the Assembly by emergency procedure, also envisioned the entry into force of the day of publication in the “Official Messenger. ” Of course, the Constitution says that the laws in the Republic of Serbia, Article 196, take effect on the eighth day from the day of publication, and that they can enter early if there are particularly justified reasons to do so in the bill. What did the promoter state as those reasons for entry into force before the eighth day? He says it has been estimated to contribute significantly to improving social relations in areas for which the two ministries that are educated by this law are educated, as well as more effective work by the state administration. So, in my opinion and the opinion of my parliamentary group, there is no reason and the only reason why this is done by the ruling majority is the manner of haughtiness, the manner of disrespect, and the constant gazing of the Constitution and the legal system of Serbia, where the ruling majority of its non-doing in the previous three months, as far as there is that elections in the Republic of Serbia have been held, has brought itself into a time-based chat that it cannot pass this law which should then wait eight days to come into force, and then by that law to choose the government. This is no longer possible, and only because of the inability of the ruling majority and then it resorts to abuse of constitutional norm, one law that absolutely did not need to be adopted by an emergency procedure and to take effect the next day after publication in the "Official Messenger" it does so. That's another reason why we can't support this law and solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18134	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18135	It is proposed that this law enters into force on the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger", and it is legally possible and a particular explanation is needed as to why it is proposed. You explained that the law should take effect on the day of publication in order to get conditions for the start of work of the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of European Integration, as it was estimated that this would contribute significantly to improving social relations in areas for which these two ministries are being educated, as well as more effective work by the state administration. If I'm a good reader, and I'm a good reader, you're here to say that the government hasn't been effective enough in the past. So on the one hand, you informed us that the governments of Alexander Vukic, the previous ones, were not working well. On the other hand, it was not effective enough for the state administration, and for days you convince us that the greatest value of Ana Brnabic, as prime minister, and a recommendation for the Prime Minister, has been made by some boom and some miracle precisely in the state administration and local self-government. So you're not quite yourself when you predict this and it actually shows that you're really worried about what you wrote and what you're going to say. You're gathered here to vote, there's enough of you to vote on this, and you don't care how this happened, whether you participated in the debate, whether you were constructively involved. When you were to insult the MPs and the MPs, then you participated in the debate, and when this proposal was to be discussed, you were nowhere to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18136	The 14th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Bojan Torbica, with correction, together Sreto Perić and Zoran Krasic and jointly Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Cabraj. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18137	Article 14 refers to the entry into force of this bill, which is the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. We had two dilemmas: to propose not to enter the day of publication, but on the eighth day of publication and to celebrate that the National Assembly had passed a law for the past year where it respected the constitutional provision. Since so far it's either the day of publication, or tomorrow. We calculated that a mistake could be made, so that, in accordance with the Constitution, he entered the eighth day. We knew, the saint and the troupe were coming, we knew who we were dealing with, so we submitted the second amendment where we're asking it to be erased. Now someone is going to ask the question - what kind of bill is that if the provisions on entry into force are deleted? What a law, such a provision. What's our goal? That this law never comes into force. Why? With which right you amend the best law, the Ministry Act, with which the previous government and the previous government achieved epochal results. Everything spills, not just in the fountain, but everywhere, pensions higher, wages higher, EPS 500 million, what was it? This law, this bill of law, is against the president of the Republic of Serbia. We guard our position when the President of the Republic of Serbia, the NJ. E. Mr. President of Serbia, with his wife, not to be ruined by this Martinovic. He did everything against him. Here's a bill of law that can go in that beautiful book with that nice picture. It's all against the President of the Republic, and the people chose him 56%.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18138	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Do any of the amendment applicants want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Use the time of the parliamentary group, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the citizens of Serbia, who followed the course of today's working day in the National Assembly, could very clearly conclude why all those against this bill went so badly in the elections, which took place on 2 April, why they went badly in the elections both in 2014 and 2016. I can conclude that, in some cases, they run this country, I think the Republic of Serbia would be ruined in 24 hours. Today, if you could notice, SNS MPs and our coalition partners, we've been silent all afternoon and we've tried to hear if we're going to see any arguments against this bill. We've only heard a lot of noise, a lot of hysteria, a lot of political hatred. We've heard a lot that has nothing to do with amendments to the Ministry Act. We heard some moaning for electronic administration, and while they were in power, they weren't even able to translate the parent books into electronic form. We have heard some who have talked for two days about being the EU's biggest opponents, just not opponents of European couples, and who are funded by EU funds and through EU-funded projects. We've heard of some thousands and tens of thousands of citizens, who are reportedly waiting in some lines to issue IDs, traffic permits, etc. You know, when you enter Novi Sad, through the Freedom Bridge, right on the right, there are offices of the Republic of Serbia's MUP for the City of Novi Sad, where personal documents are issued for citizens and there are absolutely no lines. (Vladimir Djuric): Let them hear it again. ) All citizens of Novi Sad can also hear and see that there are no rows there. We listened on Saturday, and today, some of whom are reportedly doctors of legal science, who have criticised this bill that they do not know that the Republic of Serbia has since 2005 the State Administration Act, which prescribes what the affairs of the state administration are. We've heard that some legal experts don't know the area from jurisdiction. We've heard a lot of those who defend KIM, from here, from the circle of two, and their children are educated in London, Paris, and in some other European capitals. At the time, ambassadors to countries whose politics allegedly opposed buying pumpkins, jewelry, were taking big money, allegedly for the Serbs at KIM, and Serbs in KIM did not see a single dinar. All the things we've heard, I've come to a conclusion as a proponent of this law. This law will allow the new government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be formed in the next few days, to continue the same policy led by the government and the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, which means the opening of new factories, the opening of new jobs, the real growth of pensions and wages in the public sector, that means further GDP growth, the reduction of the budget deficit, the continuation of the fight, the uncompromising fight against crime and corruption, further improvement of our education and health system, further jump on the doing business list, further attracting investment, both domestic and foreign, and of course, a better life for all of them, including, of course, their families whom we from the SNS want all the best, and for those who hit Alexander Vucic and SNS for two days. We will fight to make them better too, because that is what we are bound to, first of all, the results of the election. The election results are binding on all of us today who will vote in favour of the bill, and all those who will vote in favour of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, to fight for the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, including, of course, those colleagues, MPs, who think of us from the SNS and Alexander Vukic all the worst. It is theirs to hate, it is theirs not to respect the electoral will, and it is ours to fight for Serbia, it is ours to teach everything that Serbia is to be an advanced, decent and orderly state and to leave it in a much better condition for our descendants than we have found those who have systematically destroyed it for 12 years, both politically and economically, and safely and in any other way possible. I want to thank all the MPs of the SNS, and our friends from other parliamentary groups, who will vote for this bill, for the combatability, for showing that we are different from those who cannot lead any other policy, except hate policy, that we can listen to everyone's opinion. We didn't throw anyone away today, we didn't insult anyone, on any basis, national, religious, or full, or any other. We had enough patience to listen to everyone's opinion and we realized that the only road ahead of Serbia is the path of work, tenacity, diligence and concern for all citizens of Serbia. Everything else isn't a road, it's a road trip, and we just don't have the right to go the wrong way. For too long, Serbia has gone astray. Now is the time to get her back on track, to give Serbian citizens a normal and decent life, to provide them peace, to ensure stability, to live the way citizens live in all the normal states of the world. Thank you once again and thank you for voting for the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, because you will vote for the policy of the man who hit the foundations of a stronger, stronger, stronger and fairer Serbia, because you will vote for the politics of Alexander Vukic who has received the convincing support of Serbian citizens. Those who lost the election can say that Aleksandar Vukic should go to the wax museum, but the citizens said otherwise. Citizens said they would also support his vision of a modern democratic and decent Serbia. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18140	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Monday, June 26th, 2017, starting at 8:15 p.m., as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-26-0.u18141	Dear MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 147 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for voting. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 154 against – seven abstentions. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The first amendment was submitted to the same text by Djordje Vukadinovic and Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted – 163 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 1st amendment was submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS-National Movement of Serbia submitted a parliamentary group to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The first amendment was jointly submitted by Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Slavisa Ristic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The first amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Dejan Sulkic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic and the MP group of Independent MPs' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by Milorad Mircic and Verica Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Dejan Sukic, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by Dejan Sukic, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic, together with Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Verica Radet and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 4th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Dejan Sulkic, together with Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic and the Parliament Group of Independent MPs I put to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Dejan Šulkic, along with Milorad Mircic and Zoran Krasic and Parliament Group of Independent MPs I put to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Verica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Dejan Sulkic, together with Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic, a parliamentary group of independent MPs and a parliamentary group of Dveri. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Dejan Sulkic, Vladimir Djuric, Nemanja Sarovic, Zoran Krasic, the Parliamentary Group of Independent MPs, the Dveri parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Verica Radet and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, a parliamentary group of Independent MPs and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sukic, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic, together with Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djorđe Vukadinovic and the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment, with the correction, was filed by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mircic and Miljan Damjanovic submitted the 10th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic, together with Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović and the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 12th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Zoran Krasic, together with Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Diana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic and the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 12th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic and Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Slavisa Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dijan Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MP Vladimir Djuric and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment, with corrections, was filed by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 14th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic and Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 14th amendment, in the same text, was brought together by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic and the Social Democratic Party MP group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 versus – 12, with abstentions - there is no. I find that the Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the amendment and supplementation of the Ministry Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no two MPs voted for – 157 against – 11 abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. We're moving on to Rules of Procedure's injuries. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 24 June 2017, at 10 o'clock and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—one, abstained—one. I find that there is no injured member. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 24 June 2017, at 10 o'clock and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare, "No one, against – three, abstention – one." I find that there is no injured member. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 24 June 2017, at 10 hours and 43 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103, paragraphs 4, 5 and 6. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one, abstentioned, one. I find that there is no injured member. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 24 June 2017, at 12 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – three, abstention – one. I find that there is no injured member. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 26 June 2017, at 10 o'clock and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that there is no injured member. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 26 June 2017, at 11 o'clock and 58 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 27 and 106. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that there is no injured member. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on June 26th, 2017, at 12 hours and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that there is no injured member. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 26 June 2017, at 12 hours and 33 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that there is no injured member. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on June 26, 2017, at 12 hours and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that there is no injured member. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 26 June 2017, at 17 hours and 19 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that there is no injured member. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
