ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21686	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, in the 11th session. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 80 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Meho Omerovic and Gordana Komic. We continue the joint principled search on items 1 - 4 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, with associates. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21687	President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, today I will talk about two laws; a bill on the National Academy and a proposal for a law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business. The draft law on the National Academy is an integral part of public administration reform and should therefore be seen as part of a complex and long-term process. It is predicted that the Academy of Officers is training with basic skills and that they can acquire additional knowledge, such as the application of laws and regulations of procedures and rules in work. Also, compared to the existing situation and the existing framework of training, it is envisaged to analyse the needs of employees, but also to see the impact of training to be realized and what effect they have on efficiency in further work. It is important to stress that certain changes will be made through the National Academy of Knowledge by applying electronic administration in full capacity, i.e. fully invigorating, and this will certainly make certain changes because electronic services will change the way public servants work and affect the change in behaviour towards end-users, towards citizens in the economy. The adoption of this law will first introduce compulsory education for public servants at all levels, both at the level of the Republic and at the level of local self-government and at the level of the Autonomous Region. When we talk about state administration, it is important to understand it in accordance with modern trends, to perceive it as a system that regulates social processes and which should provide the necessary conditions for the smooth life and the work of citizens and for the progress of society. The primary objective of the administration should not be just to enforce the law. The main objective of the administration should be the general interest, to put the general interest first. Public services are also established to meet certain needs of general interest, which are important for both the entire social community and each individual, or every citizen. It is essential that we reform the public administration in order to function on all priority actions, I mean education, cultural, health, social, but also on actions that are important to improve certain industries. As human society is in continuous development and as it is a dynamic process, public service needs are growing and bigger year after year, not only with us but also in the whole world. In complex conditions of modern life, public administration is a rather organised infrastructure that must have great expertise and human potential. That is why the establishment of the National Academy is important in order to achieve this higher level of knowledge and expertise in public services as soon as possible. So depoliticalisation and professionalisation are key principles of public administration reform. When we talk about efficient public administrations in the world, we need to know that they have built their system for centuries, haven't built it for a decade or more, it's an uninterrupted process where certain quality standards are reached, but developed systems don't stop at just these standards, they continue to improve them further. I'll give you a few examples. Examples of Eastern European countries, an example from the Australian continent and an example from France. Eastern-European countries took two decades, some and more, to reach standards in providing the quality of public services, such as in developed European democracies, to stand side by side with one Germany, Belgium or France. The path should now be followed by Serbia, to determine that the public administration is a service of citizens. We are after a period of socialist self-management faced with the need for rapid reform of the state administration. Given the fact that the public administration plays a significant role in providing conditions for EU accession, it is therefore a priority for this task. Eurointegration requires us to have an increase in professional, intellectual and other administrative capacities that must monitor work in the future. On the importance of public administration reform, I will also point out an example from the Australian continent, as I have already said. In New Zealand, at the end of the 1970s and 1980s, they did research and came to one conclusion, which is that the public administration must justly provide services to all citizens. Just from this assumption, they reformed the public administration in a quick and efficient way. In France, the last major public administration reform took place about 30 years ago. They came from a completely different assumption – they started from the work of private companies. As private companies must transform, adapt to the environment and meet users, they felt it is necessary that public administration should be exposed to the constant criticism of end-users. In this way, in France, a single administration has been established that listens to the voice of citizens and cares about the quality of services, i.e., the administration is created as a public service, whose when the process of permanent education is subject to, in order to acquire new knowledge and skills, and that is where progress will be made when the National Academy is set up. With us, the first public administration reform strategy was adopted in 2004, and the guidelines we use today are from three years ago, from 2014. It is defined that the rationalisation of the state administration is a permanent process, which involves the abolition of unnecessary jobs, simplification of procedures, reduction of the number of employees in places for which there is no need and other aspects of savings, but all that does not reduce efficiency and efficiency in work. We still have higher pay outages for public sector employees compared to other European countries. We are at some level of 12% of gross social product and this is a reduced percentage compared to the previous years, but surely, according to this strategy, we should go in the future to reduce that percentage to about 8% of GDP. Of course, modernization will have to be done, which I was already talking about, in order to raise the level of quality of public services. The National Academy will also allow for a different way of progress in the service. We cannot allow officials to be in one job, to do their job indifferently, and to wait for them to retire. The modern state, based on the principles of justice and justice, should allow exactly for a public servant to be depolitised, educated and independent, and for his promotion in the ministry to be in line with merits and opportunities. The formation of the National Academy as the central institution of the system of professional training is undoubtedly a major step towards professionalisation and promotion of public administration. The current conditions give the impression that employees in the public administration are having an uneven participation in training programmes. In the longer run, this could have consequences such as inadequate or insufficient levels of knowledge and expertise of public administration employees. Also, I think we can spot another problem, which is that there is currently no coherence when it comes to training programmes, at the level of the Republic and at the level of local self-government. That's why this law has to solve it, or standardize this process. The law needs to solve another problem, which is that there is now no full record of how training is determined and how they are realised, what is the effect of such training. That's why central records will be formed, as a new quality. If we also analyse professional training models in EU Member States, we will notice that most of them have a central institution in charge of general training. This bill also defines how to co-operate with other publicly recognised organizers of adult education, i.e. the exact conditions in which they will be able to carry out training. The bill also provides for the professional bodies of the National Academy, which are: the Programme Council and the Permanent Programme Commission. The Programme Council shall consist of 15 members and shall aim to place its members’ expertise and experience in the role of the National Academy in order to improve the professional training of public administration employees. On the other hand, permanent programming commissions are educated according to thematic areas where professional training is carried out. It may be unclear in the law how long the term of office will take for members of the Programme Council, as well as how many members of the programme committees will have. I don't know if it'll be a five-year term, as well as the director of the program council. As for the acquisition of knowledge and education in the public administration, we can always pull the parallel with the acquisition of knowledge and skills in the private sector, so that we can say that the development of intellectual capital is crucial for the successful performance of work and that knowledge is precisely the factor that makes the difference between successful and unsuccessful. The reform of the public administration is in a way also a reform of the state, as it changes its organisation and functioning. A reformed and efficient administration is one of the strong pillars of the rule of law and is in some ways one of the mechanisms in the fight against corruption. Only a strong, trained and efficient state administration can provide citizens and economic operators with quality services, with reasonable costs. The public administration must be economical, and citizens must have insight into how the money available to the public administration is spent, because they are taxpayers. A good way to reduce these costs is also to function the electronic administration in full capacity. I will also touch the Law on civil servants, and I think it is a good solution that will be constantly employed, both at the level of local self-government and at the level of the Republic, able to move from one post to another, with the consent of the manager and with its own consent, without competition. The adoption of the draft laws on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business enables our legal order in this area to be brought into line with the new EU regulation and with new legal solutions in this area. The law will allow electronic documents to have the same importance as paper documents, those we are used to using so far. This provides for the introduction of new instruments that provide evidence, both identification and authenticity of data in digital form. So far, we have known the role of electronic signature to some extent, and a number of citizens and businesses have used this instrument. Newspapers such as electronic stamps, electronic delivery and data storage are now being introduced. These are all preconditions for electronic documents to have evidence and legal power and to be valid in each procedure. The newspaper I'm talking about will certainly have a positive impact on business activities, but also on citizens. We, for example, will be able to use mobile phones using a specific application to use an electronic signature, to give payment orders, to provide requests for certain documents. By electronic means, we'll be able to finish those jobs we've wasted a lot of time on so far, going from counter to counter. The effect of this law will also be good when we talk about saving materially, but also when we talk about saving time. So far, we've had a situation where electronic delivery has not been treated as valid. Now this changes, and it will have the same importance as the usual delivery formats for us so far, while ensuring greater reliability that a particular document will be delivered. Another advantage this law will allow is the keeping of documents in electronic form. It will bring material savings when we talk about a long period of time, so I think that the slowly storage of paper documents will go back into history. In addition to the direct effects that this law will cause, in the next period, we will have a lot of indirect influence on other areas, by having to change the relevant rules governing these areas, so that the mechanisms prescribed by the law can be applied in full capacity. For example, if we want a modern electronic administration, it is doubtless that, in addition to the entry into force of this law, certain legal norms in the Law will have to be amended in the electronic administration. There is a long and difficult period for the law to have optimal application in practice. Also, it is very important to work on raising citizens' awareness and building citizens' confidence in electronic documents, but regardless of all the difficulties that will surely be, it is important to know that when we look at at least a little into the future, that this is the only correct option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21688	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21689	Dear citizens of Serbia, we have before us the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration and several other laws. I'll just talk about him. I think this is an issue that deserves attention. Our principled objection to this law is that, if this law is adopted in the form in which it is proposed here, it will allow the whole process of training to continue to be influenced by policies and political parties, the training of civil servants, public administration officials. It is our view that this kind of training of professional training is necessary, that it is certainly commendable to try to make public administration, public administrations in the Republic of Serbia a professional crust, that people who will professionally do their job come here. However, I am afraid that the way the National Academy is conceived in this law will not be able to provide it. I will announce, and then I will elaborate two important changes that we have proposed in the amendments that we have sent to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, first of all, we think it is wrong for this whole concept to focus solely on public administration and public administration, we would already like education, training, training for practical work to be directed to the field of public policy. Therefore, we want to improve the expertise of public administration employees, both from the field of public administration and public administration, and from the field of analysis of public policies and the production of public policies. And, the most important and perhaps the most radical change that we propose is that until the conditions of the National Academy of Public Administration are obtained, not as a special institution, but as a programme to be implemented at higher education institutions established by the Republic of Serbia. I'll explain everything I've said here in a short while. So, what exactly is the point of this Academy? Why are we introducing such additional education, further improving the knowledge that public administration employees have? Because public administration, needs and society are constantly changing. Therefore, it is necessary, like everyone in the private sector, that the public sector is constantly adapting to the changes that arise in society, in the economy and in other areas of public life. Let's say, one of these things, which has been implemented around the world for a long time within the framework of the Sigma project, which this law calls for in its explanation, is, let's say, to improve administrative transparency of state decisions, to ensure that public administration behaves in accordance with certain ethical principles, that citizens' needs come out with more attention, with more motivation to help citizens, to respect the right to appeal to citizens' administrative decisions, to protect citizens' data, for example, data relating to some of their personal information, etc., let's say, things like hotline for citizens, where citizens would be met by giving them the necessary information concerning public administration work. All of these practices that, for example, in the past 10 years in Serbia have been very unscrupulous to enter the public sector, and 10 years ago, or during the 1990s, they were not known at all. So the atmosphere in society is changing, the way citizens see public administration is changing, so the public administration has to follow these trends. We need a more efficient public administration, with more motivation, which comes out more to the citizens. Now I have one question here. Is it really necessary for this level of change and adaptation that we need for the National Academy of Public Administration to exist? A lot of these things can change right now. If, for example, in the Serbian Parliament Assembly, the president of parliament cuts the discussion in 255 minutes, completely past any law, that message goes public, and then civil servants who work in public administration get a message that they interpret like this – if the president of the Assembly can violate the Rules of Procedure, Laws, etc., why shouldn't I? You know, you don't need a National Academy for that kind of thing. All it takes is that there are people who are safe and legally doing their job. That's, say, one thing that can change right away, without any introduction of public academy as an institution. The changes that occur in society are very often related, too, to the new laws that are being passed, as well as to the new policies that the government is implementing. And there, too, public administration employees need the necessary new knowledge. They go beyond this first level of knowledge that I was just talking about, so going out to meet citizens, more efficient public administration, ethical behaviour of public administration, that's all one level, to say, that can be solved without some special institutionally-based education. But when a new law comes or a new policy is to be implemented, things are a little more complicated. Who will train civil servants when a new law is passed, say, in the field of human rights or in the field of energy, to protect the human environment, if, for example, health reform, so private security is imposed as mandatory? This requires that the law be changed, as well as a change in public policy. Who's going to train civil servants or public service employees then? Well, there will be people who do this and among other things, who are employed at higher education institutions in the Republic of Serbia. These are people who work at universities in this country or at scientific and research institutes in this country, both public and private. In that sense, I think there is, because these people are going to train people in public administration, and these people are going to be, simply, employees, probably they're going to be employed or engaged at the National Academy, as you imagined, which is why the whole thing wouldn't be done at higher school institutions? This proposal has more advantages. I'll say more about them in a few minutes. Secondly, why do we need an analysis of public policies as an integral part of the training of civil servants? Because a large part of civil servants do not understand at all what a single policy means, regardless of what policy it is, can be health, education, cultural, economic. How do you see that? It is seen by, for example, when we get into this assembly the laws that we need to adopt, in the part where the reasoning of the law is found, very often, that the reasoning actually represents a mere repetition of the members of the law. The one who wrote the argument does not understand what the point is and what should be the effect of the legal provisions that came here in the Assembly for adoption. That's not always the case. For example, your law, this law is quite well-founded. It can be seen that it was written by someone who understands public policy, but believe me, there are a lot of laws that come into the congregation. I was simply shocked to see that the reasons for the law were to convince what was written in the provisions themselves. So someone just in other words convinces me what it says in Article 1, Article 2, Article 3, Article 4. And then comes the minister or some civil servant who should also be referred to public policy, and then convinces by reading from the paper that explanation and spending here 20, 25 minutes on what we could already read here ourselves. One of the important things that is also related to the concept of public policy, which is why all public administration employees, regardless of which ministry or what level of government or what part of the public sector they are working on, should know about both cost-benefit analysis. We have been working very long and very often with problems related to this kind of analysis and that give us legal solutions and push the country to implement policies that have more damage and little benefits. I'm going to give you, say, one example that we discussed here last week, which is an example of education policy, where it was suggested that the state single out, commits itself to making money to buy school textbooks for all children, as well as free access to kindergartens for all children. Now, someone here has repeated several times from the ruling majority that there is no money in the budget. Of course there's no money when it's spent on things where the social benefits aren't great. In Belgrade, for example, a large part of the money is spent on things like fountains or such as masts that will benefit me from not knowing exactly who, and then it is said – there is no money to build more kindergartens so that all children have free access to them. What is the social benefit of a fountain that no pedestrian can access in downtown Belgrade? I'd like to say, let's say, I've seen the cost analysis and the use of such... (Blaža Knezevic: To bathe. Let me take a bath, shall I? Excellent comment. I'd like to see an analysis of the costs and benefits of that analyst who proposed that kind of spending of public funds, see what actually missed the damage that occurred by investing two million dinars in the fountain. How many kindergartens, say, could it have been built for? Here are a few other things that are particularly problematic in this law, and these are the ways in which these bodies of this national academy are established. Mr. Minister, who chooses the director of the National Academy, do you know? I don't know, because there's not a single word in this law about how the director of the National Academy is elected. (Vojislav Seselj: In competition. In what competition, Mr. Seselj, in what member? Another thing, since it will be some kind of educational institution, this academy, as predicted by this law, is that the accreditation system of the institution has been removed from the existing accreditation system in the Republic of Serbia. So, all the universities applying for accreditation have one level of standards that need to meet, but the national academy, which may actually be one of the most important institutions, as proposed by this law, will have completely different standards, and how can we read in the light of this law, the minister will prescribe. So, I guess, since there is no answer to the question of how the director is elected, the director will be elected by the minister, the ministry or the government. That, too, the entire system will be advocating, in terms of accreditation of the programme, also the Government and that we will then get one institution that will be completely political in character. What happens when professional institutions, which need to perfect and complement the knowledge of people who need to professionally do their job, are under the influence of politics? We saw the other day, when one, by definition, is a professional institution, which even in the law has a decree that its director must not be a party man, does his job by taking as a problem of national security folk music and then asking if he might... (Vladimir Orlic: Is that a theme? It is a theme, listen carefully. So, a professional professional institution that takes folk singers and interrogates him with suspicion that he may have made a song that is contrary to the national interests of the Republic of Serbia. How did this happen? By being the director of that party man's institution, the party official. It's a political decision. Let's say I give you another example, with university accreditation. Several times, the university whose activities we have here are tied to a national MP, to be fully open to Mr Zukorlic, has reported to the Accreditation Commission in the last 10 years to receive accreditation for that university. He was rejected twice because he did not meet the standards, and then in 2015, the government of the Republic of Serbia gave him a Card Blanche solution that his university could freely work on until the accreditation process was completed. You know, if that's how universities get credentials and the National Academy gets credentials, then it's going to come down to one big nothing, another party institution where the completion, I guess, will only get party personnel to perform some party activity in public administration. Mr. Minister told us yesterday that the point of this national academy is that civil servants, people in public administration, address citizens more kindly and be better addressed. Mr. Minister, you can do this without any academy right now. All it takes is for this congregation, let's say, is to see that everyone treats each other like that, so as not to violate the Rules of Procedure and the Law, to throw himself away while others speak... (Vojislav Seselj: There is no such thing. ) There is no such thing as the President of the Assembly annulled it with its acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21690	Ambassador, be kind, if you know anything about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21691	Of course, I talk about the president's law all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21692	Be kind and talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21693	Of course, thank you for reminding me of my duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21694	So that every session will not be ridiculed and ridiculed. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21695	So, all of what you said yesterday or a lot of what you said yesterday can be achieved by, let's say, in this assembly that we start acting like one, so the civil servants will see how they should treat the citizens, because the chicaning of people in the Assembly is actually an indirect flailing of citizens. I didn't come here because I wanted to come here on my own, I kind of came in here myself, I got pushed, but someone chose me in the election to represent him here. By scuffing me, you've been scrambling those people who chose me. People in the public administration will see it as a message about how they should behave. So, instead of creating a new public culture in the public sector, which this academy, among other things, should do, to create a new system of state and public officials' behaviour towards citizens, you will make that institution, if you adopt such a law, a party body, or you will strengthen a party culture in that one body that is important. You know, Njegos said, "As soon as the hump is born, time doesn't correct." If you turn your back on this institution, which is very important, many Western countries have it, for years and years we won't be able to address the shortcomings that are created with its creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21696	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21697	The Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have been injured. 106th and 107th. Since 20 minutes of exposure, I don't think there's even been three minutes of the subject we're talking about. I don't know, and I don't understand, I'd like you to explain to me what kind of connections you have, as president of the National Assembly, with the National Academy. Those 255 minutes the previous speaker was talking about... It was one great session, everything was elaborated, everything was fine, and I don't know what it has to do with today's session of the agenda. I thought the previous speaker, or professor, would be focused on very important topics of the agenda, and as for time and lack of time, gentlemen, you will win the election, so you will have four hours, three hours, five hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21698	I agree with you, but I didn't want to react. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21699	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have an old problem over and over again, four important laws need to be discussed together, and this fourth one that's most common I won't even get to mention today, and I'd like to talk about it, because behind it is Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. I have to go in turn, I have to go from Žarko Ružić, so on, Branko Ružić. You keep changing names, so you can't get by. You see, this is where an institution is proposed that no one needs alive. National, listen "National", so you didn't even call the government national, you didn't call the ministries, the ministry should call "the sheep-cutting ministry". We haven't called anything national yet, but the National Academy of Public Administration. You gave her more ingenuity than the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. When it comes to the National Academy, I immediately remember the National Savings Bank. These were two pretty cheating institutions, with a large amount of money stolen from the Serbian state through the National Savings Bank. This isn't a plan to steal money, it's an enormous expansion of the state administration, because our government is overbooked. That's what your friends from the EU tell you. You don't need me to warn you, and this is how you spread it, and no one alive knows how much you're spreading it. This is a bottomless hole. If we go into this, we fall into the abyss. What's the problem with our administration? Overbooking, I said, is a low level of expertise and small wages, and while we have these miniature salaries in the state administration, except for some authorities that have jumped out of control, so they throw their salaries, such as the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Flight Control to various protectors, etc. Salaries suck, including ministers. How come some flight control director there has seven times as much salary as a minister? You solve the problem first where it hurts the most. Solve the problem of expertise and competence. And the Socialists crushed a lot of government officials. And they were always on minimum wage, so if anyone had the privilege of adding some fee to him on the side. Then the dosmanias came and hired all those street noises. What were they expert on? It's for hitting the sherpa. Whoever stood out by hitting the sherpa got a government job without having any expertise. Now you've rebooked the state administration with a huge number of employees, and the state administration is unable to function. A parallel process should be implemented to protect the calling of a civil servant. In every civilised country in the world, respect is expressed for the calling of a civil servant, and with us, the civil servant is the last hole in the play. When a civil servant appears, then there's a premise that he knows, that he's competent, that he's capable, that he's honorable, and that he's invulnerable. Now, let's find you in the general structure of the state government how many unsuspecting civil servants we have. Most of them are the ones who don't depend on anything, who don't ask questions, and even they promise to finish a job, ask for money in advance, so if the job and the end of it is his success, and if it doesn't end, I tried everything, it didn't work. It's our condition, and you want to change that state to the National Academy, to bring Peru, Mika, Zika, etc., that they teach lectures, and as civil servants to listen, they'll learn something from these lectures. They won't learn anything, like I do when I listen to the ministers here in the O.R., so my thoughts are drifting away from Kosovo Field and beyond, because I know I won't hear anything smart. That's how you'll be at the National Academy. You're saying the National Academy has the status of a publicly recognised organizer of the activities of informal adult education. If it's an informal education, how are you going to get someone to attend that Academy class? You must have some form. A diploma must be acquired there. That diploma must have some value in society and in the state administration. The headquarters will be in Belgrade, right? Will we be bringing to Belgrade from all municipalities in Serbia municipal officials to go to school in Belgrade over the weekend, or will they be given paid leave per month, two days, and interrogated, so if they learned something to return, and if they didn't learn anything, what would usually happen, to start over? One of our problems with the state administration is that no one reads anything. I put my head on the board of directors in the Serbian government more than half of them read nothing, except maybe the agenda for the session, some material, etc. They don't read books. They don't read any literature, they don't read any professional literature. What does our administration need? That public officials begin to read, so that instead of the National Academy, they are formed a valuable, good, professional magazine, and that the journal publishes the works of our experts with direct orientations on how to deal with what problem, which appears in society, and translate foreign literature, valuable texts, and thus train people from public administration. The one who doesn't know, who doesn't have a brain, who graduates from college or high school gets over a relationship, he's easily recognized. If he is recognized and his decision in the administrative dispute is lifted more than 10%, if he loses in court, then what more does he have to look for in the public administration? Furthermore, if our students from college and high schools do not have enough knowledge about public administration, we have at law school a "Governmental Law" subject which is taught in all directions. I'm basically against directions, especially in social science colleges. One direction - general education. Then we will divide this item, such as "Citizen's Law" divided into real, i.e. property and bonds and procedurally. We can divide the administrative right into three subjects and study more intensively and in more detail. There is a "Government Science" which is now just an optional group, what is it, in one of the directions. From this "The Science of Administration" there are huge literature in Serbian as well. Who read that? Who read that from the ministers? Who among those who became ministers before that knew what public administration was, that the minister was the highest authority of state administration and that he must know both the administrative process and the administrative dispute. A little bit that and when someone brings him something on his signature, he signs it. When he signs the pain big, the fuss, but he doesn't care. What would be the tasks of this National Academy? Article 4 provides that it shall carry out the professional and related executive and other tasks of the state administration. It's a new government body. You're introducing a new government body to a small door. The body will operate. He'll have some jurisdiction. Then what are you putting the director in charge? Put the minister on. It could also be the directorate's office. You've already predicted yourself there that this program council is appointed by the director, not someone who would control the director through that council. And who would control the director, that would be the Ministry of Ruzic, right? Is it? Are you Rose? But would you be able to control it is another question. Do you have any expert organs capable of controlling it, do you have any civil servants who would know how to control this? Or they'd sell us some kidney stuff there and whoever got by, got by, didn't get by, didn't get by. How many will be employed at the National Academy? It'll start at a hundred, then a thousand, then five thousand, then ten thousand, then 100 thousand. All that can be done, this national academy can replace the entire state administration, and this doesn't feel like we have a capable state administration we won't have then. The state administration consists of staff, not institutions. You can have whatever institutions you want, whatever institutions you declare, if you don't have personnel in them, it's not worth it. The staff gets knowledge in college, and you keep receiving those who graduate from college with an average of six, and then you send them to the National Academy. Let's get them further perfected there. And let them, on average, eight, nine, wait at the Employment Service. Let it continue to be a job in the state service reward for successful pre-election activities, control of polling stations, control on behalf of its party, and on behalf of other parties, when the controllers are bribed. That's it. There are countries in the world where the apparatus is so serious that it conducts elections, and it doesn't need any control and everyone believes that it will be done honestly, so it's not a party state apparatus, it's not a civil apparatus party and mostly party, it's made up of respectable and honorable people. That's the kind of thing judges should be to us. And here we choose judges with six averages, and then we wonder that there is no independence of the judiciary. Because none of them know what legal ethics is. Our clerk doesn't know what's legal or what's civil ethic, he didn't have anyone to teach them. Ethics at the Faculty of Law, I mean in Serbia no one has, but they have some fictional items that the reforms are taking. They've been invented for the sake of already existing personnel, and they're not humanely adapted to the curricula and the program. And in high schools, you know, you fix the first material status of a professor, so you're interested in the best students when they graduate from college to be high school teachers, you get your reputation back to that profession, so you'll have a lot better staff. And now you're gonna fix this academy what high school didn't even give, which he didn't even give to college. You can't, you can never fix it. This is just gonna be a distraction. See what the programme council would do, a proposal for a general decision-making programme and a training programme for managers, sets out the methodology for the need for professional training. The methodology of the need determines, and who will do the research to show how many needs? Have we ever had a model of the official structure of the local self-government unit, which will depend on the number of inhabitants, the size of the territory, the degree of economic development, etc? We never had that. That's what no one dares to try to do, and they'll create a methodology. You can't create a methodology from a vacuum, from nothing. Methodology must be based on some objective facts, based on a system already known, to explore what is unknown. There should be new indicators, so by checking the indicator for new knowledge, new facts. Who's gonna do it there? Nobody. There's no one there to do that. All the ministers to put into the program council are unable to do the job. Come on, encourage scientific research projects at the university to create that problem. If you're not able to pass the pay grade law for five years, you don't hire someone who knows. It didn't occur to you, but you don't know. And when the pay grade is introduced, half the problem is solved. Then the flight control director can't have 700,000 salaries, and the flight controller can have 800,000, because it's not the same as being flight controller and flying control director. The Director of Flight Control as a civil servant must have no higher salary than any minister, but an expert of extra class, what kind of flight controller can have towards the European average, so that he does not go after bread with his belly, so that he does not go to work where wages are higher. Everything's wrong with us. That's where the maid has a higher salary than the minister. In the People's Bank, what they do, what they think of, because they have extra money. How do they get extra money? It's a primary show. They give the banks interest and not only meet their needs, they flaunt. They even introduced gynaecological tests. Any ministry could introduce gynaecological checks and be regular. Everyone has one office in their building. You know, we're facing so many nebuloses, with so many unreasonable phenomena, and I keep asking myself a question -- how long can it take? Apparently, it can last until we get some capable Serbian government. Are we able to reach her? Depends on the citizens. Let's convince the citizens, we haven't been able to convince them yet. You see one more thing, the next law being discussed here is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants. This law means adapting the law on the national academy. There is a general training programme, training programmes for managers, etc. And I've told you before, there's no training without reading books. Professional training is a lifelong training or that you used the term the other day, translating from English, life-long. You, when you translate laws that dictate to us from the EU, in English, don't worry about translation. We often don't even have a lecturer in the government. Neither did the socialists, let alone the dosmania, nor did you. You all think you know the language, you don't know. Even if I were to get into the language structure analysis now, what would it all be like? Don't do that, pull this law nicely. Say you've accepted well-intentioned criticism. Every criticism I have here is truly well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21700	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21701	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, here at the end of yesterday's second day in the Assembly, when we listened to two ministers, the explanation of two draft laws, and today during this debate, I failed to understand how these four laws are connected, and the solutions in them are such that they can be discussed together. Of course, that is not the case, they have nothing to do with each other, but it was necessary to shorten the time of the debate in parliament, to prevent MPs from saying what they consider necessary to say about these four laws. This continues a bad practice, and it is obvious that even these laws will not change that practice, although it is in the media, and well Minister Ruzic noticed it, there was an announcement that this law on the National Academy of Public Administration, that it will include the education of officials, he made it clear that this is not the case. But I think it's necessary. If we look at Parliament's president's behaviour, which has lashed out at the Secretary of Parliament and kicked out, or one of the mayors of Subotica, who threatens his associate with the throats, the question is whether they need training and education in order to be kind, because kindness is one of the objectives of the minister, when he stated why the National Academy of Public Administration is needed, he cited kindness as one of the goals. I think we need that kindness from the highest officials and I think it's a shame that they won't be in these training and education programs, or at least couching, if anything, to avoid these situations in the future. Minister Ljajic concluded the discussion last night, and I was pleased with the adoption of laws on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business, because it is good for our economy, for citizens, to slowly catch up with new technologies. I think it's a little excessive to say that a revolutionary service that, if adopted by this law, the service of a qualified electronic signature is to be introduced. Revolutionally, it means something for the first time, never seen, maybe not in our country, some other things have never been seen in our history until now, unrelated to this thing. But I think there are a lot of countries that have gone a long way in these services, and what's the good side of this delay that we can pick up all the good experiences and say, at a higher speed, catch up faster and reduce that lag behind. What scared me at the end of his exposure, when he said they would be conducted, let me say, tenders for the selection of service providers in this electronic intervention. There is, I must admit, fear has caught me. I was afraid of knowing how this government has been working for five years. Which people will do and how to get the opportunity to provide services in such an important and sensitive thing, to have access to citizens' data. Imagine, we've got prominent citizens today, who couldn't keep their ID card, someone told them to take their ID card, so he opened up companies in their name. Now imagine an electronic signature. How can someone come into possession of someone else's electronic signature and, say, start a company again, take a loan, charge millions, then say, it wasn't me, steal me. How will we ministers, knowing this government, its capacities, its way of working, prevent it? That's my big fear. Two, one example, in a world of what happens when you let a private firm be, say, a provider of some service. I don't know if you followed before, I think two or three months ago, there was a scandal in Sweden. The company that was doing services there for the Swedish Ministry of Defence changed its owner, the owner then outsourced some jobs, and then people from Serbia came up with data, sensitive, protected data related to the Swedish Ministry of Defence, pilot names, military forces. Huge data was in the hands of unauthorized persons, right in Serbia, by chance. What was the epilogue of that? The epilogue was the resignation of the Secretary of Defense. Now, Minister Ljajic, are you prepared by adopting this law to put yourself in a position to resign? You, with the longest ministerial internship in Serbia, can't imagine resigning. I hope you're aware of the risks you're taking, the model where these services will be provided through various tenders, accreditation, whatever, to private companies, because there are some things going on, like this happened in Sweden. They've certainly had a system there for many years than we have in this electronic business, electronic signatures, and everything else, so these things happened. So, be careful in the future, and pay attention to how this law applies, so you don't get into a situation where someone says you should resign. Now, let's get back to this first law on the National Academy of Public Administration. To me, reading this law and listening to this debate so far, it's completely unclear why this pretentious name -- the National Academy of Public Administration. A man would expect it now to form an important institution, education hundreds and hundreds of personnel. This is a practical, renaming of the administration to a single government body that could be called a body for accreditation of training instructors, for creating programs. The name of the National Academy is, in my opinion, completely inappropriate, about what this law adopts and which newspaper it introduces. By reading this law, I've had this light all the time, just like this New Year's lighting in Belgrade, right in front of my eyes, NAED, NAED. So, by reading this law, you can see that this law is written outside the government. I believe Minister, you've been here since the end of June, as long as it is, four months, three months, that this law was written before you came to the ministry or perhaps later. Why am I saying this? I'm used to reading these parts of the bill's reasoning, so I've established that the government has a time machine. Here's the evidence again. The Law on civil servants states that the working version of the law was given to the public on 12 December 2017, meaning only two months from now. So I'm saying that there's a time machine in the government, you go into the future and you give the law for two months in public debate. Of course it's the Minister's mistake and of course, I also welcome the intention of training people who work in ministries to reduce these mistakes, so that they don't have this kind of debate in parliament, but it's unusual to read something like this. Take the bills, because you're responsible for the entire text of this law and that part of the reasoning and everything else that it says. There are other interesting things written there. It says here, I was wondering how much this is gonna cost? It says that the expenditure for 2018 for the National Academy will be 31 million dinars for 30 employees. Then, five million dinars for compensation from members of the Programme Council and professional bodies, which should be up to ten and have those professional bodies between three and five members. So all these people, 30 to 50, plus 15 members of the Programme Council, are appointed by one man, director of the National Academy, for whom I must agree with my colleague Pavlovic, the law does not stand in what way to choose. You said he'd be appointed by the government for five years, by some other law probably, but here in the law doesn't stand. So, this man, one person, for 50, 70 or 65 people, will determine to be members of the Programme Council indefinitely. What's our big problem, is that the members of the Programme Council don't have the duration of the term of office. They don't say how much they choose, they're just said to be chosen and resolved by the director, but we don't know how much. Is that life? And these 50 people in the permanent bodies, all those people will spend in 2018, so it's announced here, we'll see when the budget comes, five million dinars. Then 11 million dinars are scheduled for all training programmes. Imagine, it means training 200 and I don't know how many thousands of people, how long it takes this law to open up the possibility, of course not everybody in one year will go through education and all that. So, you've predicted 11 million just for the compensation of these fifty people you name exclusively, I repeat, director, without clear criteria, without criteria, let's say, who proposes these civil servants in council members. Who is proposing, how will he choose from tens and tens of thousands of people in the state administration who meet the legal requirements, how will he get to these seven people who are supposed to be? In our opinion, it's a place for corruption, a place for political influence. The assessment that this reduces the political impact on the work of the administration here falls. So this particular person has a huge impact on 50 people and some people to ensure that they receive five million dinars in the coming years. Then, the biggest item for the introduction of this National Academy is a million and a half euros, according to here and 186 million dinars for room equipment. So, ten-year work cost of the National Academy and more, 12 years of planned funding for the work of members of councils and committees and professional bodies and for all programmes, times 12, this amount is for the equipment of rooms. Does this country really not have enough free space for 30 people to count this National Academy somewhere? We already have a million-figured body for the former president of the Republic, so he can run some co-operation committee in Russia and China. Millions from the budget go for it. Now again, 186 million dinars! Do I have to say now how many schools, kindergartens, roads or do I not know what? How does this fit the policy of savings and rationalisation? The law on the National Academy and on civil servants predicts, according to us, a completely undefined collection and processing of the data of those who go through this process. We asked to delete it or to emulate it with the law, to necessarily insert all these records, especially processing, because it does not speak in the law for the purpose of this processing, which the data is processed, to introduce it in accordance with the Personal Data Processing Act. What I want to say about this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants is ultimately, let's say, a deadline that says that so far the people who have done these trainings can continue to do this work within three years. So, we have a law here that, if we're reading, we're just about to start a public debate in two months, and it started ten months ago, it was done and brought to the Assembly by emergency procedure. So, we're passing the law by emergency procedure, and then we're giving a three-year deadline for those people who need to do these accreditations of the characters to go through the accreditation process again in accordance with the new law. Absolutely inappropriate and inexplicable. What's the rush, what's the emergency procedure, if you're giving yourself this three-year law to proceed with the full application of this law? I call upon you to accept our amendment that shortens that deadline to one real deadline, out there sometime by the end of June of next year. All these laws come from good intentions and needs, of course, states to improve the work of public administration, to have better qualified, more professional, more engaged and more polite civil servants. Of course, none of this is controversial. But, always, to put it that way, the devil hides himself in detail. These solutions absolutely do not guarantee department. On the contrary, it screams out of them that this will be used as another mechanism for party people to push forward, and those who are not in ruling parties and do not work in the administration thanks to membership in political organisations, regardless of their expertise, will be terminated. I repeat, the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services is good and I am sure it will facilitate citizens' access to state services, make it easier and cheaper for business, but there is a concern about what it will look like in real life. The current Prime Minister, a year ago when she was a minister, was proud to announce, an example of how she is doing electronic business or electronic services by the state of Serbia, as a reaction from the state to the crowds in the production of new health books, that citizens can sign up and receive health books within 60 days of the application. I did it for my mother-in-law and she got a health book after 10 months. So, not 60 days, not six months, but in 10 months, a few days ago. How do you think with this kind of work and examples to convince citizens that it is for their benefit to introduce these new services and electronic administrations? Not to say what some colleagues have been saying, about the way the President of Parliament here uses the electronic administration that we have here in Parliament's work and which should help all MPs to work more qualified and transparently. Because of all this, because of our mistrust in this government, we will not vote for these laws. We've given, hopefully, constructive amendments and we'll discuss them in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21702	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21703	Only very briefly on the four remarks you made regarding the Law on Electronic Business. The first thing concerns the word revolutionary, and I agree with you that it is pretentious, but I have not used it by comparing our case with any EU country, because that is, we are far from it yet. I've used the word revolutionaryly in relation to the situation we've had so far, and I've been talking about difficulties to activate the electronic signature because of the complicated procedure that was foreseen by the current e-signature law, but I agree, it's pretentious. Another thing, the tender. I didn't mention the word tender. Take a stenogram, if I mention the word tender I publicly apologize to you, but I absolutely didn't mention it, not because I'm avoiding it, but because there's no room for any tenders in the bill or they're talking about it. I was just talking about service providers who have to go through, literally, sieve and settle to be registered. The ministry's role is only to set standards and end the process to register service providers. Everything else is done by the accreditation body of Serbia or by bodies for compliance with regulations that are once again economic operators. We now have six certification bodies to issue an electronic signature, of those six two are private companies that work. Believe me, I don't even know the names of those companies, but they're going through the procedure that is necessary and that will apply to everyone else. I was talking about control that's been going on for at least two years. The third thing, about information security, therefore, is part of what you mentioned in the Swedish case, as well as issues and laws on information security. We are changing this law in this one article where, too, clearly defined the competences of individual authorities, and in this law, we have damage insurance. As there is no perfect crime, there is no perfect protection against abuse. No one can guarantee that you or I won't steal a cell phone, but this is the maximum form of protection that can be given, and the maximum reduced possibility of counterfeiting. It will be easier, far away, forger you or try to forge someone's signature or seal than you can abuse the provisions of this law regarding electronic signature and all these other services. As for application, I said in the final word that the problem would exist about application and implementation, no dilemma. We already see in advance what the obstacles are. After all, it is not the same level of digital literacy in each part of the country, nor is it the same use, or the same use, of the Internet again in different parts of Serbia. It will all be obstacles, and not just that, which stand in the way of full implementation of this law. But I will agree with you, one great opportunity that is being provided, but that possibility should be realised in one process. It won't go easy or fast.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21704	Thank you, Minister. The word has a folk emissary, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go, pal. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21705	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, ministers with co-workers and fellow MPs, the draft laws on the agenda today are the result of the thorough work of the Resolute Ministries to further improve and raise the quality of services to citizens and economic operators, and just as such will have the support of the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the day to vote. As far as the National Academy Bill proposal, from your address yesterday, Mr. Ruzic, was under the impression that your ministry is putting an emphasis on introducing order in the administration and ensuring that the public administration's impact is better and that is certainly a good signal to all local self-governments that they must function in the same way, in the same deadlines and in the same legal basis. The establishment of the National Academy of Public Administration is about to make it possible. There are employees in local self-government who do not see the importance of their role and their job engagement, which is due to indolence, indifference, and often because of lack of knowledge, and that they have the same or equal remuneration with those who give their maximum. This bill will refer such employees to professional training and education and at the same time make a difference between work and work. As a roof educational institution, the National Academy of Public Administration will play a key role in planning and selecting staff, rewarding systems and efficiency in professional provision of services to citizens. The aim of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is an efficient public administration system, and therefore public trained civil servants are needed. I believe that, and I believe that the bill will now contribute to the achievement of that objective. The Ministry of Local Self-Government is on track to transform local self-government into modern, economical and responsible. However, there is a major problem, the number of problems in the work of local self-government due to the lack of training and compliance of employees with modern business methods brought about by day-to-day modernisation, but the Law on the National Public Administration Academy contributes to their education and thus reduce the costs that would additionally burden the local budget. The Law on the National Academy of Public Administration is closely linked to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants that will enable its implementation and define the programme itself and the work of the National Academy. In Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants, Article 97g refers to lecturers at the National Academy and each one is guided, and will ensure that these lecturers are affirmative and professional, but I am an opinion, Mr Ružić, so that as lecturers they can also include employees of local self-governments who have proven themselves at their jobs because they are the best known problems in the work of public administrations. MEPs of the United Serbia Group have tabled one amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law amending Article 97v of point 1 relating to the training programme of the manager. We believe that in a sentence – that those who prepare to be executives also go to training, there is room for favoring a certain part of the civil servants, because they cannot know in advance that they will be appointed to the executive jobs. I'll talk more about the amendment the day we discuss the law in detail. The Information Security Act brings us an amendment to one member, but I want to take this opportunity and draw attention to how important the information security of a country is, especially in today's globally challenging time. With a challenge, first of all, in terms of security, and information security is deeply permeated with all terrorist attacks. We're witnessing such attacks, maltenes, everyday. Here, the other day, there was one in America where more than 50 people died. Fortunately, in Serbia, we still do not have that kind of violence, but we certainly do worry about security in the region and in the world, because the risk always exists and we simply have to be prepared. Serbia has an information security development strategy, thus confirming the state's readiness to face a global data protection challenge. For me as a folk MP, but first of all, as a parent, it is very important that the strategic plan is to provide advice and applications regarding the safety of children on the Internet. This topic should raise awareness primarily of parents and children themselves, but include as many schools and teaching staff as possible through various school programmes. The proposal for a law on electronic documents and business is the basis for establishing a modern e-Government in the Republic of Serbia that will provide citizens and businesses with faster and more efficient services. The effectiveness of this bill will be reflected in the savings of time, the reduction of operating costs, the exclusion of going to the counters. In our country, the use of electronic documents still causes mistrust in the majority of the population and is increasingly believed in paper documents, so we must work to raise awareness of both citizens and officials. As I said at the very beginning, these laws are the result of modernization and improvement of work from civil servants, local self-government, to the ministries themselves, and in the day for voting will have the support of the JS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21706	Thank you, colleague Yevdzic. The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers, if we could approach this debate in a simplified way, because unfortunately, otherwise, it's the manner of this government to simplify things, I guess it's easier to say that the ministers who came before us today could be quite relaxed, because what someone would have against professional training of civil servants and their professionalization, as well as, of course, electronic business, which is simply inevitable in the 21st century. However, if we approach the debate in a more serious way, if we look a little bit at the broader aspect of the need for public administration reform, which usually comes down to phrases, we will agree both in campaigns and later in the work of the state or government. So, the key problems of public administration reform are organisations first, a good organisation. Secondly, it is the coordination of state authorities. You know for a fact, and I'm sure you'll agree with me that there are quite a lot of noises in this regard, so there's no good coordination between different bodies and services. Furthermore, it is so many times mentioned party employment, and corruption, and nepotism, so if you want some services are also quite expensive in comparison, especially with the standard of citizens. Yesterday I listened carefully, in fact last night, to the presentation of ministers and Mr. Ruzic said at one point that this topic might not be so interesting from a political point of view, that it would be exploited for some achievement or achievement of day-to-day political points. I think the opposite, and that's where you look at this attitude towards public administration reform, because what's more important is that you have satisfied citizens, for whom the state services and authorities are doing services and jobs on their behalf and for their account. Isn't that one of the biggest challenges for the state, one of the key roles to show its ability, organisation, arrangement, responsibility and to get satisfied citizens. Secondly, one of the key topics is the National Academy and Mr. Ruzic also mentioned that the academy is already preparing, that the idea of its organisation has existed for 15 years. Minister, have you given any thought to the fact that in those 15 years, you've been run over by time? Now in trend, there is, of course, that there are in other countries of that academy, and it works, but more and more online training is being used, and even in combination with some existing solutions, staffing services, especially, taking care of costs, I think you've been run over by time and asking questions. What else is one of the pains of our politics and our country? We never have enough analysis, we never get enough priorities. For example, why did we not get into this reasoning that otherwise contains more phrases, the necessity of professional training as if someone might have something against it. Why didn't we have an analysis of how much engagement would be, as one of the possible solutions of foreign agencies or public private partnership, simply to have data. This may be the best solution, but we don't have that data. On the other hand, you will say there is a national strategy for reforming the public administration that was adopted for the period from 2015 to 2017. According to the 2015 Annual Report on the Implementation of the Action Plan for Public Administration Reform, it says on the State and local self-government site, that since the planned 107 activities in 2015, 40 have been fully implemented, in part 23 activities have been implemented, and have not been realised at all 44. There's more unrealizing than the ones that have been realized, and plus you have this part that's only partially realised. Isn't the question then, shouldn't the Government's professional training, when it's such a bad result when it's only 35% of the activities realised and at that most of the activity actually comes down to your Ministry, Mr. Ruzic? Look now, this is the end of 2017, there is no report at all for 2016. So either the results are bad, so they're not published, but there's no transparency, and that's where you'll agree. When we talk about problems in the public administration, as I mentioned, coordination and organisations and this party employment, corruption, there are a number of others, it is also the number of employees. We have reduced it to some extent, since the average in Europe is 8.5, and with us it is 6.4 and often exaggerates, this problem is the number of employees. There's a question and structures of employees. For example, in Sandzak, the question arises why no police chief, the president of the court is not Bosniak and how they will feel Serbia as their country. In general, when you do, that structure of public administration in Sandzak doesn't correspond to the national structure, and we always talk about it. We think that's one of the problems. It's not just professional training. It is a very wide range of needs for this public administration to function better and more efficiently. There is also a question of these staff solutions. The last decision made by the government was last week, you were present, both ministers, at the cabinet's session and made a decision to appoint Milovan Bojic as the head of the Cardiovascular Disease Centre in Dedinj. Look, this man was in the last century, in 1995, and now after a quarter of a century, you come here before us and tell us about e-business, professional training. That's nice, who's gonna be against it? But look in that broader context. Look at how much that's essentially, the easiest thing to say is irresponsible. You're still asking questions, you've got some services, say, that Anti-Corruption Agency. According to the report this year, in April 2017, it had neither had nor had these officials applied for the availability of classified information. It's an abuse and a felony. But you're probably on your way, too. The Anti-Corruption Agency has made one analysis of these laws and I assume that you have received some of these remarks as well. They particularly voice doubts about the degree of corruption that can be opened when these laws apply on the National Academy and amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants. For example, Article 3 says that there are insufficient provisions to monitor the work of the academy, that they are not precise enough. In Article 4, the question really arises, the National Academy is also authorized for commercial affairs, and that is where the question - what are the jobs, and indeed the possibility of abuse is opened. Article 8 does not contain at all any provisions on the procedure for designation, discharge or the mandate itself, as long as the mandate of those members of the Programme Council is in the first place. The number of members of the permanent programming committees has not been established in Article 9. That's, you'll agree, quite a bit of a flaw. I'm saying the National Academy sounds good, but basically I don't think it means much, and it's even less promising somewhere. As far as these e-business laws are concerned, of course, in an era where technology and business itself are changing at the speed of light, of course these solutions that are both European and civilizational standards are welcome, but they are really justifiably asking that question, is it really necessary for three years to produce these sublegal acts? Of course everything can't be covered by the law. It's clear to everyone. But that deadline is kind of unreasonablely long. Because I'm saying, we really live in an absolutely informative world. Here, Minister of Trade and Telecommunications, let's say, one of the examples, is a purely small display, I don't know if you've seen it, and you'll find it interesting, let's say the Amazon is already opening up in the U.S. self-service shops, where you do all the shopping just by entering the store by identifying yourself by cell phone, just dragging through, and then it's all automatically downloaded. Of course, it's science fiction for us and I don't want at all, nor can we compare ourselves to such achievements. But I'm saying, then that three-year term in such an era is just kind of irrational. Secondly, the question and price of services is raised, especially considering that the state is not strong enough to protect consumers, because, let's say, mobile telephony is much more expensive than it is in Western Europe. We ourselves know that these services that will be able to pass, to archive, to check electronic signatures, electronic stamps, documents, that it will be a small number, and I'm afraid these prices will be quite high and that it will sort of burden additionally. Although, of course, I agree that's the need. I'm just saying that it should be taken care of in that direction, and especially given that many companies have already paid for electronic identification and readers, so they might use a regular internet, yachts, emails at first. Of course, the key problem for applying these laws, one of the more important, is this security, how will we protect ourselves from, for example, secret services, which are not still reformed in this country and not controlled enough? So we can expect to get some data in the media, some personal or business, not to say it's already today. This way only increases the risk and this says how serious it is and how inapplicable it is if other spheres of society do not follow, are not modernised, are not reformed in the spirit of time. And that will be the basic problem. Otherwise, of course we support modernization and electronic business and we're even sorry that it's late, but we don't have any of that lamentation right now. It's important that they came to the agenda, though you'll also agree with me, that we're quite late. In the end, let me get this straight. If we ask the citizens if they are satisfied with the functioning of the public administration, whether they are satisfied with the services and jobs that public services and authorities perform on their behalf and for their account, as I said, we will all agree that they are not. And they're just mythic stories about dysfunction, about problems, and we have to get out of it sometime. On the other hand, it is and should be one of the key challenges of the state, where it will show its competence and where it will receive citizens' satisfaction in return. So, the laws are, once again, welcome, introduce some newspapers, some good solutions, but there are a lot of provisions that are disputable, which are not precise enough and I hope that this will be corrected, which with amendments, MPs from my parliamentary group have also submitted several amendments, and that you will correct that by sublegal acts. I hope so, because it's in favor of all of us, that it all works in the best way possible, though I doubt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21708	Thank you, colleague Micic. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21709	The deadline for bringing these 17 sublegislative acts is not three years but 12 months. It's in the bill. There was a proposal, first of all from NAEDA and some others who participated in the public debate, to make it six months. But it was simply unrealistic and I spoke in principle yesterday in this debate that the European Union did not bring all the sublaws either. So we're going to accept one amendment, that we have basically three levels of adoption of these sublegal acts. Or three deadlines for the adoption of these sublegal acts. One will be delivered within six months, for those we are ready to bring at the moment, the other group will be within 12 months and a third group, those we are waiting to actually bring the European Union, will be within 18 months. But there's really no mention of a three-year term anywhere. As for the price of services, yes, you're right, with us not being able to influence it. It's like any other commodity, the market determines that price. There's going to be a problem at first, you've seen it quite well, because the question is how many service providers will report. It is our interest to have as many as possible, because we automatically count that the price will be lower in that competition. As for the risk, like any advance in technology that brings incredible good to humanity, but also increases the security risks, and here is the situation, it's absolutely the same. This is a great benefit and a great opportunity to be provided, and we are trying to minimise these risks. Therefore, procedures have been defined to protect against these risks, i.e. to prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21710	Thank you, Minister. The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, an authorised representative of the SRS, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21711	Thank you. Mrs. Natasa Micic used the first part of her debate to make political views, which is absolutely legitimate and what needs to be done in the National Assembly, but it seems to me she's mixed up some pots. She spoke like this – ministers talk about the introduction of digitisation, and you appoint Professor Milovan Bojic as director of the "Dedinje" clinic, and he is from the last century. This is just amazing. Professor Milovan Bojic is from the last century, as well as Mrs Micic, and he is an expert and has formed from the end of the last century and made a European and world-renowned institute. It is absolutely certain that in the next term they will do so in an even better way and that the name of this clinic will again be recognizable throughout the world and in Europe. Mrs. Micic also spoke about setting up personnel in the Raska area. She said that citizens living in the Raski area, due to poor government policy, have no reason or wonder where their reason for treating Serbia as their country. This was really inadmissible. She can think ill of the government's work, we think ill of the government's work, but we also think that every citizen living in Serbia is aware that Serbia is his country. So the fact that someone is representing himself as some kind of Democratic, Liberal, etc., essentially seems very different and should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21712	National MP Natasa Micic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21713	I'm advertising Article 27, Mr. Chairman. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, because I don't see what basis you gave Mrs. Verity the right to the replica. First of all, he's not even an authorised representative. Second, I don't understand, Milovan Bojic is not a national MP? In fact, she caught herself and proved to be involved in some party and political employment, and so did you. I'm not against someone who was from the last century, who was in 1995, but, I say, when we talk about modernization, after 25 years of putting someone who was a manager, it's really amazing, and it's a much bigger problem that he abused. Debts that are... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21714	Mrs. Micic, you're replicating now. You had the right to injure the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. You gave the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21715	Why don't you give me your word now? Act on the same arches.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21716	You didn't ask. You can't do that. You can't play. You asked for it, I appreciated it. You've advertised Article 27. I don't think I've broken Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I gave Verethi the word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with Article 104 in the context of the mentioned, not only SRS officials, but the SRS as a whole. In the end, I have a discretionary right to give a replica. Do you want, Mrs. Micic, the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the injury? (Natasa Micic: Yes. ) The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Rade, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21717	In fact, you explained in part, and I just wanted to say that I answered, and I got the word based on Article 104, paragraph 2. Professor Milovan Bojic is a member and official of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21718	Mrs. Radeta, I apologize. Now you're replicating, too? (Miss Radeta: No.) Just point out where I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21719	I do not rephrase, but I explain that point 2 is said: "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party". I'm an authorised representative on this agenda point. Professor Bojic is a member of the political party of the SRS, which we both belong to. She was insulting to him, because if someone was an expert in the last century, he must have been perfecting himself all these years, and he wasn't doing some kind of parallel science and some kind of European science, like some people who show up here trying to make an impression? So, I completely legitimately answered, legitimately got the word. Here, I support you, you have not injured Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21720	Thank you. So you don't want the National Assembly to plead? (Miss Radeta: No.) ) Let me just say, for all of us here, that the Radeta lady is at this session an authorised representative of the SRS, so I didn't make a mistake. Thank you. We don't want any more talk about Mr. Milovan Boyic. I think we've cleared it up. The word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic): How is she an authorised representative, and Mr. Seselj is there? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Seselj is not currently in the O.R., so the Verse of Radeta has every right to speak on behalf of the SRS. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I've already given my word. Please, the word has been made by Parliamentarian Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21721	Here, I will be parliamentary to my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's People's Parliament, but my time is running out, and we need to talk, because it is a rare opportunity for us to have distinguished guests of the Ministers and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So I, like my colleagues, am interested in a lot of things. I hope they'll be kind and willing to respond to the ministers, since they're in that vault where from their associates they can give us a lot of information. I'd start with facts, numbers. Here on the agenda we have laws relating to public administration and relating to the laws on security of information, the electronic document, electronic business, but all of this could be summed up by a concept that is in front of Serbia, which is the future of e-government or so on. digitisation, which was one of the key words of Prime Minister, or Prime Minister Brnabic. I would like to say that the government, what has been announced to the public, has made a decision on the maximum number of employees in the state administration. So that's the public service. They're not just civil servants on the republican, regional and local level. The number that's in circulation, when you count yourself, is about 450 thousand people who are employed. The exact number is 451.433 people who are employed indefinitely. What we always say in this transition process, in our case, transition cannot end, is that these are among the lowest standards in Europe, in the sense that there are not enough employees. If you take the number of employees compared to 100 people, it is said that the European average is 8.5%, it is 6.4% in Serbia. So, although a decision on the maximum number is made, there is more space and that is what Minister Ruzic will understand, as he was also in the position of European Integration Minister, when he read the European Parliament resolutions, the European Commission's reports, there is always stressed that there is not enough political commitment in Serbia to reform public administration. We want to be blessed, so we believe that this is now possible, that the future is ahead of us, although we are coughing for the world. We as a parliamentary group, and we have talked to each other on the basis of discussions of other MPs from other MPs' groups, we see enough signs of doubt that the National Academy, as it is imagined in the Bill's proposal, will, frankly, live and be able to employ this process of lifelong education, professional training, building up skills and experience precisely because of that number. The problem's in the selection. Not enough is said in the opening statement of the minister. There is time to explain this when considering the amendments. How will the selection take place in a part-declar state? Why do I say "partocratic state"? Because I don't attribute it to any political party. I attribute to all those political parties that were in power, because if we have an insight back a few months, which warns, these are data from the Transparency of Serbia, that they are in V.D. a state in the "Official Messenger" non-stop over 300 people. It's a V.D. extension. the situation, whether for the first time employees of them are over 200 to six months, for the first time engaged and others, that they have been extended, since this public competition has not been conducted for another three months, means six plus three and it is infinitely v.d. The situation gives reason to say that the whole state of Serbia, which is our task, both opposition and ruling parties, is to build a state, to feel the party's strength and seriousness that it is continued in some V.D. condition. As the National Academy is imagined, it has already been warned by fellow Djurisic, the money, the money that has been defined, because here when we talk, we are citizens' representatives, taxpayers' representatives, and we should ask the Minister to explain the way in which it has been defined that salaries and social contributions of employees are given three times as much money as for the implementation of the programme in Budget 2018. We should also explain on what the million-and-a-half-euro figure was based on that will be intended for the building, so to speak, not people. The Republic Property Agency has enough of that unused space. Do you really intend to build? This is about technical documentation. Are you going to build a new building? I will also agree with Mr. Seselj, a colleague, although we do not agree often, but with all due respect – did you intend to do so in Belgrade? Is Belgrade the centre of Serbia? Let's look back at the two-century tradition of building a state. Why not be the center, or headquarters of that National Academy in Kragujevac, for example, or why not in Piroth? Maybe everyone would understand better, as well as us as politicians and civil servants, the problems facing citizens. So, there's a lot of room for, I say, learning in walking, for compromises, but I'd really like to ask for clarification of the criteria on which certain figures were made, certain figures on the takeover of employees and appointed persons, whether this was from the Staff Management Service, the Government's Staff Management Service, first mentioned seven plus five, and then there was a figure of thirty. counterpart Marko Djurisic warned there was a figure of about 36,000,000 dinars. So when you read the whole of that law, you feel little and lack of some normistic-technical discipline. I was under the impression that I was reading the Strategy on Public Administration Reform or the Action Plan. So, this dictionary, the legal dictionary, must be much better sharpened in this sense that, behold, it was pointed out by fellow Pavlovic, that it really should define the position of the director, who is almost some in-house body, and that no member of this law is committed to his appointment, what his mandate is, we have proposed five years to our amendment, but he should be appointed by the Government, meaning neither his responsibilities. So this director is really missing, that he gets a member, too, because he's really powerful. He has the right to discretion and to influence the programme council of the National Academy, and to influence the selection of committee members. So it can decide, about what will be a work programme, but indeed, one man cannot possess that comprehensive knowledge. Finally, but no less important, I cannot resist the power of beauty and the wealth of Serbian language, it is also some MPs who have already indicated that I am surprised to use the word "couch", "couching". I think it's a little bumpy, it's a little hard, it's not in the spirit of our language. I can truly have an understanding for Minister Ruzic, who I know is a big fan of sports terminology and, at least, reminds me personally of the role of coach or coach in sports, but you know there's a coach in charge of the rules of the game and the course of the game, and this is how the wheel is defined, so he's a strategist, and as the couch and couching are defined in the proposals for amendments to the Law on civil servants, he's someone who equally participates with the students in the exchange of experience, so he's something quite low in relation to a mentor who conveys complete knowledge. If you consult with the Unique Method of Law Making, it also writes, it simply appeals to use the words of the Serbian language, or foreign words if there are no adequate words in Serbian for them. So my appeal would be to use the term "leader" instead of "coach". I mean, it's not, like, some Puritan purgatory and some Cyrillic or Serbian defense. It's simple, it's common sense, because really, as I say, the way he presented the couching in the amendment and addition of the Law on civil servants, it's really unclear what it's better than the students, that's how I simplify it. I'm saying I believe in e-Government. Here, on occasion, representatives of Estonia come to Serbia. We can say endlessly to our poverty, by being both wars and conflicts and various accidents, so to speak, society and states, but you can see that Estonia, as a former communist state, has managed to break that e-government. Here, now one question to Minister Ljajic in the context of these new electronics, so to speak, the law. I found information that Estonia gave Serbia some "Xroad server", whatever it means, precisely for the development of electronic administration, because it is also these laws that, and I am using the opportunity to commend Minister Ljajic, who in a very eloquent, simple, picturesque way, and in this professional way, presented the proposals of his laws. The most important thing is that we don't do everything we do for some abstract state administration, because you know how much citizens have resistance whenever they come to the local community counter or not to mention other organs, how hard it is for them to face state bureaucracy in Belgrade, but we do all this for themselves. Here, I am now looking at the team of Minister Ruzic and one of his associates is just insisting on this beauty, and I will now commend you on the English term “civil Servant”, meaning – official, servant, where it goes to this extent, because we are all here, we should really point out that we are citizens' servants, but in the proposals of the law, the word “civilian” is lost, and that is exactly what the Estonians have taught us, if you want to vote over the internet, if you want to have a complete identification or an electronic business through your mobile phone, you have to develop the participation of citizens. Minister Ljajic has already stressed, about 300,000 that it was included in some form of use, so to speak, modernised funds, but it is a real concern that throughout Serbia, you know that famous Serbian sentence – and where the seal is here. I also found information from your ministry that your team is still in effect with 100 different regulations requesting a paper document. We can't just be, say, environmentalists, because we're not in the congregation. We still get everything on paper. But indeed, digitalisation in Serbia is losing every day. We suffered here yesterday one defeat of those people, primarily the president, who showed that the software in which the taxpayers' funds were invested, from a pair of taxpayers, didn't work. So, the first day of the regular session of the electronic system and the digitisation of Serbia, promoted by this government, is in collapse. It's all very worrying. Our parliamentary group, and I end up with that, will support Serbia's modernisation. We can't out of fear of that partocrat, from that continuous intrusion party to the selection of personnel, because if you choose from those 450 thousand people to attend the National Academy, you've given him hope of being a better civil servant, but he'll also have maybe a bigger salary, it'll be easier to climb that scale of state positions. For this reason, because of this fear of the Partocratic state, we cannot support these two laws, and the laws presented by Minister Ljajic, we really have nothing against it, but in the amendment debate we will make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21722	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21723	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advocating Article 108 to be in line at the session of the old president of the National Assembly or his deputy, in this case you. First of all, you know that you hurt the Rules of Procedure by not giving priority to the injury of the Rules of Procedure that I advertised, you've already given the word to your colleague. As a gentleman, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21724	I'm sorry, buddy. You've called late, and you know that you can only ask for damage to the Rules of Procedure when it is done directly. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21725	Mr. Marinkovic, first of all, can you explain to me where he stands, in which member of the Rules of Procedure, that I have to point out to him as soon as I answer the word? I can do it in the second minute, as much as I have for this debate. I ask you, indeed, to bring this fine debate today, without tension, which the President of the Assembly begins every day, to a normal course, to a cultural conversation that we are discussing today. If you want to make a mess, you know we won't allow it and we won't be here, watching you not let us answer the word, you're taking away our word. You just said that an authorised representative of the SRS was someone else, and Vojislav Seselj spoke for 20 minutes, as far as he has in the Rules of Procedure, as authorized. Come on, please, I know that Alexander Wolf is in the coalition with Vojislav Seselj, but it doesn't have to be that obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21726	Thank you. Of course I'll try to keep the session running for the last two hours. Comrade Milojičić, do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21727	Thank you. I believe that you have violated the provision, that is, Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, because you were obliged, if you didn't think it necessary to interrupt the previous speaker, counterpart Vukomanovic, should at least after its presentation point to accurate data. Perhaps she accidentally made a failure, and thus led to the misreading of yesterday's words by President Gojkovic when counterpart Vukomanovic said earlier that we had made sure that the electronic system had not worked yesterday. That's not true. We were all here to witness that Maja Gojkovic said the system wasn't working, not...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21728	Wait, please. How did I hurt the Rules of Procedure? counterpart Vukomanovic presented her political stance and the sighting of yesterday's session. Please, it has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman. Please start with the next speaker, so I don't have to take two minutes away from the MP's time, because you're misusing the Rules of Procedure this time. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21729	Mr Marinkovic, your obligation has been, you have injured Article 27, to interrupt MP Milojic Radoslav, with the artistic name of Kena, and to explain to him that the Rules of Procedure should have studied for this time since the MP and that it distinguishes what the president of the parliamentary group is, which in our case is Professor Vojislav Seselj, who, from the legal point of view and his knowledge and education, has referred serious criticism to the proposals of these laws, and what is the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, which in this case, Mrs Vjerica Radeta. So, that disseminating fellow Milojic doesn't know it and he can't know it, because obviously there's not enough parliamentary or other experience to distinguish it, and those insinuations about who's in the coalition, I'll just say, Mr. Milojicic, that the only real opposition to this SRS regime is. It certainly cannot be you, your Sutanovac and all your pro-Western parties who have done so much evil to Serbia since 2000. I don't even know how you and what legitimacy you point to some violations of the Rules of Procedure, and here comes this Micic, who was once v.d. The president of the state and the president of the National Assembly, because in your time in the National Assembly, by your decision, there were 308 MPs, because you threw one away, you brought the other back, you voted from Bodrum, in the worst possible ways you misused the will of citizens, and you have no right to lecture anyone about what is legitimate, what is democratic, and learn what is the president of the parliamentary group, and what is an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21730	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21731	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 109. You had an obligation to give the previous speaker a warning. As someone who's first in parliament, I may not know things, but I know clearly, as I'm sure every MP here knows, please assure me that I am speaking in peace, this is not 2003, 2002, so that here the chairman of the water pool, it was never during the DS, an authorised representative or head of the parliamentary group, however, can speak. An authorised representative of the parliamentary group can be any MP, no matter and then that authorised representative, if that is Mrs. Verica Radeta, she has the right to speak. He can't speak to an authorised representative and head of the Parliament Club. What does that mean? That means I can be authorized and get 20 minutes and Mr. Ciric, as boss. He can't. I ask that those MPs that have been in parliament for a long time, so they may have forgotten certain members, educate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21732	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21733	Article 103, Mr. Chairman, and precisely because of the behaviour that has already been indicated, and in relation to the measure that you mentioned a moment ago. I'm not talking about my colleague Tepic right now. I'm talking about this MP, Kerojcic. You saw earlier that even after your oral warning he continued to behave as he continued to behave, obviously realizing the sole purpose, meaning and essence of his reporting to the Rules of Procedure to pronounce the name Alexander Vukic. Mr. Chairman, I think these things are being noticed, since a man is obviously very in the mood to behave like this all day, at least that's the impression he's giving up right now. I wanted to, without having to vote on it, just to draw attention to that behavior. If he, man, is not aware that such behaviour does not need courage or intelligence, I think it is a certain obligation for us to draw attention to him, so when he is unable to understand it, perhaps because neither courage nor wit has chronically ever been there, so there is no, to apply that measure from Article 103, paragraph 8, which implies that some time be cut short for further discussion. It's only when it costs them in some way, even for minutes, that people seem to understand some things that are simple to understand, but still it takes, maybe not as much courage as brains, and it's just missing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21734	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. We're done with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, the replicas. (Radoslav Milojic: How can you finish? This session must continue. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21735	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, today we have four important draft laws that introduce significant changes and newspapers, above all, in the field of public administration. When we talk about the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, we create conditions for them to continue the reform and reorganisation of the system of public administration. The current Public Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia provides for the establishment of a single system of professional training within the central national institution for professional training, based on a uniquely established training programme. It's this Academy that's imagined as the central i.e. a roof educational institution to work on professional training of state administration employees. When it begins its work, it will play a key role in the professional training of public administration officials, in planning and selecting staff, rewarding systems and career advancements, employee training. The academy will be independent, and its work will be supervised by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The training of officials will be carried out in co-operation with accredited institutions and organisations with the possibility of signing co-operation agreements with leading world universities, in which it will be able to exchange and improve acquired knowledge and experience. The key change that will bring about the establishment of the Academy is the creation of an ambience for the efficient and professional provision of services to citizens, businesses and transformation of the work of public servants with service for all users of services, so that if officials adopt only 50% of what they will learn at the academy, public administration at local and republican level will work on a much higher level. The Academy's task will be to train all public officials with basic skills and additional knowledge. In addition, the Academy will work to develop skills, communicate leadership skills for public administration employees, and with the goal of obtaining better and more efficient employees with much more knowledge and necessary skills. A significant newspaper is that this law first introduces compulsory education for public servants at all levels, from republican to local level, as well as providing equal opportunities for professional training for all public administration employees and thus enables further improvement of public administration work. There is a significant difference in current professional training between professional training of officials at the republican and local level. The truth - in Serbia there are certain units of local self-government that are not lagging behind the republican level in terms of organisation, the function of professional training, but there are a number of those in which this function practically does not exist, so we can understand that in a significant number of local self-government units, there has been no systemic approach to resolving the issues of their professional training and that exactly the National Public Administration Academy is a solution to this problem and a path that will make our public administration more efficient and professional. The National Academy will not only carry out training and professional training activities, but will, of great importance, have the task of providing continued professional support to all public administration employees. The second draft law, more specifically the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Employees, is closely related to the previous draft law, as the Proposer introduces a number of new provisions relating to the professional training of state administration staff, types and methods of implementation. The draft law provides for a general training programme under which provision is made for raising the level of knowledge and skills of the public authorities, and it consists of two parts of the introduction programme for decision-making of officials who first establish a working relationship in the state body, as well as the preparation of civil servants for the submission of a state expert examination and a programme for continuous professional training of civil servants in state bodies, followed by a training programme for managers who aim to perfect civil servants who are preparing or already in their responsibilities, while a special training programme is prepared and carried out the professional training of civil servants and employees in certain state bodies in accordance with the specific needs of their work and competence. The law prescribes mandatory elements of the professional training programme, while the general training programme and training programme will be adopted by the Government every year on a proposal from the National Academy. All of this tells us that the Government and the Ministry have made extremely responsible access to public administration reform as one of the most important tasks since only a strong, uniform and efficient state administration can be trained to provide citizens, businesses and other entities with high quality services. Citizens of us rightly expect us to ensure that public services are of better quality and greater scope, and that they are provided at a reduced cost of time, human and material resources. The adoption of the proposal for a law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business will simplify the communication of state administrations from one and the citizens and businesses on the other, will allow electronic documents to finally have the same power in practice. to be recognised as well as paper, and will allow different levels of identification of natural and legal persons. In addition to that proposal, the provisions of the electronic signature are better regulated, but new areas have been edited, which have so far not been regulated, such as electronic storage, electronic delivery and electronic seal, without which many, primarily judicial and administrative proceedings so far, have not been fully implemented by electronic means. At this point, as previously said, more than 100 signatures provide for the necessary use of a paper document as the only recognised meaning for the implementation of a procedure, the conclusion of a new legal transaction and the provision of evidence. This law is the first step in improving regulatory electronic business, and the biggest step is that this law and the introduction of certain trust services will allow the evidence and legal force of electronic documents to be the same as in paper documents. The adoption of this law creates a basis for establishing a modern electronic administration in the Republic of Serbia, which will enable citizens and businesses to communicate faster and more efficiently with state authorities than the home via a personal computer or mobile phone. The electronic administration will be significantly cheaper than the procedure with paper documents so far, since using trust services reduces the time it takes to carry out certain transactions and transactions. Jobs will be easier to perform electronically without the need to go to counters in certain institutions and without physical contact, saving material resources and time needed in classical business. In addition to providing the law with easier and safer access to services provided by public authorities and other entities by electronic means, additional flexibility on the identification of individuals in the conduct of electronic transactions is provided. True, the electronic signature is being applied today, but it is on the card, requiring a special reader and software, making it difficult to apply it, and what is changed by the new bill. In order for this law to be fully implemented in practice, all competent state authorities will have to work to establish trust among citizens, since there is currently a certain amount of infidelity among the citizens in the credibility of electronic documents. In order for this citizens' confidence to be as high as possible and the law itself introduces new instruments that will contribute to a greater guarantee of the security of these electronic documents. In line with the previous PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group, it will support all draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21736	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. The Belief of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21737	Thank you. If I had sat upstairs, my colleague Marinkovic, in accordance with Article 32, I would have helped you draw attention to the fact that you should have given me a replica when he spoke to Ken earlier from Smederjevska Palanka, when he said Seselj was in a coalition with Vukić. I really had to say that I should have been given the opportunity to say that we are not in the coalition with Vucica, that we, the Serbian radicals, are opposition to the Vucic regime, but also to all these old-dos franclams. In fact, they know that, but they just like to represent themselves as a specific opposition. People's MPs are getting it. ) Please, everything is in accordance with Article 32. As for Kenine's remark that he was afraid that we would, that it was past the time when we were, like, radicals, water-popping. Of course, we did it when we were supposed to fight for our democratic right here in the National Assembly, but Kenna can be safe. We wouldn't water him. It's beer for him, if there's any of those hectolitres he drank at the expense of Smederevska Palanka municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21738	Thank you. I believe that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, of course because Mr. Radoslav Milojic spoke and pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I had no business right and the opportunity to give you a replica. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21739	Dear citizens of Serbia, I don't know where to start before I start to analyze these legislative proposals, whether from our Euro-national government or from its Brussels mentors, who obviously have a crucial impact on all the legal proposals that we get here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For a year, I've been a folk MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I don't remember bringing some Serbian law here. We here bring exclusively European laws and laws that have been dictated to you and which you have translated from the Brussels directives that you receive every day through the fax of democracy, where every day you are told what you should do and how we in Serbia should live here. I don't know sometimes is this a European Parliament where we all need to serve the Central Committee in Brussels or is this a Serbian parliament where we are going to pass Serbian laws in the interests of our citizens, not in the interest of the EU? Minister Ljajic mentioned the esteemed NAED, and everything that is brought into the context of NAED smells to me of the role of the current Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, and the interest of those American organisations and companies that probably have a crucial impact on this process of digitisation and everything else that you are now conducting, I suppose that companies controlled by Ana Brnabic, her brother Sinisa Mali and others would get jobs in public administration based on all of this that you are doing. It would really be good to compare how this financial conto Ana Brnabic grows with its appointment for both the Prime Minister and the progress of digitisation seems to be progressing both by its firms and its profits at the annual level. However, I believe, gentlemen ministers, that we should not only coordinate with the EU, it is not the only side of the world, there is the east, there is the north, there is the South, there are other powerful states that are very highly informative written, which are in every other respect those to which we can coordinate. That is why I believe that these bill proposals of yours should look a little bit at the other side of the world, not just at harmonising with the EU. I am pleased to have you here admit that your entire law is, of course, speaking to Mr. Minister, above all, about a law entirely called the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Services of Trust in Electronic Business, which is nothing more than an ordinary translation of the EU Regulation. 910 of the 2014 European Parliament. Why don't you tell Serbian citizens that you translate European Parliament regulations and pass them as laws in Serbia? Wait, gentlemen ministers, are we members of the EU? We didn't. What does the EU regulation oblige us to do, why do we need the European Parliament regulation in our legislation? Why are we obliged to bring our legislation in line with European Parliament legislation? I really can't understand that. So, if a member of the EU has obligations to the EU, if someone is not an EU member, and as far as I know, we are not, and we will never be an EU member, at least by 2025 certainly won't, as your friend Junker studied to you. Why the harmonisation of our EU legislation? That doesn't make any sense. So, I don't see what the reason is for you to impose laws on us from the Brussels Central Committee that have nothing to do with our domestic legislation, especially laws like this which are highly relevant to information security. I don't see where you've predicted at these proposed points of this law how you'll protect the security of this data. But you predicted something else, and it was obviously important to you, you predicted that the register of qualified means of creating electronic signatures and e-prints would include classified means to create electronic signatures and electronic stamps from the list that is according to Article 31. Regulation of the European Parliament, published by the European Commission. Wait, why are we interested in what is being published by the European Commission, what are we interested in the regulation of the European Parliament? Shall we maybe share our data with them from the RS state administration? Is this an idea, Mr. Minister, to open up our state control board from the Brussels Central Committee, that they have in their possession information about our electronic business? Of course, that is the first suspicion, that you are actually putting the state of Serbia in full dependence on Brussels and the EU and that you are sharing with the European Commission, which is stealing Kosovo from you at that time, information about our electronic business in Serbia. It's not our interest. On the other hand, what is the general and domestic protection of information security, which we are now talking about, and where will it end this information that can also be the subject of criminal activities and, to say the sales of valuable information? Do you really believe that the state administration is protected from this kind of corruption that can result in the adoption of one of these laws? So the whole legislative project is designed and implemented as a copy of EU legislation, and what is obviously always most important to you, to align with the EU, not with the interests of Serbian citizens. This other person's regulation is obviously a priority to you. I ask you one very simple thing to answer me – why do we coordinate anything with the EU before we become an EU member? Wait, you undertake to do something that the EU commands us to do, and they make no commitment that we will ever be an EU member. That's admit it, totally pointless. So, I ask you not to bring the state of Serbia into any dependence on the Central Committee in Brussels, especially until we become an EU member. She doesn't make any commitments. By bringing you into power, it is your personal obligation to the European commissioners, do not pass that obligation on to the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. For example, the EU congratulated Tomislav Nikolic three hours before the polls closed in the second round of the 2012 presidential elections, victory. That means the SNS has something to do with Brussels. I understand that, you need to return that favor for a favor, but you can't use the state to return that favor. You can't use Serbian citizens to return that favor, you take it out of advanced pockets, so pay Brussels what Brussels has done you a favor to help you come to power in Serbia. You cannot use the interests of Serbia, KIM, electronic business, business, banks and anything else to return the EU service. That's what you have to pay out of your pocket, gentlemen of progressors and SPSs. If the EU has brought you to power, you pay it out of your pocket, not for the citizens of Serbia and our economic and other rights of interest. Finally, as far as these two laws are concerned, not all progress is made, gentlemen of progress, but there is also some progress that leads backwards. The best example is the SNS, which Serbian citizens call a "Serbian backward party", which has not made any progress in Serbia, but only problems in the functioning of the country. She mentioned a fellow MP and an "amazon", as if I don't know what the peak of digital shopping and modern consumer society is. "Amazon" is a jungle, Mr. Minister. So electronic business can take us to a kind of electronic jungle where we'll lose ourselves when we can't control the security of the data that you're sharing with the EU in this way without asking anyone in this country. This country is still a sovereign and independent state from the Brussels Central Committee and you have no right to sell us to the EU. If you've sold yourself, don't sell us Serbian citizens. As for the other two laws and the young minister... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21740	My colleague, this is for who knows which time I just have to remind you of the terminology. Don't do that, traitors, sales, please. Keep talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21741	Thank you, Chairman. I have just moved on to the other two laws and the young minister, Mr. Branko Ruzic, he is as young as a minister, but extremely experienced as a party soldier and clerk. It is really interesting today to see two party ministers, who have so much experience in party work, and to propose a national academy to perfect their party staff in the state administration. Indeed, the National Academy of State Administration is an extremely good idea, but in a state that has no party bureaucracy and in a state that is not ruled by a party parasite system. Since the entry of the Dvori into politics in 2011, we claim that one of the largest cancers of our society and the state is precisely a partial and party parasitic system that rules this country. So I claim that this good idea of the National Academy of State Administration can be very easily misused, even claim to be abused, to create a SNS and SPS academy for their party personnel in the state administration. Because, in fact, you can do this in a very simple and elegant way, to perfect the national cost of party staff you've hired in state places and functions. Tell me at what point of this bill, Mr. Minister, do you guarantee that it will not happen? At what point in this bill did you object to party employment? At what point in this bill did you object to progress in the state service of party employees? At what point of this bill did you challenge party employment, acquired diplomas and your party personnel who rule this country without deserve to be at all in these state functions? Tell me where it says it in this law, and I'll vote for it. I'm going to be the first to vote for such a law to examine all the acquired diplomas in the state service, who will fire all the party employees, your party parasites that you settled in the state administration, those who work during their working hours in the state administration of party affairs. Those among them who do not come to work, but only work for the party, those among them who place tenders for your party companies, Burazers, godfathers and other combinations, so when you put it in this bill, then you will be supported by the Serbian Movement of the Dveri, until then this is for us exclusively a party academy to further perfect the party staff of SNS and SPS. Here's what this bill would look like if we could just change one word. It says this - the strategy defines a number of equally important areas of promotion that require a thorough approach and a multidimensional process of introducing modern principles and trends in managing party resources in the system. The establishment of a personal development management system and the career of party officials or the adoption of a law by emergency procedure is proposed as its non-compliance with the urgent procedure could result in adverse consequences for the work of the party administration authorities and other party bodies concerned. So it's clear, Mr. Minister, that you don't have a single guarantee that this won't be a party academy, that only party-set state officials will be trained here and that their lecturers and those who train them will not be re-established. So this is a comedy, but for us, as citizens of Serbia, this is a tragedy, because you are now starting to use the state administration and that you are actually making further selections of your party personnel at the head of this troubled country under the authority of SNS and the SPS. So this is what you round up the party control mechanism of this country. You in this way want to see exactly who is loyal to you in the state administration and who is loyal to you that goes forward, that passes accreditation, that passes professional training, he can go on, and anyone who does not want to be party-colored in the state administration, anyone who is in opposition, that is. The vote for opposition in the state administration will be stopped on the way to progress through your National Academy of Professional Training. So, brilliantly you come up with this. Congratulations to Mr. Ruzic, this is one of the best party programs he's ever done and done. He designed to perfect his party employees from the SPS on state spending. Well done, but you can't get away with it without us noticing. So it's clear what your idea is with this academy. It is clear that you want to abuse the state over and over again to actually continue to employ higher functions to raise your party employees. In the end, I just want to suggest a solution for the director of this National Academy. I think it's about a man who is a witness fighter for our state administration, who already has several functions in the country, who recommends him to another post, about the head of all our secret services, the president of Serbia, the president of the SNS, the acting Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who met with three prime ministers yesterday, because we don't have a prime minister so he can't go to Bulgaria, it's clear that Aleksandar Vucic, besides Belgrade's mayor, could also be the director of the National Academy of State Administration. But instead, which is, of course, just a joke on how much the abuse of the state by Alexander Vukic is, I want to raise my voice on behalf of all the real and real professional and hardworking people in the state administration, who work for extremely small salaries, who are doing a huge outstanding job like everyone here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for extremely small salaries, which are mobing, which are being yelled at by Parliament President Maja Gojkovic, who have a huge problem with being pressured by their party employees with bought diplomas, state officials, who cannot do their job for bribery and corruption in the state administration and who are otherwise prevented from law enforcement. So there are high-quality people in the state administration, but they have no conditions to work normally because you, party parasites, those who have been placed there through your parties, those who have divided the prey among themselves when you have won the elections, abuse and harass them and humiliate them with such small incomes and relation to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21742	My colleague Obradich, speak to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21743	Of course, Mr. Chairman, you're part of that party-parsitite system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21744	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21745	Don't worry about me leaving you out of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21746	Except for me. Please. So, not in the plural.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21747	So, I understand that Mr. Ljajic and Mr. Ruzic have agreed on how many percent of this National Academy goes to the SNS, how much to the SPS. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21748	Comrade Obradovic, we should be good hosts and, of course, we're having a constructive and good discussion, not that we're talking about some deals here, I can't even understand what you're saying. (Bosko Obradovic: What have I done now? Please, this is still a tall home, the National Assembly. (Bosko Obradovic: Let me continue. I will give you one more chance to continue, but in a tone that is politically correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21749	Thank you very much. You're very kind. So let me give you a picture of that. When the minister, who is a party man, appoints a director of the National Academy, who will be a party man and appoints all members of the National Academy Program Council, who will all be party people, divided from all parties of government, it is called the party-parasitic system. When such lecturers, who are party lecturers, are trained by a party employee from the state administration, he will progress further in relation to the one in the state administration, who is not a party employee, just because he is a party employee. Now, that's called a party party-parasitic system that destroys the tissue of this society and the state. That's why Davery can't support the formation of this National Academy, because it's not the National Academy, it's the Party Academy of SNS and SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21750	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21751	Very short. So we don't prescribe any laws. This is absolutely a law that was made here in Serbia, including experts, the economy, the academic community, all the interested parties and that it is the original absolutely Serbian law. We are in the EU accession process, and in this respect we have an interest, we have some obligations to comply with legislation with the EU in any area. This is one of those areas. However, here we are taking full technical standards that other countries that are not members of the EU are also taking over. I think Russia is also taking over these technical standards because it has an interest. Because it has an interest is purely technical, so that it can use its electronic services in other countries, as if other users are using, for example, in our country, these qualified electronic services. Therefore, it is about assuming purely technical standards and that is our interest. There's nothing better than that for now. None of those standards made up any better. If someone invents better services, we'll probably have to accept that, because it's our interest again. We didn't make it up. So this isn't inventing hot water, it's taking over those standards that already exist. In this case, it is the EU's standards, or EU member states, but I assure you that it is not about copying, but about taking over certain parts of that directive, which you have quoted and, above all, the technical standards that exist under that Directive. As far as security is concerned. We also don't bring anything new here by this law in terms of greater or less security. So, all that someone could take over right now, let's say from the APR, some company's data, it's going to be able to do it now. There are no new ones, in that regard of risk, even if you will. We publish the schemes, and here we have accepted your amendment, which we will not send only to the European Commission now, has no obligation either, nor the countries which are EU members have the obligation to send their electronic scheme to the European Commission, but have an interest. They have an interest because these services will then be able to use other countries and they will be able to use services in other countries, but there is no obligation either for EU member states. We also accepted your amendment on this reciprocity and on the standards. What does that mean? We cannot implement any reciprocity and sign international agreements with other non-EU countries if these standards are not in our equation. Tomorrow, if we want, I don't know, with some non-EU country, to sign the agreement, and that country has the same standards. If our standards are different, we're free to sign that agreement. That's where we accepted that provision of yours about reciprocity, absolutely. So, and not only the EU, although it is our interest, we will send if it is of interest, but also to send other international bodies in charge of these matters. So, both China and Russia and the United States, wherever we have an interest, we're going to publish this scheme of ours. Therefore, there is indeed no fear of anything special. I know that the area is abstract and that it is the easiest to say – the data will go here, the data will go there. There's nothing you haven't been able to use so far, anyone, and here in the country, and strangers. We just think that this is a way that will reduce significantly possible abuses, possible falsification of documents and signatures and general communication. This is a promotion, because you know when you send something, whether it's arrived or when it's arrived and who's received it. You can't, like, so far, for example. I send you an e-mail, you say tomorrow - I didn't get anything. Tomorrow we show up in court, you say - I didn't win, and I say - I sent. It's mine for free that I say I sent. Now you know the exact time when a document was sent, from which addresses, that this address is authentic, and it's known that you received it, and it's known exactly at what time. So there's really no place for any mystification or attempt to transfer all of this to some security aspects now. Always, and that's what I said, there are safety risks both with law and law. As technology progress goes, these risks are increasing. It's not just our country's problem right now, it's generally a global problem. These challenges will increase, and I believe they will find themselves and measure to help them overcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21752	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21753	The basis is the mention of the party and of some alleged SNS obligations to someone outside Serbia, which he said or said briefly here's version of Ruza Tomasic. As far as our obligations are concerned, the only obligation we have, ladies and gentlemen, is a commitment to our people and our country, and that's something that comes from who we are, what we feel, and how we care about those we care about. That's more than clear. Now, why does the local version of Ruža Tomasic deal with it? Otherwise, Ruza Tomasic, for those who may not know, was a member of the Croatian Parliament, the only one who opposed European integration. She was very bile, very sharp in the discussions, about the way we listen to them now, so that as soon as the slightest chance of it turned out, she took the opportunity and hop - jumped into the European Parliament, on a good salary. We know that the one who loves here speaks sharply about the EU and criticises everything European, there is nothing against the euro, so the parallel here is more than clear. Otherwise, a convenient circumstance, Ruža Tomasic is right from the Croatian party of law, the Neusta party with which this version of the same lady relates. And, when he talks about obligations, it might not be bad for him to explain to himself and the people who may be sitting around him, and they do not know who he is sitting next to, what his obligations to Croatia are to the rights, her friends from the Association of Veterans of the HOS, or perhaps, on the other hand, what his obligations to the Bulgarian neo-fascists from the Ataka Party are, or perhaps to the German neo-fascists from the AFD, whom he admires and whom he congratulates. With so many extremists among friends, I don't even see what the European version of Ruža Tomasic could be, or am I wrong? Maybe he just wants to show that he's not an extremist, so this debate, like every time he gets up, shows that he's actually moderate, moderate in judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21754	Thank you. The word is Sonja Pavlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21755	Dear Chairman, I ask you best to respect Article 107, that the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. So far we have had opportunities from the previous speaker to hear everything in some general deputies – these, those who, and now we have suddenly received names, and we have learned about Ruža Tomasic. I really don't know what Ruža Tomasic has to do with this assembly. Come on, please, let's get serious, we don't have endless time. Or the lords of the ruling majority have some new, expanded edition of the Rules of Procedure, like you, and you left us this old, so somehow we can't get along, here's two days. I ask you best to respect Rules of Procedure one, whichever Rules of Procedure, but share with us all this new expanded edition, so that we know how to behave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21756	Thank you. I would be more willing to give everyone in the National Assembly the right to express their political position. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21757	I absolutely want him to plead. Not everyone can express their political stance whenever they think of it, especially their political stance on Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21758	Thank you. The word has Gjorge Milicevic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21759	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with what counterpart Pavlovic just said, we should respect the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but we should not have double arches and double standards, so only when the MPs of the position speak must we respect dignity, and when you listen to an earlier speaker who comes from the ranks of the opposition, then we should not do so. During an earlier speech, the SPS was mentioned several times along with the SNS, allegedly that the SPS had sold out, that we had agreed. It may be what the speaker thinks is supposed to work, but of course we don't function and we don't do it that way. That someone brought us to power, that we had a responsibility to someone, etc. We were brought by citizens of Serbia, and we have a responsibility and responsibility only to the citizens of Serbia. This government of the Republic of Serbia has huge trust and support for Serbian citizens. If that is not clear to anyone, look at the results of the last presidential elections, see the results achieved by the joint candidate of the ruling coalition, Aleksandar Vucic, see the results of the last extraordinary parliamentary elections. You know, democracy and power don't come true in this way, through an attempt at obstruction, through chaos, it doesn't come true in the streets, it comes true in the elections. It is legitimate that each parliamentary group has its own position, that each political party has its own position, but it is essential whether they properly value and recognise the position of Serbian citizens. It is past the time of these harsh speeches, past the time of such political parliaments, citizens are determined on the basis of results, and the results are in particular on the side of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21760	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21761	I thank you, Chairman. I think this time, as before, when it comes to the opposition, you're first advertised injury. 106th and 108th. Rules of Procedure, expressed a high degree of tolerance towards MPs from the opposition, and especially the degree of tolerance where it is inadmissible. Please, Mr. Chairman, consider the following facts, which is that all of us MPs here have our own personal and ethical code, our morals. The ministers sitting here, both Mr. Ruzic and Mr. Minister Ljajic, have the same. If so, and so, then do not let such a morale offend the way MP Dvory did. Telling someone to betray, or sell the state, is nothing more than a flagrant insult, and an insult to the citizens of Serbia who chose us. I ask you, to those who are hypocritical, and here hypocrisy has reached its peak, do not let that hypocrisy be a constant mirror of this congregation toward the citizens. We can't let that happen. The hypocrisy is that it is those who accuse us of selling and betraying the state that points to the colleges and the working bodies of this assembly that the opposition is at risk. Did the threat, Mr. Chairman, if someone in his speech, as the speaker did, speak the speaker, put out the most constructive words directly insulting Serbia's reputation? Serbia will never be sold to anyone and will never be betrayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21762	Thank you. Of course, I intervened several times. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The right to replica has Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21763	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, the answer to Mr. Rasim Ljajic. The full law is the EU regulation, number 910/2014 of the European Parliament. The only point not prescribed is point 12 of this Regulation, only because it says that these are obligations for the EU Member States alone, so you were unable to transpose them into domestic legislation. So we're seriously following what you're doing, Mr. Minister, and you can't hide it. So, as far as the problem of being identified as a traitor, I really didn't use the word that you traitors used it last time. So there's no reason, I don't know why you recognized yourself, I was talking about something else, that by coming to power, you took over certain obligations to someone who brought you into power and now you want to pay those debts over the coat of arms of the Serb people, through KIM and other services that you now want to return to whoever brought you into power. It's a sales contract, maybe it's not an electronic business, Mr. Ljajic, but it's a sales contract. So, we're bringing you into power, they're still bringing you in on October 5th, you're Mr. Minister for the ninth time minister, you've been involved in these shopping activities multiple times. So they bring you to power...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21764	My colleague Obradovic, I can't give you any more, so you can talk and talk about buying and selling people, MPs, ministers, please end up in one correct tone. Here, here, one more chance, then I'll have to take your word for it. Sign up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21765	Thank you first of all, and you said one very important thing in this House that everyone has the right to freedom of political speech, and I will end up saying one other thing. I must inform the ruling majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the European Parliament is also a Eurosceptic, that a large number of members of the European Parliament are those who are against the EU and the Central Committee in Brussels. That the UK has left the EU. You have to be in the process of modern-day movements in Europe. That's all I'm recommending.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21766	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21767	Really, I feel really bad listening to this debate. I've long decided to say a few sentences or words about pseudo-nationalists, pseudo-traditionists, and also about turbo-religious members of the Dvora movement. Turbo-religious, why do I say that? Because they're selling us something that's long gone. Because they want to impose what's overcome, what's regression. Serbia that is going to the EU, therefore, will indeed be Europe's Serbia and we will work really hard on it and we will succeed. Why am I saying this? Because they want us to always wear the vest, the flippers, take the flute and guard the sheep. That's not what we're gonna We want electronic business. We want to be consistent with other countries, so that we can be in Europe. That's what we are, modern Serbia. That's what SDPS stands for. We have results, these results are very clear, and the results in politics are what the people say. That's why the people in the vote said what they thought of us, about the ruling position. That's why Europe has said what it thinks of us, because we have really opened chapters, that's why all the serious countries and Russia, and China, and America and how they see what Serbia, this new one, are this modern Serbia to which we seek. The one Serbia advocates the Dvora movement, indeed, that country will lose, be sure of that and we stand behind it. The results of Minister Ljajic showed what we know and what we can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21768	Thank you. Professor Chevarlic answered. Please, on what basis you answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21769	A member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly was injured. I'm one of the people's jobs that comes in here in the pans. A colleague of Mijatovic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21770	Please speak to me, not directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21771	Mr. Chairman, I don't think the outsiders are retrograde. Retrogrades are many other things that we have heard here and that have been happening in this congregation. Since I am a non-partisan MP, even though I am in the Dvere parliamentary group because I was on the Dvori DSS coalition list, as a non-partisan MP, I think you should sanction this kind of thing. I've got two costumes. One is SNB, that's the sign of Karadjordjevic, because they were all soldiers, which many here don't know. The second is the burden, because it belongs to the Karadjordjevics who were statesmen and merchants. I guess now you've learned something, the ones who think the outsiders are just retrogrades.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21772	Thank you, Professor. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21773	I command my colleague Marinkovic to be a member of 106. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, wanting first of all to help you, because I know how difficult it is at certain times to establish order at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, article 106 says - the MP can only talk about the agenda point and no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him except the president of the National Assembly, in particular the chairman, in the cases provided for by this Rules of Procedure. Today, Mr. Marinkovic, we have four very important legislative proposals. I think at this point we're too far away from the topic, we're too far away from what is the essence, please get back to the debate on the agenda. I don't want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21774	Thank you, dear colleague, we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21775	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You hurt Article 109 because you failed to give notice to a fellow MP from your parliamentary group and at one point was a great pleasure to me that you began to hold a session in the way it should be, to give a second opinion, and then you entered into something called party discipline. You've become very sensitive to Mr. Ljajic's exposure as your president and your party colleague. I'm not turbo-religious, I'm a Serb Christian, Orthodox religion, double Hadji. I feel offended too, Mr. Chairman. That's why you should give your head of Parliament a warning, because I'm not a quasi patriot, I'm a patriot, and I'm not a quasi-traditionalist, but I am a traditionalist and I am a Serbian nationalist and I am a man with a complete understanding of any religion, no matter what race, no matter what gender, no matter what religion. I draw your attention that it has been repeated several times in this building. I never, and you know it very well, have not insulted anyone on any basis. And I'm not allowed to be told I'm turbo-religious. Yes, I am a Serbian Orthodox Christian faith and I am religious. And don't touch my religious feelings. I'm a little bit harsher now, because I'm really offended. I didn't expect this from a colleague who's so many years old and who has that calling. I demand that you apply Rules of Procedure, Rule 109, which says something like this should be sanctioned by a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21776	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. I see that I have the same archaic to every MP. I didn't take Professor Mijatovic's exposure offensive. You have the right to be whatever you want, that's your personal matter and that's what you just said. That's allowed. You have the right to say what you want and that is, in fact, an indication of how democratic we are when we hold meetings, that you have the opportunity to say what you want, how much you want, and how much the Rules of Procedure allows you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure multiple times, but this is the first time I've had a word. I have reported since the presentation of "a rock of two cabbages", because of the insults he has sent to this parliament, or to the parliamentary groups of the majority. I also called about the fallout. Article 103, 106 and 107. Now I feel offended too. There are two kinds of collars - one is work, one is parade. My collar is working. The fellow who came forward and the MP's group he belongs to, their persuasion is paramount. It is a person who has taken 60,000 euros from Dusan Petrovic in due time to write a thousand small studies about co-operation, which he has never written. Apparently, it's part of that parasitic system that was spoken of by "the stone dveric kupusic", which stands for cave Serbia – that is, you bring the stone from India for cabbage, you hit a journalist, but to be a big rock, so she doesn't get away with it by chance this time. So I am offended many times, even as a believer. Faith must be true. You can't go as "stone dvrić kupusic" to swear in Hilandar, on the Trinity icon that you won't make a party but a family organisation, and then take 5,000 euros and cheat. Then you should not swear on that handle, but on an icon that would, for example, be called the “holy Christmas Left Hand. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21778	I will listen to my esteemed colleague, Djordž Milicevic, and that right gives me the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with the session. (Marian Risticevic: And I demand to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21779	Thank you. I'm glad we're finally back on the subject of this session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in my presentation as president of the Independent MPs' Club, I will focus, above all, on two laws concerning public administration – on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, as well as the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration. Both these laws and the other two laws will be discussed significantly more closely during the further course of the debate by my colleagues from the MPs' club. The general assessment of these two laws is that they are unclear, confusing, undefined, without clearly defined competences, which are often overlapping with each other, that they open up a space for politicisation, corruption, clientism, and that they will produce too much negative consequences, i.e. instead of contributing to improving the quality of public administration work, i.e. the necessary strengthening of administrative capacity, only to lead to their further deterioration. The minister said yesterday that the academy is just one cube in the mosaic. However, no matter how beautiful, clean and polished that cube is, it cannot change the shape of the entire mosaic, or it cannot change the situation in our society that is extremely bad. Moreover, these laws are also contrary to the strategic goal of membership in the European Union, which was declared by President Ana Brnabic at the very beginning of her exposé. This law violates the European Union's criteria for implementing public administration reform, which are also the criteria of the ‘Sigma Mission’ common body of the OECD and the European Union. I remind you that these criteria are next – transparency, accountability, depoliticalisation, professionalisation and efficiency. I will also remind you that the EU Enlargement Strategy for Public Administration Reform has been set up as one of the three main pillars of reforms on the road to EU membership. In addition, as well as plans and measures for reforms presented by the special working group on public administration reform, which was formed under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the latest report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of public administration reform has yielded devastating results. Only a third of the plan was met, and the predecessor, Mrs. Micic, spoke about it. Of course, here we must be correct and mention the fact that the government has nevertheless received praise for the realistic demonstration of progress or, more specifically, the absence of progress in this area. The seriousness and sincerity of access to European integration testifys to point 8 of the declaration of compliance with EU rules, which relate to co-operation with the EU and the participation of consultants in the making of rules and their opinion on compliance. Namely, both draft laws contain under this point three identical parameters that are unsuccessfully trying to hide the fact that co-operation with the EU has not occurred. Instead, a long explanation is given of the formation of an interresor special task force. I will now speak more in detail about these two laws, especially the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration, although it is almost impossible to consider them separately, especially because of the fact that they amend and supplement the Law on Civil Servants contain provisions that should sooner be contained in the Academy Act. Not to slow down the need for continuous training and the creation of a professional and efficient state administration, it is estimated that the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration is one megalomanical and unsustainable project that will only cause high additional costs. The project, unfortunately, resembles a well-known example of doctoring at its own university. In this academy, it is likely that similar lecturers, who are also similar to, above all, party staff, will be issued diplomas that will cover their work in certain public administration posts, i.e. to open a shortcut to the trained party staff by getting formal coverage that they are competent. In this way, only the politicisation of professional businesses will continue, the departure of professional staff will be accelerated and thus the efficiency of the public administration will be reduced. I specifically warned this problem when discussing the election of a new government, that is, the Ministry Act, when I opposed the formation of a special ministry for European integration, due to the expected politicisation of professional affairs and all the consequences it carries. Unfortunately, we didn't have to wait long for negative consequences. So the personnel who spent more than 10 years in the European Integration Office, which was drowned in the ministry, and who carried to a large extent the technical part of this process, continued to leave the state service. No one should be surprised that people with so much experience and knowledge, if they have a minimum of self-respect, can, for example, accept that someone, contrary to the law, is appointed as assistant minister from a younger advisor. Here is a concrete word for the assistant minister of European integration in the EU's communications, training and preparation of Serbia's version of legal fluids. This person's biography, which is available on the Ministry's website, says that she graduated in 2014 and that she worked in the cabinet of ministers for less than three years without a portfolio for European integration as a younger adviser, and that she was in a group of 70 students who travelled to Europe in 2012 through an otherwise excellent European movement programme in Serbia. Probably an even more drastic example is the State Secretary in the same ministry, which is a person being appointed, and therefore it is not subject to the provisions of the laws relating to the minimum length of the employment, as should be applied to the assistant minister, who graduated from tourism and hotel management at the University of Singhidunum, to then work as a junior adviser at the SNS Parliament Club, or adviser in the aforementioned cabinet with no portfolio in charge of European integration. I think it's clear from all of this that one of the main objectives of the National Academy is to legitimize people like these, which are certainly many. This practice will, in a demotive way, affect all those who have improved and progressed regularly and will only contribute to a further outflow of quality personnel from the state administration. Therefore, the expectation that such an academy will be defended by party employment is unfounded. There is also a question about both public administration laws, is it possible that their adoption will degrade both the state and the expert exam? This is just one of many questions that these laws bring, and these questions are incomparably more than there are answers. For example, there is also a question of overlapping the authority of the academy, staff management services and the European Integration Ministry, since despite the drowning of this service in the academy, it will continue to work, but in an unknown form. For example, the Staff Management Service has so far been conducting training, publishing competitions, except in the field of European integration, for which the Office for European Integration was in charge and now the ministry. There is also a question of what will happen to the high official council, whether it continues to act in the form in which it has so far acted, since it seems to me to be mentioned only in one place in this law. The next issue is the question of derogating the powers of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which oversees law enforcement, the way in which the competences of the National Academy programme council have been defined, as well as the appointment and resolution of the Director of the National Academy. This is just another example of the centralised principle in all areas carried out by this government. This bill for the first time in recent history contains, and rightly unknown, neutral category – face. The question arises which persons can apply for accreditation, as the persons can be physical and legal. Despite the explanation given yesterday by the minister, the next question is – why are terms not in the spirit of Serbian language, such as "houching-couching", while the ruling coalition strongly refuses to accept that there are two equal letters in Serbian, which only makes our language richer, and gives our citizens an advantage in adapting to modern flows. It is obvious that in writing this law they are a model to take texts in English, which are then unwisely translated. Speaking of "houcing", the question arises why is it being ignored and otherly pushing a good practice of mentoring and passing trainees through all sectors within a particular institution, and why are employment criteria not respected? And not only are employment criteria not respected, as we have seen in the case of assistant ministers at the Ministry of European Integration, but the laws are being violated, and by keeping a large number of persons placed in the state administration in a position longer than the legal deadline, so that what should be an exception has become a rule. This also seems to be the legacy of the socialist system when temporary, i.e. transitional solutions lasted the longest. I thank the Minister for explaining yesterday that the concept of executives does not apply to officials, but the question remains whether there is a need for all executives to go through this kind of training? Moreover, do the conditions of the planned rationalisation of the public administration of the overload of a number of civil servants, the minorities who wear the entire system on their shoulders most often and who are most competent, require them to continue training? Often, such a system is justified by EU requirements, but is the question from which, or rather, to what level should civil servants be involved in training, as well as what dynamics? What is particularly concerned is that the law foresees, contrary to the name and purpose itself, that the Academy, in accordance with the requirements of legal and physical persons, can prepare and implement commercial programmes and that, if I understand correctly, the Government, in each individual case, determines the tariff for services to be provided to those persons. These provisions open up a space for corruption and return of services. In this way, too, it is possible to drag through small doors of personnel past public administration and then the question arises why is this law simply not renamed to the law on professional training? When it comes to the Law on Civil Servants, I would particularly refer to Article 49, which provides for the takeover of employees without competition, by the mere agreement of the executives between different levels of government. Autonomous provinces, local self-government units and urban municipalities are listed, a potential source of corruption and politically motivated employment, which ignores expertise as a criterion. In this way, the president of any municipality in Serbia could agree with any minister on taking over an employee, I repeat, without any competition. I'm sure I don't have to explain that this provision will only speed up the political transfers of incompetent, but politically similar personnel from the local to the republican level. Finally, a few words about the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Services on Trust in Electronic Business. If we were to judge on the basis of current negative practices in the field of health, as well as in the procedure of issuing construction permits and in other areas where electronic business has been introduced, we have no reason for over-optimism. The means to implement this law are provided for, but nowhere is indicated for what purpose. It is merely stated that the fixed assets require 10 million dinars. If the new hardware is to be purchased, it is not essential and necessary. What is important is quality software, which is witnessed by yesterday's session of parliament, as well as the training of staff, since the ruling coalition certainly does not have personnel to carry out such a demanding project. In view of the above, the MPs of the Club of Independent Members who make up MPs of the Civil Platform and the New Party will be declared against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21780	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're going back to work. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21781	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, members of the government, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, before the start of my discussion, I would like to point out that the SPS parliamentary group will support the draft laws we are discussing today, because these laws deserve it anyway. In this, let me say, part of the discussion relating to authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, I will first determine by law relating to the status of the National Academy of Public Administration, and later, of course, to the other draft laws which are the subject of today's debate. Today we heard a lot of statements about the National Academy of Public Administration. We have also heard those who are constructive and those who, least of all, are insolent. Dear Minister Ruzic, this move that relates to the status of the legal matter, which is the status of the National Academy of Public Administration, is an extremely responsible move by the government of the Republic of Serbia and in any case contributes to the immeasurably efficient and rationality of public administration in general. We must say for all those "unbelievable Tom" that this is one way that involves the continuation of the already started process of comprehensive public administration reforms. Why am I saying comprehensive reforms? Well, we're already in the reform process. The reform process has been carried out several years ago, even longer, through the rationalisation of the public administration by reducing the number of employees in line with the negotiations and conclusions adopted together with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and there is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is that the reduction of the number of employees in no way will lead to the situation of becoming a social burden, i.e. a controlled reduction of public administration employees and thus to reach the level of optimal public administration employees with competences that public administration employees must have. These two laws, on the National Academy, as well as the Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants and how they have a reflection on the process relating to the reduction of the number of employees, which is certainly the reform process. Why am I saying this? It is simply because only when the public administration reaches the number of employees who are optimal for the performance of the administration's tasks can we access one right way, one real methodology of training, professional training, education, or the acquisition of certain knowledge and experience that improves the quality of public administration work. We've heard a lot of constructive suggestions. One of them was that education can be conducted in an individual way, and that means that everyone who is employed in the public administration is obliged to work on their own, to educate, to build on their knowledge and experience and that is, in any case, a proposal that is to be respected. But what was the criticism is - if so, and for what do we need an institution like the National Academy of Public Administration? One of the reasons is that, regardless of whether the legislator has prescribed the institutionalisation of one administration body, in this case it is the authority of the administration, each of the public administration employees, whether in public administration or in some other sectors, must take care of their professional training and the emphasis on new knowledge and experience. This is far more efficient and easier to accomplish through just one institution that deals with it, because if it's left individually, we get to volunteerism, we get to campaign work, we get to what it already has. Well, even so far, all public administration employees have been able to educate themselves, to work on their professional training, to acquire new knowledge and experience. Why haven't they done it before? Well, if they haven't done it before, how can we believe they'll do it in the future? Then, on the one hand, in the spirit of harmonisation with EU legislation, it is really our obligation to help this process of skill-telling, experience of public administration employees right through the National Academy, and then there is justification for the National Academy. Besides, this law, Mr. Ruzic, is a legal law of status. Why? Well, because he only regulates the status of one institution. I want you to ignore these remarks today and I'm sure you won't accept them when it comes to the organisational structure of the National Academy. Namely, the authorities, particularly the managing authorities of the National Academy, cannot be defined by this law. Why? Because they're regulated by the State Administration Act. Under the provisions of the Law on State Administration, the director of the National Academy is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as his deputy. The Director shall give appropriate powers to the deputies. Today we have heard a lot of different statements that have neither a fact nor a legal basis. What we are being imputed as a ruling coalition is being prevented right now. There won't be any partocrats here, there won't be any party influences or anything, because the pedestal puts the profession and the employment on merits. Employment on merits implies that every employee, whether he is a candidate for employment or wants to advance in his profession, must earn it. He must earn it, mostly, through the evaluation of his work, and the evaluation of his work includes the evaluation of his mobility at work. If so, and so, then a comprehensive assessment is given of whether he can work in public administration at all, to serve the needs of citizens. Why? Because the public administration is one of the basic services of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of any state that builds upon the public administration the needs of citizens. It's not just environmental and municipal needs, it's also the needs that relate to spatial planning, to sanitary needs, etc. We have to, we want to, we don't want to, take care of meeting such needs, and these two laws right there make an effective public administration. The next thing that must be pointed out and that no one in the discussions today has pointed out and, as it would say pesoriously, from the plane is seen, if anything else, the adoption of these laws balances administrative practice. As we have unequal court practice, we had even more uneven administrative practice, because one way is done in Belgrade, the other way in Smederev, the third in Nis, the fourth in Užica, etc., etc. So we have a situation where if there is no unequivocal administrative practice and if there is no standardisation of work in the service of the state, or public administration, then we will come to the fact that citizens continue to express a legitimate dissatisfaction with that segment of the state, or the institution of the state, under which this dissatisfaction must not be expressed because the needs of the citizens must be met. Otherwise, what makes these laws a qualitative legal solution implies something else, which is that, when it comes to civil servants, in no case is favored solely by employees, but by all those who claim that in the system of state, or public administration, they achieve their own potential. Superstitious professional, experienced, knowledge-based, and then the one that connects to so-called. a personal, ethical attitude towards Serbian citizens, which is that Serbian citizens cannot be discriminated against in the exercise of their rights. Such system solutions will certainly not be allowed. When it comes to programmes and programme advice, i.e. advice to be set up as part of the organisation of the national academy by this law, it should in any case be pointed out that the National Academy of Public Administration is not a higher education institution, nor is it a tendency of the legislator, nor should it be. The National Academy serves only for professional training and education, i.e. to acquire new knowledge and experience. You don't get a college degree at the National Academy. At the National Academy, there is an appropriate confirmation that the employee has reached the level of knowledge and experience that credibilizes him to be able to perform his job, or to do his job. What is related to higher education institutions remains in higher education institutions and there are absolutely no touching points, except one, and this one implies that the National Academy of Public Administration can also engage high-level institutions, so both colleges and high school and scientific and research institutions in order to facilitate easier professional training of employees and this is an absolutely legitimate way of achieving expertise, training or training. Why? In particular, because at the very initial stage of the work of the National Public Administration Academy, the National Academy of Public Use will not have the necessary fit with the profile needed to implement this training process, i.e. vocational training and training as soon as possible. Furthermore, the National Academy is obliged to cooperate with those that can be trusted and who can be assessed with certainty to also give a boost to professional training and training. They're employees themselves. They should not be forgotten, and they should not be eliminated from this educational process. For what? Because officials in public administrations who have already reached a certain level of knowledge and experience, these knowledge and experience can pass on to those who do not have such knowledge. The old wise saying of Jovan Jovanovic Dragon says: "It is not knowledge to know, but knowledge to give," and in this situation it is precisely these laws that allow those who are employed in the public administration to transfer that knowledge to those who need it. I have already said that, when it comes to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Officials, it is in any case a complementary law to this Law on the National Academy of Public Administration. He is complemented by the fact that these two laws must follow one another, because officials must, in any case, be subject to the education that is being set up here, which is being systematicised here, and then these provisions of the law are very clear and precisely defined what the obligations of the employees mean, what does the obligation of the executives to educate themselves mean, that they too are subject to a programme of further professional training and education. I don't think there should be any critical position in that direction when it comes to amending the provisions of the Law on Officials, that is, officials in the public administration. Mr Ruzic, we recently, several days ago as members of the delegation, attended an interparliamentary conference in Montenegro, which dealt with the state administration and public administration in countries that are candidates for EU members. We have come to something that is actually the conclusions that can be drawn from the analysis of these laws that we are discussing today, which is that state and public administration must be based on two principles or two principles. The first principle or the first principle is professionalism, and the second principle or second principle is depolitisation, i.e. the elimination of what has been here as a mantra in the Serbian Parliament for a long time, and that is partocrat. The countries that value these very principles have also provided opportunities in their legislation to recognize what is good and to apply in our legislation, and we are doing so today, and therefore you have the support of both ministers who have presented these legal projects in the opening statements as they are. As for the Law, which was explained in the opening section by Minister LJajic, which refers to the Law on the Electronic Document, on electronic identification and trust services in electronic business, I must say on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that this is one qualitative shift forward, in order to enable even more efficient, and especially through electronic administration, to improve the conditions for citizens to meet all the needs that citizens seek, or which of us they require. Why? Because that electronic identification, which you, Mr. Ljajic, were talking about, is doing something that we haven't had in the system of state administration yet. Both the electronic signature and the electronic stamp are in any case solutions that are not only avant-garde solutions, but solutions that in a practical sense allow for much faster traffic, an incomparably faster way of serviceing the needs of citizens, and thus facilitate, simplifying the work in the public administration and what is most important when it comes to the objective of this law, which is a reduction of costs, which is why you gave in detail the reasons why it is related to rationalisation, i.e. economics and cost reduction, so that I would really not repeat it and never repeat myself, and I do not want to do it today either. What I want to point out in the end is this. This is just the beginning of a further work, and I am convinced that the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, as well as your ministry, Mr. Ljajic, will continue even more intensively on this job. This is just the beginning of something that we have to accept as our obligation. After the adoption of this law, you as a minister will in any case have the obligation to bring in a series of sublegal acts, especially when it comes to the National Academy of Public Administration, sublegal acts that relate to what makes it possible for a more successful organisation structure of the National Academy, sublegal acts to define how personal solutions in the programme council will be reached as well as other bodies within the framework of the National Academy. I think it will be one task which, in any case, deserves the greatest attention solely for the reasons that those with the highest credibility in the profession must be represented, whether it is individuals or higher education institutions, or scientific and research institutions and other factors that can be found in this system of vocational training and education. I repeat once again that these laws do not deserve anything but to be supported and supported, I hope, by all MPs who think about these laws in a way that implies pragmatic thinking. That's why I'm sure these laws will be passed in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21782	Thank you. The word is from MP Goran Ciric, president of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21783	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I think that today's debate is actually an opportunity to discuss a major civilization challenge for our society. We've always been like a parliamentary group against uniting various points of the agenda, but it seems to me that this unification has actually given me the opportunity to observe all these laws in one integrated and united way. It's the responsibility of all of us. We all know that the development of one society depends, above all, on the participation of citizens in decision-making and on strengthening the capacity of institutions that can implement some decisions. I understand these bill proposals just as a desire to strengthen institutions in the state and I think it is necessary and necessary. The DS will always be for modernising society, but in a way that can be sustainable and that will, above all, benefit the citizens of Serbia. Here, now that I'm watching you, the Department of State Administration team, headed by the Ministry of Telecommunications and a team headed by another minister, I see how you're at the same job, but in different periods of the development of all humanity and this society. The Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government communicates with Serbian citizens via counter, through the adoption of acts, laws, and the Ministry of Telecommunications with these laws and with a law that actually brings solutions and tools for communication, tools that will benefit all state administrations, all institutions, in fact modernize and facilitate access to every citizen, theoretically every citizen in Serbia, and thus, with compatibility with world solutions, and every citizen on the planet Earth. It is our challenge and I think that the key challenges in what Minister Ljajic said are the information, telecommunications technologies that change very quickly. We hardly follow them as individuals, and as individuals and as humans, we have enough slow evolution that doesn't change even for hundreds of years, and on the other hand, we use increasingly powerful means of information, telecommunications society, increasingly powerful weapons that change in postulates for three or five years. These are the key challenges for all of us, the key security challenges for all of humanity. We are now talking about individual solutions here, and I wanted to underline precisely the importance in this debate of how we will look and look for solutions in the integration of all these individual legal solutions, but in the progress of our entire society. To mention some things. So, we have a specific Law on the Electronic Parliament, we have a Law on Electronic Security, the Law on the National Academy, on civil servants. We also said that we discussed the responsibility of the authorities on these issues. I was the president of the Permanent Conference, one of the mayors of the cities, and I know why it is important to make compatible solutions in different cities, municipalities, where many different decisions have been made in the same affairs very often and in such a way all citizens living in 175 or 176 different cities and municipalities in Serbia should be equal. It is therefore important to seek, above all, through the National Academy, concrete solutions and solutions that mean practice in applying different acts at the level of local self-government. They were very often incompatible, and there can be helped by the administration of the infrastructure that we talked about and the electronic document and the qualified electronic signature and the time stamp and the claud and the electronic warehouse, which this law speaks of. So, I think it's important to accept some of the amendments that we've given, because we've been thinking about exactly how we're going to involve local self-governments, and their knowledge, people at the place who live their lives and who want to arrange their lives, so they're also going to influence the programming advice at the National Academy, so we've made suggestions that they should be represented mostly in the National Council, looking for and defining both the topics and the way they're going to be trained and what they need in the majority decision-making in this programme council. I hope that you will accept these suggestions and accept these amendments and these solutions, because I am sure that they will support, above all, people living in local environments, because if these laws finance the work of the National Council, of course it is necessary and that they affect most of the programming objectives of this National Council and the way they will be trained. I underline once again, it is important that it be in practice, not in general, because there have been different approaches and in some solutions to the application of the Public Procurement Act, in other applications, in the management of public finances, because we will all agree here in this room, it is not necessary to train mayors who have been leading the city almost bankrupt for five years. We have seen, the Fiscal Council has talked about financial risks both Kragujevac and Nis and Novi Sad and Belgrade and some other cities in Serbia and whether it is necessary now that these mayors, who thus led their public finances, sit in the bench to train themselves to lead this in a much better and more efficient way for the next five years. No, it is necessary for people with their administrative capacity and administrative experience to participate in the definition of programmes and exchange of good practices to be able to shift the quality of governance in such important institutions as local self-government. One of the key training programmes should be what the Anti-Corruption Agency recommends. And they insisted, above all, on what was contained in the Strategy by 2018, on their strategy, which is, above all, the insistence on training on ethics and the integrity of people who work in public administration and local self-government, because insisting on ethics and integrity means that these people will manage human resources in the most efficient way and choose the best ones, those who have the greatest expertise and the same and integrity and ethics. We have one example, and indeed one of our colleagues mentioned, in which way we started this session, absurdly, in which we talk about an electronic document, we talk about all these tools, about electronic signatures, about time stamps, about claudo, about electronic storage. I am now asking you, Mr. Minister, in what way will we now approach this electronic warehouse or "claud" in the storage of the report on yesterday's session in which we manually counted the votes, which we were said was not working on the electronic system in the Republika Srpska Assembly, and how will we access that data? So, we need to convert this analog information now on how many hands it was for, what number of hands it was against, how many of them were abstained, how many did not vote, so we're going to digitize it in a way that becomes an electronic document, so we're going to try to access the "claud" in which one such data will be stored. It's really absurd, and it really speaks of integrity and ethics in running different institutions, first Parliament, then local self-government and public administration. I think it's a start in the successful implementation of this infrastructure that Serbia needs, and I want to underline that, and I think it's very important. Let's get back to the sustainability of these solutions. I think it's very important that we talk about people. So I was talking about the capacity of institutions, but first of all through the capacity and knowledge of people. Surely you also meet in your ministries, as everyone in your institutions meets, what a problem it is to keep the best personnel, especially in IT, in your institutions when the offer is so good for them at the moment in private companies. So the power of state institutions can only be maintained through the strength and quality of the people who will remain in those institutions. That's not possible, because we brought here three years ago or four laws on temporary wage cuts and pensions. Direct demotivation of those people, and there are also how capable, hardworking people in the public administration, in the state administration, those who are unrecognizable, and those who are recognized are largely and demotised. I think some of them left that public administration in search of better opportunities. I think it is one of the key problems and challenges for you and your ministries, but also for all of us for the entire public administration in Serbia. To resolve this, it is necessary to abolish the law and bid on a new change or increase. I think it is necessary to abolish this law and motivate those best who can contribute to their knowledge in raising the capacity and quality of the work of these institutions. When we talk about security, electronic security, I think it's important and I will repeat the DS's position on one principle, and you will recognize why it's important for electronic security, communication and greater trust in these services, because without investing in that trust, without investing in the future market... You mentioned that there were 300,000 e-signatures issued. There would have been more if there had been more services that would have been accessible to those same people who had these tools. If you don't have enough services, if you don't have enough opportunities to use them, it won't be big. Someone mentioned Estonia as one of the most successful countries in the development of the E-Goverment, but it is clear there, in addition to investing in these knowledge, in addition to the sustainability of their solutions, because they have developed them themselves, and we are going to be in a phase where we are going to be consumers of some external solutions with questionable possibilities of whether we can maintain these solutions and whether we will be self-sustainable in this regard, and that raises further security issues. Of course, we have to think about that infrastructure, next to the one you mentioned, which is defined by this law. So, communication, information. It is necessary, first of all, to talk about people, because I think the key story of the sustainability of this business is in people, their knowledge and their willingness to invest over and over again in their own knowledge. Then they make sense of these laws that we're talking about. It's only then that these laws make sense, if we talk first of all about people and the way to keep the best quality and the way to motivate the youngest to be the future users of these solutions. This same Estonia, which we started talking about, since the first grade of elementary school introduces programming to its schools, then you have written little students who can use such solutions in the first year of their schooling. Then there will be development, and then it will be possible to implement some projects, and I believe that there is such potential in Serbia that one co-worker spoke of, about the different modalities of electronic trade. I don't think that's any science if we integrate all the knowledge we have in this country and, of course, we apply solutions, but we manage to make our dynamics and our willingness to strengthen institutions as well as local self-government, the state administration through legal solutions and through these solutions that are being offered today. So once again at the end of this attempt to encourage the main and key themes, people are really key people, people, their knowledge, their willingness to learn about the future, their willingness to anti-cipe what is going to happen in the future, what changes will bring about a new information society, and then how to regulate our country, how to invest in future knowledge. The differences at this time on planet Earth are most intensely driven by this information and telecommunications knowledge. The most developed countries are becoming more and more developed. The least developed countries are becoming increasingly less developed in the cascade, in this race to develop and encourage the development of information. As a result, we all have a great responsibility together, but it is a key responsibility for the government to integrate these knowledge through all ministries, because these responsibilities extend, not only through the Ministry of State Administration, through the Ministry, through all other ministries, the Ministry of Economy and the way these offered services are implemented is in fact an opportunity to examine our own values and possibilities. Unfortunately, the way we've done it in recent years, we've shown that the level and quality of institutions in Serbia is dropping. I have already mentioned the financial situation in many local self-governments, major financial challenges that many local self-government have. With that luck, the minister himself, I'm sure, needs to be dealt with, but with this kind of approach, we certainly won't solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21784	Thank you, colleague Kiric. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21785	Do any of the authorised representatives and heads of the parliamentary groups want a word? Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21786	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the SNS parliamentary group supports the proposed laws, and we really consider them a very good contribution to all those activities that are intensively implemented seriously and responsibly in the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of establishing a modern society, an effective state mechanism that is indeed the best possible service for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, we commend both sectors that we are discussing today and all proposed laws. In more detail, the contents of these laws were also discussed by the present ministers and colleagues authorised representatives of parliamentary groups of the assembly majority, and I do not want to re-explain all the details of the content of the laws itself, but I would like to point out once again that when it comes to the laws on the National Academy of Public Administration, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on State Servants, we really believe, on our part, that the newly established mechanism or new method established precisely proposed legal solutions will indeed be the right way for civil servants, both at the republican and local level, to be able to further perfect themselves, to advance their skills, to pass specific trainings that require special skills. In this way, conditions will be created that they perform their work more quality than they have done so far, than they do now, and this does not only apply to situations where the job is done inadequately or with insufficient experience, but in addition to these situations and when the job is done in quality, that what is good is even better. I think that word is indisputable, clear interest, primarily of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Information Security Act, it is a technical and organisational issue that indeed in the function of the competent CERT an office which has certain competences and I believe that it is not disputed for anyone in this room, but something more attention is paid to that law relating to the colloquial electronic business, i.e. the problem of the electronic document, the identification of services from trust. So it's about really modern good solutions that will make use of, but also business in general, more efficient, easier, not only for business systems, business entities, but also for access to services for our citizens will be enabled in a more efficient, more suitable way. Also, the public government itself will function more efficiently and better. These are all good reasons for us to support this proposal on our own. Both sectors have made real good efforts when it comes to this modernization that we are talking about today. Indeed, the proposed solutions are fully in the spirit of the time in which we are in this century. There have also been some criticisms on the subject of these issues today. So modernity and adequate approach are seen through everything that we have worked together in this room, dealing with, say, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, dealing with different solutions from the domains of so-called. electronic administrations. The facts of practice say that there is a significant number, more than a hundred institutions, precisely thanks to the solutions we worked on in this room, interlinked, that hundreds of measures of services that our citizens used successfully, and that every time we welcomed solutions with this or this kind of word, the result came in the practice that our support and this kind of words justified. There's absolutely no reason not to do that this time. I want, as we always do, to comment on what we would call critical tones or attempts to make it sound that way. Today, for example, we met with a proposal or a vision, and we'll probably discuss it in detail when we discuss in particular, so that the proposed National Academy is not an institution, but, as it is said, the programme. So, a brief insight into the content of the bill and what this National Academy should be doing shows black on white that it is absolutely pointless to talk about the subject that the institution can replace the program, when for example, Someone should be involved in data collection, when someone needs to deal with the processing of that data. It's not a program that can do that. So there must be, physically there is, someone who will deal with these issues, accredit other institutions or individuals, to do certain training or training. So it's clear that it can't do something we'd call a program. We're used to, uh, different strange ideas here we listen to, over and over again, explaining over and over again, to talk. Unfortunately, nothing but a loose story here and can't be expected as any contribution. In line with this and estimates that have absolutely nothing to do with the quality of the proposed solutions. Nothing to do, ladies and gentlemen, with what we're talking about today, they have no fountain questions, no kindergartens, no folk singers. That, speaking of folk, is part of something considered a standard folklore. For those who have granted themselves nothing to justify the role of on-call critics of everything and everything, they consider themselves to be the devil or the Lord God, but with all due respect and understanding that some only if they talk about folk music or music in general can they move in the domain of what they know as a topic. This is not done in the National Assembly. If we need to, when we discuss in detail, we will explain ourselves in more detail. After all, things here are about knowing, or not knowing the function of the National Assembly, knowledge, or ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, and it seems to be a chronic problem for some here. As far as the departmental issue is concerned, and we've heard it as some criticism at least twice today, two notes from my side. First of all, it is obvious that the question of the department is completely declassified when it comes to these laws that we are discussing today. Nowhere, there is absolutely nowhere to be found an interest that an official who is to serve the citizens should not be better at the work he does. Now look, we can talk in a domain of who it is when it comes to a certain duty, who when it started to do a certain job, but never that, whether it's a period of a few years or a few decades ago, doesn't affect the fact that a man here has a particular job and is doing it for the benefit of a citizen who speaks to him. Isn't it the particular citizen's interest that every man who needs to be at his service or should be given a particular service, to finish a certain job, to be maximum success in that job? How? By further perfecting, clear as day. Everything else is empty stories. It may sound like a big subject to someone, but completely hollow topics and those who decide to deal only with them at this session or any other session should feel free to expect that they will also go politically as those who patented the story of a terrible division. Of course, those who now yearn in every possible way for the party to become themselves, which means they'll end up somewhere below the number of invalid ballots in some elections, whatever they are, whenever they are. As regards the issues of funds, whether they are justified or not, it is directly related to the question and justification that the National Academy also performs certain commercial services. It can't be bad in itself. The possibility of obtaining income in this way cannot be bad for either the academy or the state itself, so perhaps it can justify the resources that may seem great to someone. Maybe it doesn't work, maybe it just says so. We're used to hearing from people here and things they honestly don't mean. I think it is quite realistic to imagine the scenario in which this academy provides services to these trainings for those who do not belong to the electoral system of the Republic of Serbia, for example, to people who do similar jobs in the region. Language understands, systems function in a very similar way, and what is considered good practice and professional skills, so it's universal at least. As for criticism on the account of solutions so far established when it comes to maximum, or limited incomes or the maximum number of public sector employees, as well as the functioning of local self-government, all this again, ladies and gentlemen, has little to do with these laws that we are discussing. But once we've touched these subjects, it's good to know that those solutions really have had good consequences and that's what the numbers say. That doesn't have to say either of us because he thinks something should sound in a certain way, either positive or negative. These figures say that without a little 38 000 fewer public administration employees since the end of 2013 to this day, thanks to the application of these solutions. In total, about 80,000 less employees in the public sector. So what's the basic intensity that the reduction number gave us is the result. On the other hand, overall employment has been increased. Until about six months ago, we counted about 130,000, slightly more than that, newly employed in the real sector. Today that number is bigger. Today we move near the next decade when we count. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the truth is that there are also constructive proposals and that what we are discussing can be further improved after the amendment procedure. We look forward to making the solution better and better. In that sense, the construction on our part, absolutely always and in every place when it is deserved, and when the reaction is initiated in the way that Serbian doubler Ruže Tomasic did, and the answer adequate, both on this and on any other subject. As far as the results are concerned, we don't have to worry. For Serbian citizens whenever asked about it, the SNS and parliamentary majority in the National Assembly will benefit, it will always be good. Another bill of law support.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21787	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21788	Thank you. I would take the opportunity to simply give a review and give some answers to the remarks that have been made after the presentation of all the heads of Parliament's groups or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. I would like to thank, of course, all the speakers, the bosses, the authorised representatives, and the objections and constructive criticisms and some other criticisms that have been addressed. There are some, I'd say, a dozen topics I've located as significant, simply for the public, for our citizens' sake. It is important that we do not enter into one process of not understanding the intensity of the adoption of this law. I also accept the need for some representatives to, in some ways, politicize this. It's no big deal. It's all legitimate, but this is still one law that treats a question that is important to both them and all of us, primarily for citizens and for the introduction of order in the system. It is mentioned that the professional training process is aimed at public administration without allegedly focusing on public policies and that it would be best if the training was done by university professors. The Law on civil servants provides for in Article 97b thematic areas which form a general training programme. Among other things, there are already topics of strategic planning, public policy, analytical skills and other related topics. So that argument just doesn't stand. As far as the university professor is concerned. They can, of course, be lecturers like everyone else. They'll sign up to be accredited if they want to and enter the list, so accredited lecturers. Of course, they won't be able to teach academically the materials taught in college, because here the emphasis of the administration is on practical application of concrete knowledge and skills development needed for civil servants. A series of dilemmas has been presented by several MPs as regards the election of the director or the legal nature of the academy, i.e. the organisational form in which it is formed. I repeat, and I said yesterday that the National Academy Act clearly defined it as an authority of the administration. The form to be established is a special organisation that is in accordance with the State Administration Act. The work of special organisations is governed by this law and the relationship between the laws in the legal system must be understood. The State Administration Act is a system and general law, and the Academy Act is organisational. Therefore, it was not necessary to repeat all these provisions and the Law on State Administration which defines the work of specific organisations. The National Academy is concerned with the need to carry out professional andragogical activities, i.e. non-academic but professional adult training. As a special organization, it is managed by a director who is responsible for his work to the government. The director is appointed by the government for five years, as clearly stated in the law, on a proposal by the Prime Minister, under a law governing the position of civil servants. Therefore, directors and all other employees of the academy are in the status of civil servants in accordance with the Civil Service Act. This means that the director must be placed in a contest, because the law also provides for those who criticise the way of the election are simply wrong. Therefore, it must be placed in a competition where its professional, management capacity is checked and there is indeed no talk of arbitrary or party de-pollution. There have been questions regarding the word national, in marking this academy. I think we need to know nature and matter to realize that it's a natural consequence or a logical consequence of a system of professional training in the state administration. Therefore, the National Academy itself implements a general, joint programme for all training programmes, a clearly defined law, and other administration bodies can, in accordance with common methodological and professional rules, program and implement specific training programmes. Such a system is not new, it has existed for a long time. Some authorities have formed their own organisational forms that implement these specific programmes, such as The diplomatic academy or the Judicial Academy and the national specifics are simply not anyone's or any claim but simply expresses its position as a central national institution in accordance with the Public Administration Reform Strategy. Also, there have been reservations and questions regarding the headquarters of the academy, the cost of travel of students, training from the local self-government unit and the need for employees of local self-government units to be lecturers at the academy. Of course, legitimate questions, and what I can give in response is that the academy headquarters will be in Belgrade. It is a republican authority of the administration and, as well as any authority of the administration and in the affairs of the administration carried out by the academy, they can also be realised outside the seat. That's the case with a number of management jobs like that. in the case of inspection surveillance carried out through administrative districts. The same goes for professional training that can be performed outside the seat and so it will be whenever it is rational, meaningful and economical. Today, we are only discussing the law on the academy and the Law on civil servants, but the following period will be complemented by the provisions of the laws governing the position of employees, i.e. employees in local self-government units and AP. Then their professional training will also be included in a system in which the academy will have a central place. However, it is under this law that we will pass in the voting day, employees of local self-government units and the AP who are equally with state administration employees at the republican level can be accredited and teachers. There were questions about the need for the academy to work in a modern way, to publish professional literature, not just organise lectures. The law on the national academy itself clearly states in Article 4 which jobs the academy should carry out. Among others, it is said that the academy publishes publications, performs publishing activities, as well as organises a library and preserves information and conducts a mediatheque. So this is a way of saying that professional training programs are implemented in both electronic and online learning, which is already a practice at the Staff Management Service. So regardless of the criticism, I wouldn't say that either me or the government or us or this law has run over the clock today, I think we're just in step with time. Questions about programming councils, professional bodies, composition and mandate, as well as this story of politicizing through these bodies and directors, and how to stand up to it, if there is at all and how to control it all, there was simply no understanding of nature or desire to understand the nature of these bodies. It is therefore the bodies that the managing authority of the administration could form to carry out certain tasks from the work of the Authority. These bodies are just being mentioned in the law for transparency, because I don't see any reason to hide anything. The programme council does not consist of political representatives who would have a political mandate, but experts from the administrations themselves who are already working in ministries and other bodies on professional training or work outside the administration on these jobs and who can, in a professional sense, and in terms of their experience, help prepare professional methodologies, i.e. how to work on professional training. The same goes for other professional bodies, of course. For example, they are educated in areas. For example, if you have a legislative process, it is logical that in the professional body that prepares that part of the training, officials from the Republic Secretariat of legislation, or the General Secretariat of the administration, as well as from the professional departments of the National Assembly are seated. The Director of the Academy is responsible for the work of the Academy, such as any head of each body of the administration responsible for the work of the authorities, and the authorities are independent in the work. It's all in the law. Therefore, the director should organize the work of the Academy and these professional bodies and give the answer for that work. The ministry of state administration and local self-government, as it says quite clearly in the law, is overseeing one of its seven sectors. It is a sector for professional training, and through the most professional people sitting in it. Also, through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all authorities are subject to control of this home, so the National Assembly. It is mentioned that there is a problem with costs, disproportionate costs for employee work compared to training costs. So, I think it's again about the lack of understanding of the system of state administration, the entrusted affairs of the state administration, the system of professional training and the relationship between the general and the specific training programmes. So here are the necessary funds for the Academy and its work and for the work of about 30 employees as planned to have it. Also, the Academy has funds in the planned amount only for the general training programme. It also says clearly in the law. Each administration body, in accordance with its needs, will plan funds for specific programmes in its budget, such as each unit of local self-government, or AP, will plan its special funds for its specific training programmes. So you can see from this, and you can see from the very provisions of the law, that the Academy is extremely rationally organized, that there are a small number of employees and that lecturers are not employed permanently but only accredited and engaged only when they need to implement a concrete training programme, which is the most rational way to use these resources. Also mentioned, one of the colleagues said the problem was the transitional regime and the validity of the current accredited lecturers over the next three years. The transitional regime shall ensure that there is no delay in the professional training of officials. The new system will require that sublegal acts be adopted first, which is scheduled for six months, which is also clearly in the law. Some of the opposition's amendments suggest that the deadline be longer, nine months, which we will consider, of course, as one of the constructive proposals, but we certainly need to understand that it takes time for the system to be settled and the transitional regime to provide a smooth change. It's easy to hold things off or to hold things off if you can't do it in action. Again, we suggest something very transparent, knowing what the state is and what the state of our administration is. There have been issues that do not concern the Academy or professional training, such as the Action Plan report and, what is also important, we need to know that the report is, of course, on the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government site and covers the period from 2015 to June 2017. A very strict assessment of the current implementation of the reform has been given. So, we ourselves as the Ministry are giving an assessment of what has been done and I think that this criticism that has been directed, for this reason simply doesn't stand, because I think it's important that we know how far we've come, what's left to do, what's partly done, and in any case it's the way and how to in a transparent way to the public, citizens and citizens, to those who are interested, businesses, simply show what's been done in the field of reform. And there were these interesting topics, I mentioned it yesterday because I expected it to happen, around the language and about the termology and the term "couch." I think those who mentioned it or mentioned it should, it would simply be their turn to know that this term comes from the 15th century. It's not about the English word, it's about the Hungarian word, which has entered all the big and small European languages. So from English, French, German, Russian and Serbian. So there's no selective approach, both east and west, this term is used. If you want, I can explain in a minute what it was then in the 15th century, just to understand the whole problem. No, I really insist if it's not a problem. So there was a small Hungarian village that began to produce a new kind of vehicle, simply because of the public, and because of those who may be critical of such a thing, that vehicle was called a ‘brake’, by the name of that village. Of course, the driver of the car in Serbian is called a coachman, and in our case it's called a carriage. This vehicle, of course, that was needed at the time because of technological progress, became highly sought, popular, and in the 18th century, it also found its place in education. So, he went through a total transition from that 15th century and that village to a term that marks those that effectively, and that is primarily what teachers and doctors of science should know, lead their students, for example, to the ultimate goal or to some success. As far as sports terminology is concerned, it's related to an identical term. He only entered the 19th century in sports terminology. So, as far as professional literature is concerned, Serbia has been detached, it is present in professional and scientific works. At Belgrade University, it is used without translation, if anyone needs a translation, I don't mind. I also heard some suggestions on how to translate it. So, I don't think that argument just stands. You also have unique methodological rules for writing regulations that refer to Articles 32 and 33, so you can read that, so it's quite realistic and possible. So I'd say, as far as language is concerned, it's quite good, accurate, professional. I'm not a lawyer, but I think it's a very clear law from the point of view of legal terminology. Once again, I would really like to thank you right now at this stage, so we will see later, of course, we will have a day when we will consider this law in particular, but to really thank all the heads of Parliament, including those who used this with a single dose of populism to criticise this law. It is, of course, natural in a democratic society, I have nothing against it, but I wanted for the public's sake that either that populism or some, I would say, unfounded arguments and criticisms, to explain what is really the essence of and reform and the law on the National Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21789	Thank you, Minister. We now proceed according to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. The first in line is Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21790	Thank you very much. We have filed as a parliamentary club a lot of amendments to these laws, especially the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration, but I am now on the verge of changing that position, of withdrawing all these amendments and of supporting the laws because of this explanation that has now been given to us by the minister on couch. It's really one genius thing, and if we had known before, we really wouldn't have gotten into a dilemma about this law and the need to bring it in at all. I now understand this provision on the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, it says – it is proposed to pass laws on an urgent procedure since its non-immediate procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations in the public administration system. Of course, as soon as possible, because since the 15th century, there's been an expression of "couch." From Hungarian, through colliding in all languages, he has come to us and is now going to solve the issue of the administration. I always get scared and touch my wallet when someone from the SPS, or from those who held power with them in the 1990s, mentions it nationalally. That's where I know it's either some kind of scam or some kind of theft. Every time it was national, and it was founded in the 1990s by the SPS and their current partners, it was some kind of citizen scam. Where the Serbs were protected, they were gone. Where the institutions were, so they became national, they disappeared. With that caution, I also entered the analysis of this bill. Of course, at first sight it is obvious that this is another farce that should be a modern term for what is called the evening school for party staff, lower and medium levels in Serbia. He says – The National Academy is the central institution of the system of professional training with the status of publicly recognised organizer of activities of informal adult education. So it's something between feng shui variants and makram training and other handiwork, and this time it should be for the benefit of the public administration and that, says the minister who proposes it, officials would become kind and that it would lead to the development of the skills of officials. What are these skills that officials could not otherwise learn in high schools and in colleges in this state of Serbia? What is learning and what is needed for public administration and not studying at law school, at the Faculty of Economics or some professional school? What is it, what are the skills, the matchmaking, the taking of bribes, the organization by party principle? This bill is a slap of education in Serbia, slapping and basic and secondary and especially high education, where the mambo-jambo college of science appears now, where everything that can otherwise be learned in those colleges is put into the drawer and now a team is going to make a difference and we're going to be better, more efficient, more useful, and I don't know how. That's nonsense. Of course it takes constant training of employees everywhere, especially in the public administration, there is no doubt, but of course that education can be conducted in a way that remains in the education system, not in the making of evening schools. There was one in Kumrovec, one was in Pozharevec, I don't know where this is going to be, whether it's in the northern stands of a stadium among the divisions or it's going to be in New Belgrade, or it's going to be in Kronska or it's going to be, I don't know where the minister lives? It's unserious, it's a farce. Some say there won't be any of those party pyramids, there won't be anything like that. Well, let's see if it's gonna be or not. Here, let's say, this is the Minister of State. As I recall, he's also vice president of the SPS. Do I remember correctly, do you? I think so. At the end of the bench where he sits, there's a young man sitting who's the president of the youth of the SPS. It has nothing to do with party organization. It has nothing to do with what it has to do with the partyocracy, but, well, it happens that out of the five people sitting here, there's one vice president of the SPS, and the other is the president of the youth. Well, I've been a little in power for a decade, so the president of my party's youth has never been anywhere in the state administration. That's easily verifiable. I don't doubt professional qualities, I don't doubt personal qualities, human qualities, but it just can't happen. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw this law, reward the good officers and set them up as an example to the bad officers who are the majority. In every ministry, you have 30% of people who don't do anything, 30% of people who don't do anything and 30% of people who do anything. That the law is not right, a boycott of the SPS parliamentary group, which is present with 10% of the total number of MPs at the time their minister defends the law. Therefore, withdraw the law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21791	The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21792	Thank you. I really don't want to get into controversy, nor is it my manners. Charmingly, Mr. Zivkovic explained his position on something he wanted to say. I didn't understand what he was saying about the law, because he didn't really say or criticise or point to any serious irregularities. When he started, I really hoped that he would seriously think that he would withdraw the amendments, but if the amendments were in line with what he said, I think it would be very difficult, not to consider them, of course, that as serious people we would take into consideration, but that it would be difficult to accept. As far as personnel solutions are concerned, I don't understand what the problem is, if anyone who meets the law of the prescribed condition, and belongs to a political organisation, is taking some place in the cabinet of any minister? I don't know what your case was, what your cabinet was when you led this country's defenses, and we know how our defenses and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia went back then. You say that the SPS and SNS remind you of fraud, theft, etc. I only remember the word “privatisation”, then somehow you appear to me in the eye, without speaking when I remember a word called vineyards, etc. So, Mr. Zivkovic, I would like to ask you, since you were not present at the afternoon session this morning, when the opposition MPs have spoken very strongly about this law, I will really no longer report for the word, nor will I argue with anyone, but I simply want to use this as an example for this afternoon's debate, to imitate your own and terminology and verbalization with what is the agenda point. What you're going to say about the SPS, I don't expect you to praise the SPS, it's natural, and I don't expect the SPS to praise you, but this law is really essential for the whole administration, for the state of Serbia, for the economy of Serbia, for Serbian citizens, for Serbian citizens, and it must not have a political color. I've tried, and I'll always try to explain in a serious way and answer the criticisms that are based. I've also responded to those that aren't founded, but I'm not really gonna answer this case anymore. I thank you for your kind words and I urge that we do not lead the debate in this manner, because it does not help those who voted for all of us, and these are Serbian citizens as bearers of sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21793	Thank you, Minister. Replica, Nedjo Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21794	I thank you, Chairman. We in the Socialist Party of Serbia are not surprised when someone calls to say something and says nothing. And what he's saying has nothing to do with the subject, or the point we're discussing. So there's no surprise in that direction. But there's something that needs to be answered, and that's not true. If we are talking about the law itself, to begin with, the speaker said that the system of education is collapsing, i.e. primary, secondary and higher education. What does that have to do with the National Academy of Public Administration? Absolutely nothing. On the other hand, we're talking about some theft, so I'd like to remind whoever points to this theft - what was after 2000, through robbery privatisations, when stealing can't be measured by money, when the economy is devastated by the law that the gentlemen passed, the Privatisation Act, and when we talk about nepotism and employment, then I need to point out something that might remind Mr. Zivkovic. Mr. Zivkovic, was your wife employed at the Legislative Secretariat...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21795	Please speak to me, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21796	... When were you the prime minister? I don't want to cause controversy in any way, but I'm just stating the fact. In order for the hypocrisis not to rule this parliament and this session, then whoever is invoking something else needs to go away, because you're the cleanest in front of the mirror. When you look in the mirror, you know who you are and what you are. And then that mirror says something completely different than what the speaker is saying. So that's why I remind you whether the gentleman's wife was the secretary of the Legislative Secretariat at the time he was Prime Minister... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21797	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. They all got right to the replica. Today we have three laws on the agenda. We're talking about the National Academy. Please don't throw it away. [[Zoran Zivkovic: I have the right to reply.]] This has nothing to do with the agenda we're talking about. (Zoran Zivkovic: But I am called. What does this look like? ) (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to proceed with the session. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21798	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me just tell my colleagues that there will finally be a state in this country. The state is a community of people. That community of people needs public work. Public affairs are public service. In order to do so, in free democratic elections, citizens choose those who will make sure that the public interest is realised. They take personal incomes, hire public officials, to make public jobs happen, because not every citizen can heal himself, teach himself, bring himself trash, build his own roads, build himself an army. However, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a saying: Thieves and cheaters will desire power and democracy will give it to them. It's Socrates. It goes on – and when thieves and frauds reach important state functions, there will be such tyranny that is worse than any oligarchy. Tomorrow's October 5th. We congratulatory, who wanted economic and political change, who wanted a proper public service and public servants...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21799	Comrade Rističević, come back to the topic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21800	I'm talking about public servants. ... which we wanted political reforms, which we wanted the market economy, we got monopoly and crime. We got a tyranny worse than oligarchy. This was attended by various state officials, various officials, who placed their wives not only as secretaries, but also in the electoral commission, to redecorate the electoral will and thus create public service. Let's remember taking the mandate to the DSS. Also, it happened to raise their own castles, to keep the people on the street. And those of us who ripped our shoes off after them, we have to remember that date. There's no greater evil than an evil mind. And when someone talks about public servants, and when he calls for economic honesty, and you can't find his diploma, then you ask yourself, justifiably, is she the saying of Socrates true? When someone tells you about nepotism, and your wife gets admitted to the DA's office without a criminal trial, to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, then you wonder what kind of civil servants they've created? When someone tells you about the diagnosis, which means he's the bearer of the same, and he's looking for medical examinations for others, but not for himself when he was a public servant, then you wonder what kind of monopoly and crime occurred on October 5th? (Maya Vidinovic: Mr. Chairman, do you hear what the apostle says? ) When someone takes advantage of the political power acquired on October 5th, abuse officials and receives 525 thousand euros in vineyard subsidies and becomes my fellow farmer in an attempt, they charge it, and then move the company to the Virgin Islands, then you wonder what kind of public service and public affairs we had after October 5th, we wanted changes, which we wanted better? We, who didn't welcome it better. We who watched our leaders enter the penthaus apartments of 500 000 euros, buying apartments in Vienna, raising on the pasture of a magnificent building, having a collection of timers each costing more than a small apartment, we who wanted democracy and a market economy are aware that we have received crime and criminals who have appointed prosecutors and justice as a public service that will not punish them. The prosecution and that judiciary are independent of this government, but it is not independent of the former government that has reformed the prosecution and the judiciary that it has actually deformed it. They will not prosecute members of their party, and these other great heritage merits of the prosecution and the courts of their party, so that citizens are justifiably angry at us, but citizens should know that we can control only executive authority and that kind of service. We can't control the prosecution and the judiciary, and that's where everything, as our people say, is yellow. That's why thugs and cheaters in public services and former officials remain unpunished. Citizens should be told that one day we will stop this crime and stop the corruption that is the head of the sugar that many participants of October 5th have sweetened, except for the common people. One day I hope that the citizens will help us both to have these prosecution officers and the judicial authorities right and to punish the great crime committed after October 5th and their protagonists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21801	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21802	You've injured Article 107. It's clear to everyone here in the O.R. that you've been silent for five minutes. I'll read you article two, article 107. – at the session of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People's Parliament, to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. Who knows which way the MPs and the MPs concerned are, but also the MPs of the majority speak this way to the MPs of the opposition. You're also aware that you've been silent these five minutes and I don't think it's an honor. You've clearly injured this member of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know why, but if we're talking about this subject of integrity, of ethics, of training people both in local self-government and in public administration, of course we all need it. This is exactly where the attitude of responsibility towards citizens comes from. The relationship with each other and this way the atmosphere of impatience and the atmosphere of violence is broadcast, first verbal, and later it can become physical. I think it's your responsibility at this point, because you didn't respond in time, you could react, you didn't want it to happen, and, look, I'm going to tell you that this is what I want the Assembly to say and vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21803	Thank you, for the suggestion. You are, as always, a correct talker, but I did not have the opportunity because a previous speaker, or colleague Marijan Risticevic, had not addressed anyone directly, so I could not assume in this hall that anything was referred to, but no name and last name of the members of parliament was mentioned. You said you wanted parliament to come out in voting day. Thank you for your suggestion. The word has been sent to the people by Zoran Zivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21804	Article 104. – It is offensive to say about the MP, etc. What are insults? Insults, first, that I was a defence minister at a time when the state fell apart, the minister said. Before that, I was never the Secretary of Defense, I was the Home Secretary. At the time, Kosovo was an integral part of Serbia, not a single war was lost at the time, and Montenegro was also in the state community. The second story is privatisation to disgust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21805	My colleague Zivkovic, I apologize. (Zoran Zivkovic: I answer why I am offended. Very precise. () You mean point out why I am and how did I hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Zivkovic: I beg you to give me your word.) Here you go, just sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21806	So article 104 guarantees the right to replica when an offended MP is offended. Well, I'm saying what insults were given, and you didn't give me the right to a replica afterwards. Privatisations in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21807	Thank you for showing me, I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. It has nothing to do with privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21808	Let me explain. So, the mention of privatisation was first in 1992 and 1997 with the Socialists. I was not a minister when anything fell apart and finally to the gentleman who mentioned me by name and last name, Neđo Jovanovic from the SPS. Mrs. Biserka Zivkovic was not the secretary of legislation when I was a premium but was at a time when it was Zoran Djindjic and it was an hour for her and my family, and you are ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21809	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21810	Article 103, 106 and 107. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the advertising of the Rules of Procedure is sought immediately after the injury. So, I wasn't talking about any defence minister, not one minister. I even think, when I was a participant on October 5th, I was self-critical of us, according to events, towards our leaders who were getting high, etc. I haven't spoken to any of my colleagues personally. I was talking about deviations. I quoted Socrates. It is not forbidden, nor should a reminder be given. Those who had nothing to do with that policy, which they only got good at, they recognized themselves. And, in the end, my fellow farmer has the right to be nervous, but you have to punish that anxiety in the Rules of Procedure. 108th and 109th except that my colleague is a farmer trying, he has the right to be my countryman or Arsicev, to choose Mitrovica or the Fireman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21811	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in voting day the National Assembly. (No) The word has a folk letter by Marinika Tepic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21812	I believe you've injured a member of 108 and 109. Article 108. - which predicts you to take care, at this point, while you are chairing the National Assembly on order at this session, and you are persistently causing a mess of your non-response or untimely reaction as to who it suits. You also hurt Article 109. - which is decadent in that no one is allowed to interfere with the speaker and thereby endangers his freedom of speech. For those of you who earn from your right, not only do they interfere with the speaker or you, but you treat them as a recommendation for your session management, and that's the biggest problem. So, instead of punishing them under Rule 109, you take it for granted as an executive order against you personally and without respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you endanger our rights, both to my colleague Zoran Zivkovic, and especially a colleague from the opposition part of this hall. I'm asking you not only not to do this anymore, but to turn your head a lot more often when people here report for the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. You deliberately stopped looking somewhere in the middle of the hall at one point and you don't want to turn around, even though we here insist that you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Don't do that, it's cheap, it's funny, it's stupid, it's not like you. I've already told you several times, there are so many witnesses in this room who see what's going on. Don't be afraid to apply the Rules of Procedure. Don't be afraid of your minister being here. Don't be afraid the SNS might initiate some measures towards you. Be worthy of the functions you perform and apply the Rules of Procedure properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21813	Thank you. As far as throwing goes, it's everywhere, so we're used to it. How come, for example, I've never heard a colleague Goran Ciric throw but on this side and how I hear a throw. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Yes, thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go, buddy, let's get the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21814	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have several laws on the agenda today that should actually be good and should help further develop institutions and systems in the Republic of Serbia and ultimately help Serbian citizens to meet some of their needs regarding the state administration. However, in order for these laws to be applied, it is necessary first to have strong and strong institutions. It is necessary to have a system in operation of the state, and then to upgrade the functioning of that system. You have done exactly the opposite in the past five years, speaking of reforms, which is that the institutions are broken down, there is no system and that today, exclusively for the needs of political, campaigning reasons, the Republic of Serbia is being run. About the law on the National Academy of Public Administration say a few things. When the State Administration Reform Strategy was adopted, five key principles were defined, and they are decentralisation, depoliticalisation, professionalisation, rationalisation and modernisation. Tell me, Minister, is the pre-modernization we're talking about today any of these key principles so far realized? It is not, and therefore this law will be just one attempt of intent, perhaps good to do something in Serbia in terms of the efficiency of the state administration. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is divided into several training programmes, a general training programme, special training programs, and what is most important to me to the management program. As far as general training programs are concerned, believe me, people who work today in state systems who are serious officials and how they do well mostly their jobs and these trainings exist. Some organize a permanent conference of cities and municipalities and other institutions. I have a serious question here – what about training for executives and how will the National Public Administration Academy handle it? First of all, you predicted 30 employees with 30,000,000 budgets, you predicted 186,000,000 just to equip the national academy. Today, we don't know how many people these 30 workers will need to train. I ask you if today you know, since previous Minister Ana Brnabic did not know the answer to how many total workers we have in the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, how busy is she after the ban on employment in the Republic of Serbia? How many agencies do we have? We do not know how many public services we have, although Mr Vukic announced in 2012 that over 60 different agencies and others, I quote, unnecessary institutions in Serbia will be shut down. We don't know today, so we can't even know how many students that national academy is going to have, whether it's 100,000, 200,000, 300,000, and how it's going to be realised in practice. Also, what is very important in the training of the guide is the question of whom we will train. In 2014, you passed a law that envisioned the selection of managers by competition. In 2016, the new Law on Public Enterprises, which also said that by March 2017 all Heads of State institutions must be elected in competitions and competitions must be completed. What happened? From October 2016 to March 2017, 317 employees, i.e. officials, of which only 10 in competitions, were appointed, all others in V.D. Serbia is still in V.D. condition. And whom you will train, those you will exchange for political purposes every three months, unless they are someone who executes the party orders of their officials. In fact, the European Commission's report said that over 60% of state officials were appointed, absolutely contrary to the legal provisions under political influence. Therefore, if you wanted this law against which I would have had nothing bad, if all this had been done before, you would have implemented it, but you must first build a system of institutions that you have destroyed and a system in the functioning of the Republic, i.e. the state administration in Serbia. As far as the e-document bill is concerned, I can't say it's bad. I would like that law to live and make it easier for our citizens not to have six months to wait, as was the practice so far, to get to the health book, to wait as they once did in the visa lines to get to the passport or to the ID card. I'd like to simplify our businesses' communication with the state administration, but all of this can't be enough evidence for me today that this law will do so, because we've had countless laws passed in previous years that haven't been applied. We had promises from the Office of Quick Answers which is much simpler than this law, so it didn't come to life, so I don't know what's going to happen to this law that I want to support and I don't mind, even though I'm the opposition to saying it's a good legal proposal. In the end, what is my biggest dilemma is why 12 months is the deadline for the adoption of 17 sublegal acts, and by then, in those 12 months, we will use the sublegal acts of the previous law that already existed in the electronic document and the e-signature law, so that we can say that the law will not come into full effect, rather than in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21815	The word has a national emissary of Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21816	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic form and was proposed right after public debate and respected expert opinions. This is a good time to bring our legal system and order in line with the order in this area in force in EU countries, and this is an opportunity for us to regulate the system according to the reputation of developed countries and form a system that will be monitored by EU countries. This proposal offers truly flexible solutions, which are accompanied by technological achievements. We are witnessing that technology is really developing at a dizzy rate and we need to take a step with the world and build trust in the electronic system. The intention is to reduce the use of documents that are in paper form and to allow for greater accessibility of data, as well as easier search of documents and ultimately, effective exercise of the rights of our citizens. All of this will lead to more efficient and faster business and savings, both citizens and local self-government and economic operators themselves. The work of the public authorities will be more efficient access to services, easier and safer, except that all procedures will be shortened and accelerated, savings will also be achieved in terms of paper consumption and transport costs. Of course, in order for the system to work, it was necessary to provide some preconditions, prepare the databases and connect them eventually. We did a great job by the end of 2016, so after seven years, all the bases of the Motherbook, the Book of Married and the Book of the Dead were transferred into electronic form, and it was indeed a huge job that our country had done, and that was precisely a prerequisite for the General Administrative Procedure Act to transform into a citizen service. Now we're at 90% of the data in the parent's books in electronic form. Together with the MUP, it has been working to transfer citizenship into electronic form and since January 2018, there will be a central register that will indeed be at the service of citizens. When we talk about the transmission of data into electronic form, I really have to give an example of the municipality from which I come, and this is the municipality of Trstenik, where in 2016, we were one of the last municipalities by effect, only 5% of the data was transferred into electronic form and we were really cited as a negative example, because in those seven years we managed only 5% to transmit it into electronic form. The arrival of SNS, coalition partners and taking over mandates provided computers, the internet connection was provided for the transmission of these data, and in just a few months we managed to do what it was for years and what our predecessors didn't do, so 80% of the data of the parent books were transferred into electronic form. Due to this up-to-date and hard work and all our employees, we are repeatedly praised by Ms. Ana Brnabić, the current prime minister, and we are really trying, not only in this area, but also in other areas to change the impression of our municipality, to send a different picture and a different message. When it comes to the law itself and the newspaper it brings, the ultimate goal is to equate business with a classical and business electronic means and so far it has been seen that, when it comes to electronic signature, only 5% of citizens are using this possibility and that there have been certain difficulties in activating this service, and now it is envisaged that the document is signed via a mobile phone, so the passwords and codes and the aim is to equate both the electronic and paper document and conversion from one to the other and that the scanned document has the same evidence power. The accent is also placed on the security guarantee of the validity of the documents preserved, and I am sure that this proposal will lead to the desired effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21817	Thank you, colleague Turk. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to say two things about two laws concerning the National Academy and the training of civil servants at all. The first thing is the state in which these people work and develop and give some kind of highway to the citizens. The other thing is, that risks arise in the implementation process, and the law is what it is and what it really needs to pay attention to when it is implemented. I don't have any excessive illusions that amendments can be amended. At this point, we have a public sector that is what it is. Different governments have designed it differently, but if we wanted to add it to two key characteristics, anyone who runs the municipality or the ministry or agency, when you ask him what the job situation is, and he'll tell you, I have 20% of the people missing and 20% of the people surplus. It's one reality that exists and hasn't been solved yet. Another thing that has already been certain, most public sector employees except in agencies that have their original incomes will say their salaries are extremely low and that is correct. We've had problems with one major deficit. The deficit's been cut off just like it's been cut down enough. The public sector is essentially cut off with one axe, and at this point in time when we do not have some high public deficit, it is time to think and to use some more elegant means and to see what can be done, that these people who work in the public sector and with such incomes or which are increased are more satisfied, and satisfied people give better highways, both to municipal administrations, so to citizens, so to the ministries and to all those who are in contact with the state of Serbia at all levels. At this point, you have a lot of games in the public sector when, for example, in some community, which is something that probably ministers should know, for example. They decide knowingly to raise their salaries illegally, and that the person who signed it pays the fine means to raise as much as it's not a crime, but a crime, and the black funds help him to pay the fine. Considering how often control comes into the municipalities, it goes, more or less painlessly. And a lot of these things you have, like games with stimulations that go round and round and round and round. So this is your indicator that the first underlying problem is the height of the salary. But we have other problems that exist, and they refer to money as usually not everything when you do business, because if money were a key factor, most of us wouldn't even be sitting in the congregation. We've got a lot more profitable jobs. So there's something that's more than that. It's one of the things that this Academy needs to respond to, in general, education, perfecting public officials. I have carefully read both the law and the amendments to this second law. They have some things that are really commendable. The law states which indicators are when a red light is simply lit and when it is said – we must intervene with training. However, there is one problem. We also have indicators, but at this point we don't know, and later on, I'm going to say why it is, why these indicators showed up. The other thing is, it's very good that we have training programs for executives. It's very often neglected, but executives are people who need to know how to work with other people. The fact is, when you tell someone who is hierarchical under you and you are not in the army, you will do it because I tell you, or because I have power, or because you will see your god! People don't respond well to it and often it's either a quiet boycott or a work under every performance. Both in many municipalities and in many ministries in Serbia, people complain about communication that they do not understand each other, that people chosen politically do not understand those who are technocrats and who work in public administration, that public administration does not understand eternally, simply, that there is no interpersonal expertise, that people understand each other and that they are better managers. It's very good that it's taken care of. It is also very important that people train for the EU accession process. Our future house. There will be a lot of work ahead of us, and people need to know how many complex tasks will be ahead of them, starting from the lowest to the highest levels. It's a reality and it's a good thing it's meant to be. Those are the things that deserve praise, I can't say that's bad. What are the great challenges that we in the basic public sector have human resources management that comes down to – contracts, competitions, vacations, retirement and the like. You know that yourself. Most of you call you the basic management of human resources. However, in most complex systems, the state is the most complex system that exists and is extremely important. It's very important how human resources develop, what direction they go, what career paths, how people motivate. As people are motivated by the changes that are about to happen, especially with small wages that are reality, they can't change overnight. How are they motivated? We have a problem here. We don't have programs, not that we don't have people who can communicate knowledge, experience, skills and motivate people, but that we don't have human resources managers in municipalities or in most ministries, public institutions that know what the problems of employees are. We could make a diagnosis, and if you have a diagnosis, then you know what you do. If you don't know what caused the indicators listed in the law, the intervention won't be successful. You can send them on a lot of training programs, and if these training programs don't solve their key problems, and what's the assumption that the Academy would be successful -- that you have managers who know human resources, that you have a profile of every public administration employee, and that you know, in fact, what the problems are and what direction these people need to develop and why they're not interested in doing their job at some point, or they're very interested. People like that are even more valuable. There's another problem that can come up, and I'd love to hear the answer. At this point, you have more training providers. You have a SUK that started providing training, you have bilateral donors, fantastic training programs you have, e.g. GIZ had a lot of them, for example. EVERY Swiss friend of ours has a fantastic real project, and I'm not going any further. So these are some training programs that exist. How do we avoid overlapping and best use our resources? We have training programs at the Ministry of Finance for Internal Auditors. So, a lot of training and improvements in human resources in various places. How are we going to coordinate this to do the most because we don't have enough resources and enough quality people in our country? Also, another important question is talent. How do you keep your talents in the public sector? People who are above average good, and the situation is what it is, you can't give them much material, but you can give them the opportunity to develop and not degrade logic. There are many cases in Serbia that major injustices have indeed been made against talented people. You all know in the local environments that very often, when dirty water was thrown out, fantastic people were thrown out, just because they were suspected of not being alike. Sometimes it really is to ensure logic and ensure that the whole public sector works better. Finally, you have examples of something similar that works in the region. Many of the ministers, of the assistant ministers and people highly listed in public sectors, were in RESPI training. You have that example in Denilovgrad for the whole region. You can pull your experiences out of this case and we can probably, if we do it professionally, do it a good academy, but we have to satisfy these preconditions, otherwise we won't achieve maximum, be in a country like this that has survived many crises and some things that aren't good and not get away with it is a great sin against citizens. All in all, the same possibility has also been opened, it is known to open up a large academy in the Plandište, to train people returning to the region of returnees and Western Europe and migrants. It's also a great opportunity to not only dress and integrate people, but also make money. These are examples that can be good and that are a chance, but above all, some preconditions have to be created, and I'm kind of worried that this is going to happen. I'm not going to get into that moment my colleagues used to say. I speak as if the best possible situation is about implementation. All in all, the concept is fine, but there are indiscretions and these indiscretions can ruin a concept that can be very good. Perhaps in the end I should quote the person who has the most power in Serbia, at this point and who is crucially shaping Serbia... Yes, Ana Brnabić, she is, who has spoken many times about it and that a large building is being built in this country, which will rise to the sky and will remain for the next generations and will continue to build it. You, if you don't have bricks based on which they got solid and durable, which is your public sector and there are trained people because knowledge drives the world. I'm afraid that tower won't grow high. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21819	Thank you, colleague Stevanović. The word has a folk MP Jela Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21820	The Honorable chairman, distinguished ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will support the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the day to vote on the laws we are deciding on. Jake's local self-government and the way to these reforms are of paramount importance, so the laws ahead of us, which are in favour of our citizens, i.e. the user of services by public administration, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will always support it. I hope that all public administrations will function in the future in favour of the citizens, and it is up to us to support these laws that will strengthen the way of these reforms. I use the opportunity to commend the work of the resolution ministries, as well as the ministers themselves, the laws that you presented in the opening presentation, speak in favour of professionalisation and depolitisation of public administration, and we all know that it takes time, knowing the situation on the ground, to pass sublegal acts on these laws, especially when it comes to the Law on the National Academy. The draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration will establish a principle of professional employment, which implies that the candidate for the job must, above all, have expertise and knowledge in order to carry out the job in the future. Employment based on expertise is a reflection of democracy, and that is why we are passing laws that will reflect and cultivate it. Minister Ruzic visited many municipalities and cities in the previous period. He was in Racine County, which is of special importance to me, and it gives confidence that he has equal access to all local self-governments. The work of some municipalities has been praised, some have also criticised, but I hope that in the future, they will give equal chances to all cities and municipalities on that path of progress, regardless of whether they have achieved satisfactory results in any previous period. So, this new law on the National Academy, which will allow personnel, not only employees of local self-government, but also in the Republic authorities, will allow all cities and municipalities to have equal chances of progress. Since I have been directly involved for many years in these training activities with representatives of local self-government, associations and citizens, I know very well about field work, which says in support of the need to pass a law on the National Academy, which will allow for greater expertise, but also the uniform knowledge of public administration employees. This will allow accelerated development and motivation and help local self-government, as the fact is that some local self-governments have not been involved in many support programmes. The ministry of state administration and local self-government has had a large number of support programmes so far. However, due to lack of expertise, knowledge, but also due to untimely applications, they were not included in any programme, and there is a large number of "Exchange" programs, here is now the "Exchange 5" program. However, just because they did not step in with the time of the first programmes, they could not apply later to some new programs. I believe that just training these personnel will allow all local self-governments equally and in the same way to go towards that path of progress. I would also ask Minister Ruzic - will there be specific criteria and equal access for all employees in addition to these general and special training training for staff training, or should local self-government be explained whether they will have an obligation to submit applications for employees and for their further education and training? We are all aware of the fact that only good and motivated personnel, adequately deployed, will ensure the efficiency needed for wider social development, and this will just be provided by this National Academy. This bill defines both the programme and the education at the republic and the local level, and the most significant news is that education will also be mandatory for the highest-ranking officials - ministers, municipal presidents, municipal chiefs. The aim of this law is for Serbia to have a professional, efficient and kind public administration, a single database and personnel that will be able to respond to modern and accelerated flows of modern administration. The law will include all local self-governments whose human resources management has never been a topic and has often been neglected. Unlike local self-government in the Serbian government, there is a Staff Management Service, which has proved to be very effective and meaningful. I also believe that by introducing the National Academy, working with employees in local self-government will show the same result. I believe that while we are about to work hard to change our relationship to work and access to this job, we are slowly becoming aware that an efficient and service public administration is becoming something that needs to be standard, independent of any political change. All that has been done so far in human resources management has been a pre-accession step in the realisation of the complex objective of establishing an organised training system for all categories of public administration employees. The academy will help local self-government function in the same way on the same legal basis. It is necessary to transform local self-government into modern, capable, economical, responsible and just. I believe that in this way you will give equal opportunity to train staff through various programmes, which there is enough now to apply in a timely and valid manner to a number of funds, resolution ministries and EU funds precisely because the municipalities have lost a number of resources in front of their eyes due to insufficient expertise and guidance towards such flows. In the end, I will say once again that the JS parliamentary group will support the laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21821	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21822	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, Mr. Ruzic, Mr. Djokovic, Minister Ljajic, what is strange to us is whether you brought or considered the state of public administration in Serbia when you proposed this law. Can we solve all these problems without this law? I don't think we can, but also, I don't think we're going to solve it, these problems won't be solved even if we adopt your bill, and if at the end of the day the National Academy of Professional Training in Public Administration and live with its 30 employees at the Academy. I think the problem is that, first of all, your predecessor, and the current prime minister left complete chaos in the public administration. I think the condition that you inherited is ten years behind the situation since 2012, the day the SNS came into power. The results of the period, when it comes to public administration, were also discussed by the president, the current, the Republic of Serbia, commending the minister who at the time, during those four years, and led the state administration and local self-government. What is the biggest problem is the motivation of people who work, who are the 700,000 employees, among whom there are great people. There are great people who are educated, who are capable, who know what is responsible for doing their job and their duties. Among these 700,000 people are those who work in public administration for 20, 10 or 30 years, do their job responsibly every day, but spend 30 years every day at the same table, in the same office, and they simply have no motive to move on or to change something, on themselves, in their environment or in their workplace. This motivation problem is disastrous in Serbia, because you have a situation that is reduced wages. Salaries in the public sector have been cut. They refer to the very people we're talking about here today and in which you're trying in some way to influence your proposal. But it's these people who have a pay cut, it's not worth their work. No one is absolutely taking care of their effect, nor is it worth their effect. Now, how are we going to motivate these people to really through your proposal tomorrow be people who are going to ask their superiors, of their work some greater than they've given in some previous period, no way. We have a situation that after the ban on employment, according to the SNS Minister, Mr Krstic, the 50,000 party officials, or party members, received a job in the public administration, 50,000, after the ban on public sector employment, 50,000 party books received arrests. It is no wonder, Mr. Minister, when they say that only SNS lives better in these five years than all other citizens of Serbia, because it is obvious that only they are allowed to have a job in public administration, and now through this bill we are trying to teach them something to do. Then it often happens that those who are responsible, honest and safe do their job, who know why they are in these positions, who came through various competitions, you kind of humiliate them, because you put them in the same order with those who came through various aunts, aunts in their jobs, and they don't know anything at all. They've even become the manager of the chamber. And you, I'm pretty sure you know that and that you've met the current situation. When you're talking about your bill, I'm asking you to think about those cops, about the Ministry, for example. Internal affairs, those professionals who do their job with honor and integrity in the Serbian uniform, have hundreds and hundreds of people in their canteens, some girls, boys, nobody knows who they are or where they came from. In restaurants, in "29. November," they can't come to lunch or breakfast with those new people who come every day, although there is a ban on employment. More than 250 employees after the ban on employment are only in this home, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where those who also got a job in the competition are asking themselves why they studied fairly, finished colleges. No wonder our young people are finally leaving the country. Public administration, the public sector is a picture and opportunity and the face of Serbia with which you communicate, first of all, towards some young people who will decide on how you arrange the system whether to stay in this country or not. Why would someone motivated want to spend 30 years in public administration, but provided they join the SNS? He'd rather leave the country, especially if he was worth learning and if he'd earned his degree honestly. We have a situation where we have a shortage of employees in many places. Take an example of Paracino municipality. The President of the Municipality, for example, He doesn't have an architect in his administration. Someone in Leskovac doesn't have someone for public procurement, someone in Subotica doesn't have a man who does some other work and has extra employees. How are we going to transfer them from one municipality to another or from the city to the city, so we're going to transfer someone from the National Assembly to Paracino so they can go to work there every day or move there? I think it's irresponsible to that human capital that owns our society or our people. It is our citizens who, with their knowledge and skill, represent the greatest wealth in this country. If we treat them this way, if that architect in Paracino can't come to work because the SNS hired 50,000 people in the public administration, then we don't send a good message to future generations. We have Branislav Paunovic from Starar, a senior SNS official, who is responsible for poisoning over 150 children in Belgrade's primary schools, 150 young people have been poisoned. Now how is this National Academy going to teach him, here he writes, about ethics, and the integrity of employees... How is he going to take an ethics course as a senior SNS official who's parallel, watch out for the state administration, have a business that in two years had more traffic for 15 million? How and in what way? How did the Anti-Corruption Agency let him do that? It's a question again for the authorities. Well, it's an honor to the D.A.'s office for acting urgently on that matter. What is very important, how will the academy and the ethics of Mr Branislav Paunovic's academy now learn when it is due to profits, which is obvious, damaged, over 150 children are in various hospitals, on home treatment, because they have poisoned themselves? I'm asking you about basic ethics and morality, which not only should exist in this academy, but it's part of home education, it's part of some state institutions, it's part of some basic political morality that we're all looking for. It obviously doesn't exist in Serbia. Why am I telling you all this? I'm talking about protecting integrity. I'm talking to you about it because we're having a daily phone call from the president of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly, as you've had the opportunity to see in the past few days, has humiliated the secretary general in front of the entire nation, and I think it's very bad. I'm telling you again, I'm saying it, believe me, not because I'm here... (President: Mr Bozovic, just on the subject, please. It's not about the president of the National Assembly. I don't want to get in a fight with anyone. It's not my theme at all, it's not an idea. That's what I'm saying because tomorrow we'll get into a situation where Maja Gojkovic, for example, slaps Mr. Martinovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21823	Wait, please. Let's get on with the subject. It's not the theme of the President of the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21824	That's what I'm saying for my colleagues, because I care about them. You never know what can happen. What's very important is that you, I want to tell you, Mr. Ruzic, made a nice move at the beginning of your term, and I think he's been accepted and taken, even if it's personal from me, I'm giving you a confession... Since digitisation is at work and we are at a time of digitisation, and as our prime minister stands for it, I think you chose a good gift when you bought her a non-boiling, but an electronic coffee machine, and that's in line with the Government of the Republic of Serbia's programme. Well, good for you. Please just one thing to give her some capsules for a much stronger caffeine and more caffeine, since apparently Serbia stands... (Serb Progressive Party emissaries scold. )......................................................................................................... And we don't have absolute luxury, we don't have time because the world and the region are going at a light speed compared to us. Ivan Manojlovic: You with a little cocaine. ( b) Caffeine. If you can calm the gentleman from across the street who's nervous, but if the public administration leads in this way in some future period, Serbia will be left with nothing, these jobs will have no one to pay, with all this in Subotica, the mayors who rip out the throats of the citizens, we won't be able to move on. Last year, with that ending, 59,000 citizens left Serbia permanently. This year, I mean, you'll meet that prediction that there will be up to 80,000 people. I think it's very devastating for our society, for a Serbia who wants to become a modern country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21825	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21826	Can't "yellow company" seem to realize that the state can manage normally in accordance with regulations, in accordance with some laws, not banditically as they seem to only know how. She can't understand it, so she mentions things, like the mention of the National Assembly, or the mention of some ethics, is that what it was? They have no moral right to do so, nor do they have any active legitimacy for it. To do things in the Rules of Procedure, it's obvious and easily verifiable, and to ask these things here someone who, not judging, did not suppress such phenomena in his ranks, but rewarded them, do not be offended. Was Paytić Bojan personally in charge of the Bodrum vote? Did he fake the quorum, mess with the cards? How did that end? By suffering any political or any consequences? No, you promoted a man. They promoted him, forced him to the top, and he became director of the "yellow company" thanks to these skills, and they will now wonder if anything can or can't. Where's Novakovic? What does Minister Dulic do to them these days? This man, Paunovic, mentioned earlier, neatly reported companies that have an Anti-Corruption Agency. Someone doesn't have to be lazy, so he can put two click effort into seeing something, and he has to have the ability to see and process these things so he can deal with them. That man was arrested last night, and you know why? There are these rules and these laws, which could never have happened during the "yellow" cartel. Did the current director ever explain to them, one million and a half euros worth of land, categories of pasture, where did he get it? From the minister's salary, perhaps from the MP's? Did he explain 300,000 euros worth of apartment? From the minister's salary or from the MP's? Three hundred thousand euros in savings. From the minister's salary or from the MP's? Is there any explanation for the senseless savagery, or is it all going to explain the vampire tycoon Dragan Gilas, so let's see that too?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21827	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21828	Article 103. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Chairman, if you had warned the second or Mr. Zivkovic and taken away the word in the first part of his performance, we would not have had this development of the discussion that we had out of the agenda. I ask you to all of them, whether they're a position or opposition, if you step aside from the agenda to take away their word. I can't... Zoran Krasic throws. Comrade Krasic, wait a minute. I can't understand that in one man there can be as much evil as in Mr. Balsha. It's unspeakable. Now you mention, Miss Brnabic, who isn't here, and you say she left the mess. How can you not be ashamed? What kind of gentleman are you? What does Mrs. Brnabic have to do with this subject that we are discussing? Second, you say we hired 50,000. You're flirting. I'm now saying, you when you were...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21829	Comrade Yokic, I beg your pardon, this is now turning into a replica. (Mihailo Jotic throws.) ) Thank you, but I'm not going to let any damage to the Rules of Procedure turn into a replica. Thank you for your suggestion and of course we'll continue on the agenda. We'll try, of course. The word has the agenda of Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21830	Thank you. The chairman, the distinguished representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, well, the chairman, I would paraphrasise the thought of one that the killer always returns to the scene of the crime. That's what I'm saying because the previous speaker, who's been doing all sorts of stupid things here, has lamented here above the fate of the state administration, the public administration, and he's just coming from the ranks of the party, which, while she was in power in Serbia, literally destroyed, reverseed the state and public administration. She carried out the most terrifying partization of the state administration. Remember that period, it is the period until 2012, when neither the cleaning woman in any public enterprise or institution could be employed unless she had a DS membership card. She's literally not a cleaning lady. And he's giving us some sermons here today. You should have warned him. You should have told him not to tell the truth. What was the extent of their authority and what was their programme regarding the improvement of the state administration? By exercising power in local self-governments, one of them had been in power for decades, the Vracar City Municipality, the only thing they could do, was bring party personnel. You know what they were doing? They've promoted one model to the senselessness of complete. In the course of a calendar year. name more than 40 assistants of the city council president by rotating them for three months or less. It's the reach of their government. It was their programme to improve the state administration. Please, Mr. Minister, don't pay much attention to the criticisms that came from the previous speaker. It's a man who stands for something today, and he's already criticizing it tomorrow. Take a look at this, please, Mr. Minister. Did you know that just three years ago, in 2014, this same Balša Bozovic, as my esteemed colleague Orlic and tycoon Dragan Gilas promoted a music fountain in Slavija, similar to what we have today? Promoting and talking about that is not knowing what an achievement it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21831	Comrade Markovic, go back to the National Academy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21832	I'll be right back, just to show you, it's very important for the citizens, so the color is pictures, look at their idea. Is that similar to what we have in Slavia today? Yeah, but today's not good because the SNS did this. It is true that in previous years, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have implemented a rationalisation of the number of employees, thus making a significant contribution, to say, to savings throughout the public sector. That, among other things, made it possible for the country, so let me express myself, easier, among other things, and get over this pre-bankrupt situation that we found. So the previous speaker of those years will remember. It's 2012. We were literally in front of bankruptcy. We haven't had any pensions to pay off recently. Empty cash register. That's what they left us, but he ran away from the O.R. so he won't hear what I have to say. What's necessary, what's left to do, what we have to do right now is a better organisation of the business itself and a better structure of the employees themselves in the state administration. For such a thing, we need further reforms, simplification of all procedures, implementation of new technologies, above all the digitisation that we have already mentioned here, then education and increasing efficiency. The previous prime minister, today's prime minister, but as I see it, the current minister, Mr Ruzic, has been determined to implement what we have outlined, which is the transformation of the state administration. What I would point out in this respect is that full implementation of the public administration reform strategy is necessary. By applying the strategy, by fully applying the public administration reform strategy, we will have this more efficient and better state or as they like to say - public administration and cheaper state administration, which is very important. The General Administrative Procedure Act allowed the administration to finally become a citizen service, which it should have been, which was also the SNS pre-election programme since 2012, to finally become a citizen service. This provides adequate treatment for every individual, every citizen. The most different fees that existed, different beliefs, performances, etc. were abolished, and for the first time we came into the situation that when obtaining different documents, which had to be walked, so to speak, obtained, today officials do so in the official way instead of citizens. These are steps that establish what we call an effective public administration, and these are steps that we have as a result of so far's work by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Today, we can proudly say that Serbia is slowly but certainly getting the outlines of a modern state, a modern, orderly state, among other things, by connecting the largest state registers. What I would particularly point out in that sense is their transmission into electronic form. So more than 145 state administration institutions and local self-government are currently providing more than 800 different services on the Electronic Administration portal according to the data I have. In addition, there are numerous administrative reliefs that, I say, facilitate the business of business operators, and I note that they were all brought to the Ministry of State Administration's initiative and local self-government. In the context of all this said, these current draft laws are a natural clue in the process of transforming state administration, and it is good that the Serbian government has set as one of the priorities for the establishment of the National Academy of Professional Training in Public Administration. This will for the first time introduce compulsory education of civil servants at all levels and all civil servants from republican to local level will pass a unique, standardised standard of education, all in order to professionalise civil servants. This is an important segment of the development of human resources in the public administration, as well as the achievement of the overall economic objectives. I could now continue to tax the rest of the ministry's results, but I find the minister simply more invited in that sense, and we've heard some of it in his opening statement. For all the reasons I've stated, I'd like to invite us to support these bill proposals in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21833	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21834	Before I begin the discussion of the proposed laws, I feel the need to give someone of my own personal attention once more, to share a personal vision of the work of this house with all of you. Following the transmissions of congregation meetings in earlier times, I was always attracted to them, and I always appreciated the sharp polemics, temperamental and bile debates, intellectual outwitting. Unfortunately, there's less of that in our congregation today. Today, there are many more qualifications that are not to be heard and cannot be part of the public speech in this House. Countless flat, superficial, threatening, offensive and other qualifications on our left and on our right can be heard today. I express my satisfaction that I belong to the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, which is as serious as possible and dedicated only to the work of this parliament. So much for that. As with countless times before, we have a recognizable manner of government work in these laws – to submit proposals to the National Assembly for laws to be passed by emergency procedure. We make laws. The laws make up the system. It's a big and serious job, and big things are done slowly. It's not an emergency procedure. On the other hand, there are countless facts that fuel the suspicion that when something is done in a hurry or in an emergency procedure, there is always a certain suspicion that there is something that wants to be covered up, that something wants to get away with, that something simply avoids a wider public, transparent debate. Speaking of the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration and Amendments and the additions of the Law on Civil Servants, we notice a paradox. We all agree, there's a need to arrange this area but it wasn't done in a good way. I will remind you of the words of the apostle Paul who says that good, if it is not done in a good way, is not good. And we are in favour of regulating the state administration, for its efficiency, for rewarding and promoting civil servants, for perfecting employees, for all that is now missing from the state administration, and these are: competence, legality and integrity in performing specific functions, activities, tasks from established work and competence. The idea of establishing the National Public Administration Academy is borrowed and imposed from the EU. It is part of the long-standing tradition and practice of some European countries. It is another European child to be raised in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia does not know the "national academy" institute. It is another novelty that is not a product of real need and necessary celery, but one in a series of requests for reconciliation with the EU, and again by emergency procedure. The government needs, above all, marketing, to make everything it does sound, big and historic. In that light, we see the need for an executive to educate the National Academy of Public Administration. The adoption of the law on the National Academy of Public Administration, even if only as an organisational act, is illogical, excessive, or at least inadequate. It's not hard to explain why, and there's more to it. Originally, the academy is a high school of science or art, which the National Academy of Public Administration, absolutely, obviously, is not. In the state administration there are educational institutions, type of military and police academy, where knowledge and skills are acquired and where appropriate profiles for the needs of the state are educated. None of these academys have been called national, although they are essentially national. And the Judicial Academy has no national designation, and it's part of the judicial system and that branch of government. The National Academy of Public Administration under the Bill has an element of education, accreditation, programmes, scholarships, learning from working relationships, lecturers and the like. The point is in the law which is set out in the reasoning – the training of state officials for the jobs they are already doing, and for this the issue of needs and certificates is not required by the National Academy, not 30 employees, not a new building of a million and a half euro, not a programme council, nor a permanent programming commission with additional permanent payments, nor a reference to co-operation with other publicly recognised education and training organizers. Just modernized government service is enough to perfect and manage personnel. It's good in article 18. Proposal for a law that the work of the National Public Administration Academy will be carried out by the staff management service until its constitution. We believe that all of this was enough, if it must be, a modest and adequate name – a public administration centre or a public administration promotion centre as a government body or service. The choice of programme performers can also be not a small problem. Everyone will want to push their own, many will run for their own right to an extra reward. The explanation for the adoption of laws on the National Academy is at the level of the quality of the basic idea, which means inconclusive. For example, it is proposed to pass laws by emergency procedure since its non-administeration could in this way cause adverse consequences for the work of authorities and organisations in the public administration system. We've heard it many times already. If the proposer's intention, the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government was to establish a central national institution for professional training in public administration, then its position could be strengthened by the content given in the draft law on civil servants. The accommodation of the material element of the improvement of the state of the system under the Law on the National Academy would not lose the purpose of professional training of civil servants. For management, it's much more important how something is arranged, not where it's arranged. Even the two proposed laws do not regulate the overall and unique function of professional training of employees. The arguments in favour of such an approach are set out in Articles 2 and 3 of the amendment and addition of the Law on civil servants, where a general training and training programme of the executives is adopted by the Government on a proposal from the National Academy, as well as the selection and accreditation of lecturers, mentors and coaches. Mr. Minister, whatever your explanation for this term, as a linguist, I have to intervene, I've really been distracted by this word of foreign origin embedded by our law. Although our language is native Serbian and Lexie and Semantic poorer than some other languages, our greatest linguist professor. Aleksandar Belić spoke of the language as a living matter that is constantly developing, improving, enriching, accepting foreigners and loans from other languages, but was still very skeptical when using the word of foreign origin. He felt that words of foreign origin could only be used exceptionally, only when necessary. And is that the case here? But some of our early Europeans would sooner give up their language just to get their hands on EU membership. The European Union is like a train to you. The first person to get in the car will be able to sit down, maybe have a good seat. The last one in, he won't be able to sit, he won't have a good place, if he even pushes in the car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21835	Thank you, fellow Boyic. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21836	Dear Vice-President, honourable fellow MPs, respected members of the government, by submitting a set of public administration laws to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption, is a confirmation of the government's stated intentions to give the issue of reform in this area full priority in the future period and to further improve the government's segment in all its visions. The well-organised authorities of the administration are one of the preconditions for effective state policy management. Thus, these bodies are at the same time a mirror of the state itself and look at the state in which one state and society are located. It is a natural urge to work constantly, to make them as better and efficient as possible in their work, because it benefits both the state itself and each of us citizens. The Law on the National Academy of Public Administration provides for the establishment of this new institution, which would have a specialised competence in organising education in public administration bodies. In particular, the Academy would have more competences, but several of the most important would be those relating to the collection and processing of data related to the improvement of public administration work, accreditation of programmes, training and executioners of these trainings and the publication of professional publications. The question is, is it necessary to form an institution like this with this work circle? I believe that this was necessary, because experience has shown that so far the training programmes in the public administration have differed significantly from the organs to the organs, both by their size and frequency, and by their quality. Now the new Academy in this area will have a significant role to play in organising these programmes, which should achieve their unification and overall higher quality. Also, in Article 6. The bill provides for certain conditions for obtaining accreditation for these trainings with regard to space and equipment performers, which should again guarantee that these activities will be dealt with by serious organisations. The Academy will have two professional bodies, a Programme Council and a permanent programming committee to deal with professional programming issues. Of course, the work of such an institution will still require additional financial resources, but from the proponents' explanation, I think it is seen that they are not and will not be excessively high, especially as part of the employees will be taken over from the already existing government management service. This legislative proposal is closely linked to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants. Its laws on the National Academy are effectively linked to the Law on Civil Service Officers, i.e. to regulate the area of professional training. The proposed new Article 97a provides for cases where there is, in particular, a need for professional training and, if new regulations are adopted, it finds that the body is ineffectively operating by being late in the adoption of acts or acts, often being returned to the inspection procedure and that these needs will be determined on the Programme Council. National academias that will thus have a certain supervisory role to play over the work of these bodies. It is also important that these supplements are recognized and the training programme of the executives, which I think should be a priority, because organ leaders need to give a personal example of the application of this law. Although it is not directly related to the public administration, it represents one, so to speak, a general legal act that treats several areas of our social and private life. The proposal for a new law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business is also a significant legislative proposal, which should make it even stronger and more decisive for us to step into the field of eGovernment and thus eliminate various types of waiting in order to achieve our rights. I believe that this law will also make it important for our state authorities to provide adequate and reliable computer equipment, to educate the services here and here, but also for citizens to properly explain to them the benefits that they could have with the application of this law, so that they could actually live in practice. Honorable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the PUPS Parliamentary Group believes that an effective state administration is the key of a regulated state, and the state is the foundation of an orderly society, and will therefore give its full support in the voting day for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21837	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21838	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today we have four laws on the programme, and I will talk about the bill on the National Academy of Public Administration and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Servants. In 2014, when Mrs Ana Brnabic came to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, reforms of the state administration began. Namely, this is necessary, because our state administration is a huge apparatus, a slow, very expensive maintenance, it's expensive for the public. That is why reforms are necessary, and that is also the case in the 2020 Strategy. The reforms are inevitable and I am sure that Mr Ruzic, who is now at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, will continue this way. They respected us earlier as for these two laws, and in general, the way in which the Serbian Progressive Party leads with its coalition partners this beautiful country, to hire staff, that we have hired an enormous number of personnel. That's just not true. If someone belongs to this Assembly, if he reads the laws, he knows that in 2013, we passed the Employment Prohibition Act or, in the right form, the Law establishing the maximum number of employees in the public sector. So in 2013, we did not fire, on the contrary, with a natural outflow, a good social programme and requalification, there were fewer 37,900 people in the state administration, by the end of 2016 80,000 people, but a good social programme, a natural outflow, and not as in 2008, 400,000 people were fired. Because of the poor privatisation of 528 companies, they were naked, so naked again, they were returned to the state. We're doing a completely different policy, socially responsible policy. As for these laws, it should be noted that the savings were only 43m euros in 2013 and by the end of 2016 80m euros, then 100m euros. Please, for 100 million euros you can make 100 kilometers of fantastic roads, you can make a mass of schools, kindergartens, renovate hospitals. Bravo for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is how it is done. Also, a General Administrative Procedure Act has been adopted, transforming the state administration into a service of citizens. Finally, citizens need to understand that all the authorities, from the local self-government unit through local self-government, city administration and state administration, are all citizens. This law is also passed in order for people to realize that when they go to any institution or institution, they have to have a complete service, so that there is not yet a famous sentence – I lack another paper. So by 2012, we refused hundreds of good investors, which never happens again. Today, you get that paper from one month to three months, and there will be that it will be won in 10 days. What is still to be pointed out is that there is a big difference between the National Academy and higher education institutions. Namely, the National Academy is not a higher education institution, and it should be understood that people don't object, that this is just one kind of education. What we are looking for in these laws is – professionalization, rationalization, friendly staff. Staff, i.e. people working in institutions, must know that they are implementing the laws that we are getting from the EU, because we are a country of EU accession. Then, they have to know they're doing projects. So many millions are waiting for us in the EU and various world funds, we need to learn how to work projects. So another example of good practice. What I'm going to mention, as far as eGovernment is concerned, which is what the Government insists and I agree with that if we don't join digitalization and technological development, we're going to be in a serious problem. This is the 21st century, the market economy of governments everywhere in the world, or we'll be with them one modern state or we'll be stuck for years. Our goal is to be here first. What else do you say? The e-Government is inevitable because, imagine, the following year since 1 January 2018, the systematization, i.e. the association of six large registers, begins. You'll have everything in one place. There will be both the home books and the PIO and the Ministry of the Interior and everyone else. With one click, press the button, you will have complete documentation! Bravo for the Government of the Republic of Serbia! I can talk for another half hour, these are four laws, but I don't want to, because there are so many speakers behind me. Thank you for your attention. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the bill's proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21839	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21840	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers and fellow ministers, we've heard so much in these two days, many details, many of those things that new ones bring to us laws that are on the agenda and, without any dilemma, I will support them in the voting day, because I am sure that this society and this country need comprehensive reforms, from foundation to roof. So we have to change our country completely, reform it. That is what the Serbian Progressive Party, led by the president of our country, Aleksandr Vukic, has been doing for five years. We are fighting to change everything that was not good in Serbia. But what, when you fight to change something, some who have left you chaos, who have left you bankruptcy, hopelessness, minus, a hole to the hole, are trying to bring you back to this dark time and to bring Serbia and its citizens back into the midst of corruption, crime, hopelessness and poverty. I'm sure we need reforms. For what? Our goals are that this society, that our citizens live better, regardless of which political party they are identified for. We've heard some stories today that our public administration is suffering from partocratism. It is true that in Serbia, perhaps the previous 50 or 60 years of public sector jobs depended on which political option you are defined for, it is no secret, everyone knows it, that little child knows that in Serbia it was necessary both for the cleaning woman and for the coffee cook and for any boss, chief, to be a member of a political party. Today is not the case anymore. I can speak openly with anyone in the opposition to tell us who the Serbian Progressive Party was replacing just because it was a sympathiser or a member of a political party. So many chiefs and department heads have stayed by the ministries that were before, because we are doing it – if someone has done his job with honor, he should remain, whoever did not do his job well should go. Those people who are qualified, they should find their place in the public administration if they want to help their society on the path of reform, on the path of change and on the path of improvement, through their work, knowledge and experience. Only someone who does not want Serbia well in the future can resist change. And these were those who, before 2012, in chaos, the poverty in which the citizens lived, had the opportunity to fly to Greenland with the salaries of a thousand euros, for example, and to winter in the Maldives. That from our parliamentary group, from the Serbian Progressive Party and the people who are in power today, you don't have such a case. A normal man cannot justify Serbia's public going to Maldives, spending 15,000 euros, and comes here talking about pensioners and talking about small salaries in public administration. It's a shame. (Anna Stevanovic: Chairman, is this a topic? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21841	My colleague Filipovic, really, go back to the National Academy, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21842	It has to do with the public administration. This and how it has to do with everything we've been saying today, so if you haven't interrupted some of us who have spit on us, muddled and talked about throats and whatever, then I can answer them in the way they deserve it, because Serbian citizens as their representatives, every day they ask us to speak here what they think and what they want to hear, and what's true, after all. (Anna Stevanović: Theme! ) Throwing is kind of a thing of culture. Culture is brought from the house, I'd say. (Anna Stevanović: Stick to the topic. ) I will remind you, when we speak and when it comes to someone – the subject, I simply have to tell you that Pushkin said one thing: “Reading is the best teaching. ” Someone who hasn't read a word of the law all the time shouts - theme, theme, and jumps from his chair – theme. If that lady's mom works at the Anti-Corruption Agency, then that could be the subject, and the citizens should know. I expected, you know, sometimes by chance something could come true from the opposition, listen to them all day, and not by any chance tell any truth. It's amazing, but it's good for citizens to see that they haven't changed anything, that in five years they haven't read or learned anything and that everything they're doing here and everything they've learned in a year and a half in this House, it's to raise the Rules of Procedure. The book is read, it doesn't rise... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21843	My colleague Filipović, please come back on the subject, talk about the subject. The debate is going perfectly. Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21844	It is true, the debate goes perfectly to the citizens of Serbia, people see what we have done for these five years in public administration, see how much easier it is to take out the document you need today, see how much public administration is, I would say, more professionally and better than it was before 2012. But far from being perfect. We are not saying that honey and milk are now flowing, but that we have courageously stepped into change and reform in our society and that citizens see and feel it. The people are talking about it, after all, and they plead and speak and you can see it. Well, anyone who took out a ID or passport is clear to him, if it's fair, or when he reported a baby in the maternity ward, he knows how to report a child in 10-15 minutes, so he doesn't have to go to five institutions anymore to get out a couple of documents and to spend weeks and days with him. Someone who wants to take out a document doesn't have to get out of work anymore and justify their lack of work to get a document out. So much better done than it was before. I accept and I like to hear suggestions and criticism, but if you've been in power for 12 years, master, and in those 12 years, you haven't been able to speed up the extraction of the ordinary citizenship play, then you better sit back and shut up and let some people do something, learn something from what you've been doing. As I say, again, education is being taken out of the house. Apparently, some people either don't have a house or they didn't have anyone to raise them. Repeating for the end, Serbia will progress as quickly as it is ready to change quickly, learn quickly and work on itself. This party, which supports the government of the Republic of Serbia, is ready to learn and work and read and change something when it is not well. That is why more than 60% of Serbian citizens are today for SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21845	Thank you. The word has been sent by the People's Parliament, Ana Stevanović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21846	So I point out the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 106, paragraph 1, which states that the speaker can speak exclusively of the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. You reacted, the fact is you did react, but why does someone always have to suggest to you and warn you when to react? We of the fellow concerned always listen to the same stories, they're always the same replicas that never relate to any topic, especially the topic of the agenda. There's always some facts that don't have to do with the brain. They insult their colleagues in a very primitive way. I ask you, for the dignity of this house, that you always respond to these things, not only when it comes to the mentioned colleague. Whenever a colleague insults, it is inadmissible, this way violates dignity, and you are obliged to maintain order at this session. That's why I'm asking you so that we don't suggest you do your job at all. Please do it responsibly and precisely, without our throws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21847	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21848	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21849	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 103, 108, 109, 107, regarding those members. Now you could see in action the classic abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which looked like a replica. That's how you could see the Rules of Procedure break precisely because of nepotism. I didn't know, and I believe I hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, too, what Mr. Serbs said. Imagine when nepotism gets to the point where someone at the Anti-Corruption Agency has an officer who controls it. Imagine that my late mother is now at the Anti-Corruption Agency and is in control of me. Now I understand, and there is a violation of dignity, why my colleague Radulovic never responded because he transferred the company to a connected person, i.e. My wife, just because his mother controlled his emissaries...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21851	Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. I would ask all my colleagues not to comment on private life and anyone in private life. The word has a folk MP, Ana Stevanovic, again a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21852	I now point to Article 107, also item 1, which says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Why did I answer to point to this injury? Because it is absolutely clear to me that people who have never achieved anything with their own knowledge or education can only think that others have also come to some of the positions or functions that are currently available to them. I also remind the representatives of the SNS what their president said about six months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21853	Don't remind them, please remind me, tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21854	Just to point out that he said that any member of them who mentions or offends himself is being expressed about a family member and any political opponent that will be expelled from the party. So, on this occasion, I also call on the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, to respond to such things and to keep his word and to remove certain members from his party, as they are insultingly expressing themselves to members of the opposition, particularly representatives of the parliamentary group enough, including myself. So just because some MPs came out of some reality show doesn't mean they have to make a reality show out of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21855	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21856	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21857	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this was a classic replica, a member of the 103st century 7th and 8th to turn down the time of the parliamentary group for two minutes. I'll apologize if I was wrong. But let a colleague make it clear if there is a conflict of interest. Does her mother work at the Anti-Corruption Agency? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21859	Don't, please, buddy. I'm not gonna let this happen. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21860	Now I too, by article 107, Mr. Chairman, would like the question of the dignity of the National Assembly. So I find it totally unacceptable to strike the dignity of the National Assembly when someone here feels offended or hurt and then reacts to things that he would otherwise not react to if they were happening to him in the immediate environment, but never under God's love. For example, the story of the agenda. Is one of the only times on that side shown today to go beyond the agenda, and it's been happening all of God's day? Is the entire yellow company whenever it spoke out of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah, it's what it is. Is the MP group exactly that association of citizens, a group of citizens, that's saying it's a party, and nothing really came out of the agenda? Yes, it is. Could they have complained about that phenomenon? No, they're not. Mr. Chairman, you should notice that when an abuse like this happens, it's what she was just about to point out. Did they find themselves invited to point out the way out of the agenda when only a few days ago they spent the work of the National Assembly here, God knows how much money the citizens who pay for all this, tell a perfectly correct demagogue story about some free textbooks? We were suggested here to buy 560,000 computers, that's what they wrote. They had no idea what they wrote. They had no idea what they were talking about, and that wasn't the point of the agenda or the subject of the debate. Did you hear them then, Mr. Chairman, that they were doing what they were doing earlier? Did you hear that they complained the same way they did before? I'm not. I'm sure it wasn't anyone who was in the O.R. here. These are all abuses after each other. Mr. Chairman, you and I know that it is deeply immoral people, people who have abused campaign money, but that immorality demonstrates through this experience of the Rules of Procedure that you should not allow. I'm not asking us to vote, to take care of things. Thank you. (Vladimir Djuric: Shame on you! What are you talking about? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21861	Please don't throw it away. I'm asking for peace in the O.R. (Vladimir Djuric: Shame on you and you for not warning him!) Mr. Djuric, I give you a warning. We're going back to the agenda. The word has Tatjana Macura. He's not here. The word is Ivana Stojiljković, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21862	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to point out that these four laws that are on the agenda today are the result of a very well-tagged road, i.e. very good public administration reform, which has been in focus since 2014 and the government led by Aleksandar Vukic, and this government that successfully continues, headed by Ana Brnabic. What the public administration reform represented above all was rationalisation, then reorganisation and modernisation. The rationalisation for these three years has been very successful. We have the results of a reduction in the number of public administrations by 39,000 employees and, as we have already heard from very good social programs and natural outflows, not how the government used to do this before us by firing workers. So a very good social programme has led to a reduction of about 39,000 extra public administration employees. If a reduction from public enterprises is added, the number reaches 80,000. So, savings are at an annual level of around 45m euros, which is very important for the Republic of Serbia's budget. These four laws that are before us today are above all a very good basis and roof reorganisation laws are further and modernized. When we talk about the reorganisation of public administration, we are above all talking about not only the reorganisation of systems and new ways of doing business more modern, but also the training and training of public administration employees. So this is where the repeatedly challenged national academy is mentioned today, which, first of all, does not represent a higher education institution and is not given a diploma after it, but represents an accredited institution that will train and perfect public administration employees and prepare them for more modern technologies. I'd just like to draw attention, here's an example, the other day on the Committee, when we talked about these introductions of e-government and e-business, we talked about IT sector experts, and the opposition MP asked -- how do you think you keep them in the public sector, when wages aren't enough? It is true that salaries for IT professionals in the private sector are far higher and it is true that they are far more tempting salaries abroad, but this academy is exactly the way to keep these young people because we can give them adequate education, adequate training, because of course they have to perfect themselves, and it costs them all. This private sector cannot give them this way, as the state will be able, as the academy will be able and as public institutions will be able to do. So, here, this is one example where this academy will have very good effects. And, as I said, so modernization applies first of all to digitization. So, one modern, efficient and cheaper public administration. We just heard from my esteemed colleague that she's following the integration into one system of six registers; parent books, social security, PIO, MUP, National Employment Service. Just this connection, which will allow you to get everything you wanted on your ID card, so, to get a service or to report a newborn baby, or if you want to report, or to schedule a wedding, these are some examples, only on an annual basis to save about 7,000,000 printed papers, now imagine how much savings it will be in each local self-government. So all these laws will provide a very good basis, roof laws for further modernisation, especially in this sphere we see very good results. So not only should the public administration be in the service of citizens, but also to achieve efficiency, to achieve significant savings, and what is very important, to reduce corruption and the grey economy. Since we can't make it to the 21st century with the stamp, with the paper and the counter, of course, we will support these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21863	Thank you, colleague Stojiljkovic. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21864	I don't really deal with everyone here. We've been listening to some of the opposition's emotional outbursts all afternoon, and again, as at last session, I say you're doing your job badly. For starters, I'm sorry Minister Ruzic isn't here. We have four laws. Two are from Mr. Ljajic's domain, two are from the domain of state administration reform. It's great that we're dealing with these issues. The reform of the state administration is a foundation of sustainability, primarily of an economic, one society. It's an important parameter for someone to come and invest, to have a transparent administration, to have a quick company registration, so that you can go into bankruptcy quickly, to open-close the company and end the personal situation of the citizens. What is my problem with Ruzic here is how we found the idea that, precisely the system law, we take to deal with this problem of forming a National Academy. It is an idea that has been annulled since, I think, Goran Ciric was there since the beginning of 2000, the president of the Permanent Conference and we have talked about a body that needs to be educational. I have absolutely nothing against it, continuous education is the key to a sustainable administration and any work, but we have these continuous educations today, although not in formal form. Let's get every new law passed. People from all over Serbia are coming to various educations where ministerial assistants, ministers, specialists, university professors and so on. Why do we start with this and we have another problem. We've been talking all day about banning employment, hearing there's no partocracies. There's never been a bigger partocracy. You know that well, Mr. Ljajic, and he knows Mr. Ruzic. More people have been admitted in this House twice after the ban on employment. What we need 250 more people in the past few years. Tens of thousands, what are we doing here? We have top professionals in the administration who still work there for minimum fees, mostly female labour. These people have no perspective, they don't know how they're going to progress within that system. Imagine you've got a private company where someone's been working for 20 years and doesn't know if they'll be able to move forward in 20 years. It's a fundamental reform of the state administration. With this education, you have to make the right progress. It is not the political elite that decides, but simply that people who spend their time in certain places and titles have a chance to move forward. That bothers them to stay for small wages, because we need those people. As for the electronic signature, yesterday I went to apply for a passport, for a daughter who is two and a half months old. You know what the procedure looks like, like in 1850. I went to the police, waited 20 days. In the police... Don't make me... You horse, please. I went to the police...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21865	Comrade Jesic, I can't believe what you've said in the first place. (Goran Jesic: What are you interrupting me for? Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21866	The bottom line is, I had to go from the police to the municipal administration to get my citizenship out. You can't finish citizenship without a payment, you can't pay it electronically. Well, we went from there to the police again to scan for citizenship, where you wait two and a half months. Why do we have a problem here? The basic problem of citizens with the state's administration is personal. And then to solve our personal situation, the birth certificate, citizenship, death and marriage. That's 60% of the board's entry. We have great examples. We have a phenomenal example of the catastra, where the man who the director of the catastra did a great job, digitized. We had a great job at the APR. Let's just put it through and keep doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21867	So, I'm obliged to tell Parliament that I'm going to ask for a stenogram. I'm not sure what's said, if spoken, don't repeat it, I'll give my colleague Jesic a warning. I'd like the services to deliver my stenogram. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21868	I thank the Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we have four high-quality draft laws ahead. Put your hand on the heart when we talk about the amendment bill and the additions of the Information Security Act, it's just technical details, three members. It is a matter of jurisdiction, who in the Republic authorities will have jurisdiction over information technologies. Unfortunately, despite the good discussions both by the opposition and by the position here, we are witnessing that there has been a lot of unculture, I can even say malice, ignorance. I don't know how to put it or how to say how certain MPs acted. First of all, academic calling and academic knowledge means nothing. Someone in life has to read "Politika's Funster" in order to have education and culture. She can't talk about education, talk about expertise and science. In particular, in my review, I would like to address the proposal for a Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business. Why do you want to talk about it? Because certain messengers have neither read the law nor know what it is. They discussed Brussels, and above all, they don't know what the directive is or what the regulation is. If they had read the law from the beginning to the end, they would have understood what the directive is and what the regulation of the European Economic Community is. Nor does anyone make us enforce their regulations or anything. We want first of all to settle this issue, and I think it's highly quality and correctly arranged. For those of you who don't know who brought this stone the other day, it is likely that they have left it after the Cupusiode in Mrcajevci, so they brought it to parliament, unfortunately I can tell them that the national operator, means that Telekom Serbia, which is mostly owned by the state of Serbia, has one good and valuable project. Those who follow the media can be informed, we have an ad that's called Internet coordination, and otherwise it's about ILLIP transformation. Telekom wants, above all, to lead every citizen to every institution, the optics. So, to have a fast internet, so that we can have all the things that it says in this law to finally implement in our country, that's why Telekom Serbia invests in huge funds so that we can technologically, and above all, perfect ourselves in the realm of the ynernet. Much more attention is paid today, above all, to the Law on the National Academy, and no one has mentioned and said, after all, Mr Ruzic said quite well in his statement that this law stems from the Public Administration Reform Strategy in Serbia. The aim of these laws is to modernise and professionalise. We heard everything here and everything on the other side. There were talk of kindergartens, fountains, folk singers, apartments for some sort of staff. One word nobody mentioned about the law itself. As soon as you haven't had any objections and you haven't had any concrete objections, all this says that the law is good and that it will be only the first step in regulating the work of the public, and we expect and we know that public debates are being conducted and expect us in the future two or three legislative acts that will further define the work of the public. So that you don't take up time, because I know there are a lot of speakers on the list, I'm ending up with this, and I'm going to say that in the voting day, I'm going to vote for these four concrete draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21869	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. (Srbislav Filipovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Alexandra Belačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21870	I would like to focus my exposure today solely on the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration. The bill submitted to us states that the National Academy is the central institution of a system of professional training in the public administration of the Republic of Serbia. With the status of publicly recognised organizer of the activities of informal adult education, the National Academy is educated as a special organisation with legal personality, and it is envisaged that supervision of the work of the Academy will be carried out by the competent ministry. It is further stated that one of the key principles for the overall promotion of public administration is its professionalisation, with raising the level of expertise and the ability of employees from a particular impact on the successful and quality performance of jobs, changing working methods and organisational culture in modern conditions. In this respect, the special importance is organised and continued professional development of public administration employees, and the aim of this Academy is to provide public administration staff with education, i.e. professional training, monitoring of the work of professional training and development, as well as to provide continued support in work. This law provides for the establishment of a special institution aimed at enabling civil servants to become more kind, efficient and much better addressed to all legislative provisions and regulations. The first question you'd ask about this is, how do you think you educate civil servants to become more polite? How is it that any adult learns kindness or decency in dealing with parties? What are the methods, which will be used in the education of civil servants to become more kind? Are you going to teach them bon tones or is it something else? What methods will you check that civil servants have learned to be more kind than previous behavior? Dear Ministers and dear fellow Members of the People, education is something to carry from the house. If one’s parents failed to perform their parental duties, it is unlikely that any National Academy will be able to correct it. As for improving the efficiency of civil servants, I don't understand how you mean to improve efficiency by increasing the number of employees in the state service. It is impossible to increase efficiency by piling up the administration. How many employees exactly predict this National Academy? You told us – a little. How small is that exactly? Who will choose these employees, and on what basis will the director of this facility be elected? For years you've promised to cut the state administration, and now suddenly you're doing the opposite. The current prime minister, Ana Brnabic, said in February this year that there are no extra public administration employees. Brnabic's estimate is that Serbia is currently numbered well below the EU average, where 100 residents are attended by 8.5 civil servants, while in Serbia the number is six, five. A further reduction in the number of state administration employees would endanger the quality of services provided by the state administration, Ana Brnabic said in February of this year, and you, respected ministers in July of this year, gave a completely contradictory statement and said, "That the number of perpetrators, i.e. officials in local self-government units in Serbia by the end of 2018 should be one hundred thousand people, while in 2013, there were 123,700 of them. You have announced that the number of civil servants in the public administration this year will be reduced by 2.486 and I ask you to clarify this. Is the rationalisation in the public sector over or is it still a process? Make a deal with Ana Brnabic and give us a common position. The problem is that you have no continuity in work and that every time you choose a minister, that minister brings out information that doesn't match the information we received from the previous minister. That's why you don't have the results. Another problem is that you adapt the percentage of the number of employees in the state administration compared to the number of inhabitants with the number, or the EU-run raid. Release the EU, adjust the number of civil servants to the number needed for units of local self-government and state administration to function effectively. Where necessary, you hire an additional number of employees, and where you have too many employees, carry out layoffs, but do not measure yourself towards the EU, because it is clear that we will never enter the EU. What is particularly controversial with this bill is that you suggest that people, in addition to the courtesy and efficiency of this Academy, get the opportunity to be referred to all legal provisions and regulations, that is to learn through the Academy to implement the laws and work on certain projects. We believe that all employees of the state, or public administration who have passed the process of secondary and higher education, education, must be referred to the moment they enter the employment relationship. It is understood that all employees are professional enough for the work they do. We can understand that a young man does not have enough experience for his job, but it is understood that in that case, senior colleagues will instruct him and inform him how he should work, and that you are sending people to collective training, so that you can direct them to the job you are paid for is at least scandalous. If you have to do this, it's obvious that you hired the wrong people, which doesn't surprise us, because we know that you hired people in the public sector exclusively by party key, not by expertise and by ability. It is clear to the citizens of Serbia that it will be difficult to get a job in the state administration unless they are members of the ruling parties, while party personnel of the ruling parties have opened all doors. It's because they've been mass hiring people with diplomats of private colleges who have a calling but have no knowledge of the work they're doing, and now you've got a problem. You've only got one right way to solve it, fire the party staff, which you've hired, which aren't professional enough for a job that works. Hire people who can work and people who will devote themselves to the work for which they are paid and who will not write comments on social networks and praises at the expense of the representatives of your parties. Your choice is who will work in your parliamentary clubs, your ministries, but those civil servants who work with the citizens, with the parties, must be dedicated to those citizens full-time. Instead of solving the problem and doing professionalization, you are predicting the establishment of some national academy and only increasing the administration and leading to further employment of your staff, and the result will be very bad. It's clear that starting this academy is not your idea. She is also mentioned in the exposé of Prime Minister Vukic, who, however, announced the establishment of this academy, but did not take any concrete action on the occasion. The Academy also mentions the exposé of Ana Brnabic, who, to say, began writing this law since the National Academy is one of two things of national importance to her, the other is digitisation. Meanwhile, we have found that digitisation for this regime is of national importance because of the digitalisation of the prime minister's brother, whose revenues have grown significantly since it took office. We still don't know exactly who's dealing with the National Academy and whether someone's brother or aunt will show up here, but we certainly know that it doesn't matter to the citizens of Serbia. For example, survey a hundred Serbian citizens and tell you what are the problems they are facing and what the regime needs to address. No one will lead you to the efficiency of civil servants as a significant problem. Our employment is so small that there is someone in every family who is unemployed and who has time to go to the counters, wait for them to perform, wait for solutions, wait for documents, and no one will die for it, and we have many other lines where waiting can end fatally. So what's the problem is that when you schedule a doctor's appointment, you wait six months, when you schedule a scanner, you wait a year. I think that budget money should be invested in solving such problems in health care, in education, in economy and in many other priority sectors, rather than wasting itself on something like this, which is completely unnecessary. The SRS will, therefore, vote against the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration, as we will vote against the amendments and additions of the Law on Civil Servants, given that these amendments and additions serve only to provide a framework for the work of the National Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21871	Thank you, colleague Belacic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21872	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. In the discussion, I will refer to the laws in the field of state administration and local self-government. We have two draft laws - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants and a bill on the National Academy of Public Administration, which is a newer revolutionary law and which creates conditions for the permanent and continuous education of civil servants in order to create an efficient, modern, professional and professional public administration. Dear Minister Ruzic, I must begin by pointing out a public fact and a positive example that you give when it comes to co-operation with local self-government. Under the circumstances that you have been constantly on the ground since you took office as Minister of State Administration and local self-government, it can be unequivocally concluded that you have established one standard and one good practice. By bypassing new municipalities and cities among which, I say, they are primarily the most underdeveloped, you have shown determination to listen to the needs of both citizens and citizens and the state administration. This is the best way to implement their needs in laws and other regulations, and on the other hand you are aware that local self-government represents a very important link in the process of comprehensive public sector reform. The SPS Group considers that the laws currently on the agenda from the field of state administration and local self-government are just an example of good articulation of the needs of citizens on the one hand, which is that they have adequate public service and those providing that service, i.e. state and public administration on the other. The reform of public administration is an important condition for the success of overall reforms in the Republic of Serbia and the government is unequivocally defined for this process, aware that for wider social development a reform is necessary for the activities of employees who are tasked with carrying out this reform through their daily work. Thus, the creation of a professional and responsible state administration is one of the key objectives of the overall reform of society. The government of the Republic of Serbia has so far taken significant steps towards a comprehensive public administration and passed a number of laws. Since the amendments to the Law on State Officials, the Law on Employees in the AP and units of local self-government to the law governing salaries and the system of coefficients for determining wages in the state administration, thus removing longstanding doubts about what is the job of civil servants, who are his responsibilities, which is the coefficient applied in which work is carried out, etc. Therefore, order is finally introduced into the work of the public administration and sets standards for providing services to citizens, who exercise their constitutional rights before different state and local authorities. That is why we believe that the proposal for a law on the National Academy of Public Administration has such a purpose. This law forms a central institution that provides a legal framework for the professional training of state administration employees, which is rounding the entire system in order to create a responsible and efficient state administration. It is clear to all that the competence of civil servants, i.e. on their skills and abilities, depends on the quality of the state administration, and therefore this bill will create a key condition for permanent and continuous learning, improving the knowledge and skills of employees by standardized methodology of programmes, which will enable employees to gain the necessary competences for their work. The public administration must be a service to citizens and businesses, and the state administration must certainly be motivated to do so, not only through receiving, various types of rewards and benefits, the possibility of advancement, the evaluation of the technical equipment, but also the possibility of gaining new skills and improving existing skills. Since we as a state have a strategic commitment to EU membership, one of the important criteria in the accession process of European peoples' communities is to strengthen administrative capacity, which provides itself, primarily through a standardised process of improving the knowledge and skills of the public service providers themselves. In addition, we must end this process for our own sake, for the sake of the citizens and citizens of this country, in their interest and in the interest of the economy, to make their daily lives more quality. So what is predicted by the formation of the National Academy of Public Administration is the application of principles, professionalization in order to create a trained, responsible and more efficient public administration, and this is only possible through a permanent and systematic education process. The formation of a central national institution for professional training of public administration staff, foreseen by a public administration reform strategy in the Republic of Serbia, because of the need for professional training of employees who have so far been engaged by several public administration and service authorities to be centralised through one institution and the SPS considers this to be another step towards a comprehensive public administration reform. What is important to point out, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Civil Service Act, is that this proposal, other than of course, enables more mobility of personnel at the level of public administration, i.e. to fluctuate employees between all three levels of government, from local, rural to republican. In a way that liberates both officials and authorities of the state administration major administrative difficulties when transferring employees from one body to another public administration. We consider this a very significant and logical solution somewhere. So, that employees at all three levels of government take over without competition, of course with the consent of the employed organ manager. Given the main principles of public administration reform decentralisation, depolitisation, rationalisation, and one of the most significant, professionalisation, the SPS parliamentary group believes that the laws we are discussing today will contribute to a more quality public administration and more professionalisation of all employees, provide them with a permanent process of improving knowledge, which will motivate and train employees to provide adequate service to citizens. Of course, no less important and more quality are the laws in the field of information security and electronic business, but they will be discussed in more detail by my distinguished colleagues, where I stress, for all these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group will support all the draft laws in this search. I believe that, at the announcements of the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, we will soon see amendments and additions to the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government and that in this way the system of professional training for public administration employees will be completely rounded up. In the end, under the circumstances that during today's discussion we heard little criticism about the proposed laws, but many unfounded claims, I have to look back at the discussion and colleagues of Bosko Obradović and Zoran Zivkovic and explain that as a party that has 27 years of tradition, there are, naturally, four generations of its staff in this hall, from one of the oldest and most experienced, to the most respected engineer Milutin Mrkonjic, to the youngest, who belongs to my dear colleague Djordje Djokovic. I'm extremely proud that she's sitting across the street right now. On the other hand, if we charge the minister that forming a National Academy is an attempt to form an organ that will educate the staff of the SPS and SNS, it is not bad and you need to apply that practice, for starters you need to have personnel so that perhaps someday you can create an academy that will educate your staff as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21873	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21874	Dear citizens of Serbia, respected government and ministry representatives, respected fellow MPs, chairman, today we present before citizens laws on the National Academy of Public Administration and certain laws relating to electronic business. First I'm going to say something about the law on the National Academy, and later I'm going to say something about these, like, electronic laws. So public administration training is necessary, of course it's not controversial. According to information from one of the fellow MPs, the change of government at the level of its local self-government has been overrun by new staffs there, of which 80% of them have diplomas from private universities. The quality of these diplomas and the need for further education of these people are, I would say, clear to every citizen. In Novi Sad, he even knows exactly which address to which apartment you can buy a diploma from some higher education institution in Republika Srpska, and even says: we will write you a degree, so you just come and sign it for us, and we will contribute it to our library. So, that's, as I would say now, one risk that we from this National Academy don't get a national academy for government work, so we don't educate Djordz Cvarkova, Torbica and Bostic and Boskovic's brother. It'll be a learning motivation problem. Why? Because the criteria for employment and advancement are up to date. So we can scale up when there was and whether there's still more or less party employment, but one fact is, state affairs are, therefore, unreachable with the best talents in this country, and we should be. That's why our best talents are leaving, not just those who have to, but everyone who can. I would also draw attention to certain objections made by the Anti-Corruption Agency in its full five-page document and on its website, as regards objections to certain corrupt, potentially corrupt and the risks of corruption in the law on the National Public Administration Academy. The general observation is that when determining the competence of the academy, it should be borne in mind that the National Anti-Corruption Strategy provides for all public officials to undergo ethics and integrity training as major anti-corruption features. It has been stated that many of the provisions in the law are imprecise, that they give wide discretion and that they leave legal gaps. So it is already mentioned in the debate the famous way of obtaining the director of the National Academy, which there is no word in the law, but there is not a word to refer to any other regulation that regulates his choice. We don't know if he's named or chosen, if it's in the competition, who's calling him, what's the competition like. But what is even more important in our opinion is that there is absolutely no single word in the law regarding the profile of a desirable person for the position of director. So, what kind of person do we want at the director's office? Yes, there will be a competition, as suggested by the promoter, but we think it would be much better to define in the law itself the profile of a person who can be elected or appointed, or set up as director. In one discussion at the previous session, you were told to object because you are not in a position to appoint your director, so it bothers you that we are now in power to set our own. That, of course, is not true. We want the criteria for obtaining positions in the public administration to be legally defined as accurately as possible, in an optimal way, optimally detailed, so as not to overload the law. Why? In order to limit the challenger to have to choose a person who meets the legal profile, not to leave a broadly undefined discretionary right to be able to call a competition for a person of whatever will, a working experience of any kind, professional skills of any kind, and other skills that are measured in human resource management, arbitrary character. The Anti-Corruption Agency also remarked that it is not prescribed or referred to another regulation regarding the supervision of the National Academy, that there are insufficiently precise conditions for the implementation of commercial programmes, that too broad powers have been given to the Academy to co-operate with other entities in the implementation of the programme. With which other entities, e.g. With Megatrend, right? That would be great. It is stated that these services will be supplied in public procurement whose application in education has been assessed as bad, among other things the Public Procurement Act was amended in 2015. The Anti-Corruption Agency also suggests that the conditions of accreditation of the person for training are specified in detail, to state exactly which areas, the type of studies, the number of trainings implemented, the number of works published, of course, from the relevant area so that someone could be accredited to carry out training, but more about these remarks when the debate is in particular. With regard to electronic documents of electronic services and information security, I would give an illustrative example of information security by sending, say, the House of the National Assembly. The proposed amendment of the law confers jurisdiction for the management of information security in the republican authorities, so here is an example in the National Assembly. We all use e-parliament. Here, I responsibly claim that over 90% of the MPs did not change the initial password for logging into the e-parliament. I've already mentioned it on some committees. I can use your first name and last name to log in like you, to be seen by the system as you and to send a letter to the President of the Republic, representing myself as you, because you haven't changed the code to 123456, initial. Here, I'm making it public now, she's initial. Well, change it, because the Assembly system is insecure information. In banks and insurance houses and other companies that have developed information culture, inactive consumer orders are shut down after some time for reasons of preventing their abuse. The user has been forced to change the password by announcing it – in three days the password expires, you change it, in two days the password expires, you change it, if you don't change it, your account is blocked, you can't log in, you can't activate it at the board's session to sign up for the word. This is not what Parliament's information system sees. And then we have events like the disappearance of the amendment time and the collapse of the voting system, which also talk about the security of the home's information system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21875	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21876	I'd like our laws and those things to work it out. It's life's questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21877	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21878	Can you tell me how much time I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21879	Three minutes and five seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21880	Okay. Then those three minutes oblige me to talk about the essence and the alarming state, and we'll talk more in detail. Mr. Ljajic, Mr. Ruzic, any law you propose and which you bring here to Parliament must come from reality. The initial good intentions both of them and the third and fourth laws have, unfortunately, do not correspond to reality. It is our duty as responsible Members of the People to warn you about it. In particular, Mr. Ruzic, you are not responsible for the state of the public administration as it is today. We have witnessed that you are very clear, that you are responding loudly and clearly to some phenomena that you do not like. You have full support in that. The position you are in today, despite the fact that you are not responsible for these situations, obliges you to speak loudly about them and there is no abolizing there. When we talk about the fact that today we're proposing to the academy, which can be something that we're going to say hello to, it might look like, it should be the last act in public administration reform. You know, it looks like today when Belgrade is torn apart, destroyed, when the Belgrade citizens are trapped, they can't walk, and the city government experts are forcing people to whine New Year's lighting. So every law must correspond to reality. The reality is that in the public administration we have amazing party employment, we have a defeating employment ban that is no temporary measure, because it extends from year to year. We have a fact that it does not apply to everyone, and we are witnesses today and everywhere that we have hundreds and tens of thousands of party activists who are above all SNS, and that for the best people, for the young people who are naturally directed, who wanted to stay in this country, to study and work hard in areas that are naturally directed at the state, the state, this government and you who are part of it, there is no place for you. So, chaos is in the public administration, and I repeat, you are not responsible, but from the moment you took responsibility, you are responsible for speaking out loud. These are things that should be an alarm to all of us, to be our priority. We have a situation in Paracino that after a few years of working for a certain time, and we are talking about some academy, the best and only IT expert goes away, and we can't because of the ban on employment, because for the Paracin municipality, behold, miracles, although the Paracino municipality has 131 workers less than the maximum number of employees, there is no one allowed to employ and there is no IT expert who can perform and do what is minimum necessary, necessary for the elemental functioning of a local self-government. So, what kind of message does employees get, who are humiliated and demoted, which is reduced by wages, which by the fact that they have no chance of making any progress, which is the fact that witnesses are every day employed by hundreds of thousands of party activists? They're humiliated in every way possible. The citizens see all this, and these are the things that should be the previous question before any discussion about any academy, which should be like the last degree in public administration reform, which unfortunately we all haven't even started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21881	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21882	I have to wonder what this would look like if the "yellow company" didn't just talk about the essence, because this was announced as a story only about the essence. They say party employment, thousands, tens of thousands, whatever. That someone's here, so he hears how many fewer employees are in the public sector right from the moment they came into force, since those laws that this terrible SNS adopted here have been applied, 80,000 less. If someone is able to accept it as information and process it as data. So, not that it's not what they're talking about, it's everything exactly the opposite. Paracin. Where exactly did you catch Paracino mentioning anyone today? Unbelievable. So, out of all the places in Serbia, exactly where the "yellow company" and the day it burns and burns, it's exactly where the "yellow company" makes investors want to keep people in their hands, exactly where they simulate some kind of development, that sort of, as it were, the industrial park where the spider is being collected, the great money crashes into it. What's their score? For those who may not know, multiple increases in unemployment in that place since the age of a "yellow company" on it. Now they're worried about employment, now they're worried about work for people. They told us today -- human capital is the greatest, their knowledge and their skills, and what about that 500,000-dollar capital you threw out on the street? They don't matter? Their knowledge and their art doesn't matter? Worried about the kids? What about the children of those 500,000 people? Or today, in Serbia, only one who sits with them, only one who was willing to charge with them by a billion and 200 million today is being made ignorant, only one who will criticise because today in Belgrade is being done, because the construction sites are there, and they could not find a cure, only one who has done everything they planned, and I end up with it, and that fountain they celebrated, which they were not capable of, and this "Belgrade on the Water", which they dreamed and for which they were not able. It's your fault, and they're right, come on, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21883	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21884	We've just heard about hate spills, here's a very talented outpouring of hate that we listen to from day to day, but part of that hatred can be poured out against the people who are now defending the laws, who have been in coalition with the same people you're so passionately attacking and you don't choose words. Minister Ljajic, Mr. Ruzic, the SPS and MPs were part of that system that you attack like that. I don't think it's right for them, or for all the people who worked, in some way, to contribute to this society. Hate and this relationship will certainly not contribute to better solutions in these laws. We tried to make contributions in a way that some of the people who worked in the previous ministries did. That's what you were talking about. He hasn't started life and history with engagement since 2012. It's not. We have confirmation of that, because some development in information, in infrastructure, started in 2002 and 2008 and this is only part of the upgrade of one, I would assume, civilised society that realizes that continuity is needed in every sense in order for society to advance from day to day. What we see now, regarding the development of personnel in the public administration, is part of the continuation of that same approach. Some things happened in 2008 and 2004, and tomorrow it's October 5th that you're talking about and we're talking about from different angles, where some ministers are sitting again who say it's an extraordinary date, a date that is positive in Serbia's history. Some things we'll agree on, some things we don't. They brought news, brought new things, a date that he had just brought and defended victory in the legitimate elections. If we got something, it's a verification of the success of working in the elections and a peaceful transition of power. It is the success of the "yellow company", and of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21885	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21886	Thank you. I almost smiled. It's an outpouring of hate. Is it an outpouring of hate that we remind those 500,000 people on the street of exile? Hate for who? Or should I turn away from the question, from which you have cast them into the same street? What kind of love did you show that you absolutely don't care about their children, and today absolutely empty demagogue flossules are spreading? She's worried about the kids, isn't she? What about their kids? That's the question. Don't answer to us. Answer the people who are watching this. Doesn't it matter, does it matter less? What about the city that's going down because it's important to someone to hold power, even if it's small, just what's it like? What about the love that Dragoljub Milanovic was beaten up that October 5th which is such a good and beautiful date, which has such great liquids? What kind of gentleness is that? What are these feelings, so we have to celebrate them today and remember them joyfully? What are we talking about? The burned Parliament? Are we talking about destroying institutions and RTS and already legendary arrivals at the highest state posts around 11:00 a.m., staying at the job by noon, having crazy parties until nightfall, until no one cares about the country, its sovereignty, while the KiM issue is collapsing from the UN level, while addressing the International Court of Justice for the opinion that someone in Pristina would be done or someone on the side? Are these phenomenal examples of care for the country, for individuals, for their fates, for the fate of nations and states in general? What hate? What kind of gentleness should bother us more to wish these things again? If you ask the citizens of Serbia, never again, never, far from their beautiful home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21887	The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica. I ask all colleagues not to turn the debate into a debate on October 5th. Let's get back to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21888	It's a replica and it's obviously the subject, because we talked about the strength of the institutions. Now we're talking about the strength of the institutions and that's the topic at hand. What do we want more than this country than the right of Serbian citizens to choose, to have free choice and to accept their results in a peaceful manner? You talked about burning down the Assembly, about RTS, you talked about October 5th that way, but you didn't talk about October 5th as an attempt by the current regime to demand the will of the people and to demand the election results. October 5th wasn't a revolution. October 5th was the day when the election results were defended and the free will of citizens who at that time expressed their will. This is the attitude towards citizens, and in 1996 when the results of the local elections were defended in mass theft, and in 2000 when the results were defended in these republican elections. Many in this room were on both sides and on the other side, and it doesn't matter who was on which side, but it's important that the people's will be defended. That's the point of October 5th. It is true that at that time, the state was at the border of civil war because someone did not want to admit the results and wanted to change them by force. Fortunately, the citizens of Serbia have defended it. I think that's the most important thing. In the same way as it is important in 2012 in which you won the elections, but the DS showed then that he knows he's losing the election. The way she knew she'd win the election in 1996. In 2000, and to defend them along with the citizens, she also knew to receive defeat, to receive the message of citizens and, of course, to secure a peaceful transition of power. It's the respect of the institutions, it's the power of the DS and I think it's the power of the state. That's what I expect from you in your first next election when you lose.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21889	Thank you. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21890	So democracy, respect for the will of the people, hate speech. Who are we from and how do we defend the People's Bank with long pipes on October 5, 2000? Who were we from and how did we defend the Federal Customs Administration with long pipes in 2000? Did the bloodshed call upon those who took these long pipes and raised them or anyone else? They say in 2012, someone showed their breadth and democratic capacity. Oh, he's got a gun. Oh, he's got a gun. The people couldn't look at them anymore. How much they respected, so they showed us this year. We don't have to go back in a decade or two. What happened in 2017? Did they accept the democratically expressed will of the people or organise protests against the results of the elections? Were they fair enough to give their hand and congratulate the one who won? He didn't win, he blew them off, with 56% against theirs as it was, 10, 12. Can that be compared? Is this democratic capacity and attitude towards institutions or are we going to rally and protest, we're going to try to get on the street what the votes can't? Let's get serious. A question of hate. That October 5th, when they go to celebrate with their failed dossal candidate Jankovic, in two days from today, let them greet us there, to convey our personal greetings to those from that camp, the camp of failed Dossovite candidate Jankovic, who have threatened us with a bullet in the forehead in recent months, who threatened to hang us, who mention families and mention, as we were told, urinating in graves. Right? All the wonderful examples of relationships with institutions, respect and all the things that are not hate. Let those of the people remember with such a company. Whom are you with? It'll mean something to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21891	Thank you. Maja Vidinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21892	Article 106, Honorable Vice President. The replica caused by my discussion obliges me to not only the dignity of the National Assembly, but as representatives of the citizens, we represent the citizens who, in their voice, have obliged us to speak on their behalf, and I must protect their dignity this way. You know, when someone says about the people who stood up against one policy that they went out into the streets to cause bloodshed, I have to get up in defense of the dignity of those citizens and remind all of you and all of us that they got up in defense of democracy and freedom, that they stood up against the policy that you represented back then, and October 5th is just a reminder of what you were once. October 5th is a warning. October 5th will remain forever remembered and recorded in our history because it will know exactly who were the policy players that led to the wars, the victims, who were political actors against whom the free citizens of Belgrade and Serbia stood up, voted, won, and October 5th was the defence of the right to freedom, the defence of their vote. I do not allow, as long as I am an MP in the National Assembly, to accuse Serbian citizens of going out into the streets of Belgrade and causing bloodshed. On the contrary, they stood up against your policy, stood up in defense of freedom, defending their vote, and something like that cannot be tolerated in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21893	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? Yeah. ) The word has Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21894	Thank you. Col. Vidinović reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, and I will report article 107. I'm really asking that we stick to dignity in this assembly here. A previous speaker, a colleague of Orlic here said someone was threatening someone with a bullet in his forehead. It's a very serious thing, and we can't be so serious about them. If anyone has any knowledge of any criminal activity in the process, please choose to contact the judicial authorities, police, etc., and not to flirt with such things here and play a game for me, I don't know who. Therefore, this Assembly does not serve to list the “Informer” pages, and I ask you to stick to some level. If you have any knowledge that someone was threatening someone with a bullet, transfer that knowledge to a competent place. Do not take the right to accuse and judge here and to talk about how clearly it is that a group of MPs is immoral, etc., and then that group of MPs gets a warning about what you said. It's shameful and let it serve you honor, and your voters will once upon a time discuss it... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21895	Comrade Đurić, would you like the National Assembly to declare themselves in Voting Day? No, I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-04-0.u21896	I thought today's session was gonna go the way we've been doing it since the beginning. A colleague Marinkovic invited me to read, as the stenogram is something that cannot be falsified, as MP Jesic said. Not to read his whole speech, he said – "Don't let... You horse, please. I went to the police... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” The chairman said: “My colleague Jesic, I cannot believe what you have said at all. ” Goran Jesic: "What are you interrupting me for? “ I give him a warning and this day will be over and we will continue our work at 10 o’clock tomorrow. Thank you.
