ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16524	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović, Zdravko Stankovic, Milorad Mirčić, Zoran Krasic, Dr Sandra Raskovic Ivić, Đorđe Vukadinović, Slavisa Ristic, Marijan Risticevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamović, Natasa Mić, Olena Papuga, Nenad Canak, Dr Zarko Korać, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the opinion of the Government on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment in the same text, MPs Milorad Mircic and MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16525	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16526	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Olena Papuga, Nenad Canak, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16527	With this amendment, I suggested that, if you are already going into this operation, that the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund, and that of the foreign funds, be placed in government or debt securities of value, be it, in some way, under some control and some restriction, and I suggested that these investments go to so-called. short-term securities of value. These are, first of all, records with a maturity of three months and six months. Until one year, it's considered as a short-term asset allocation. Why in the short term? Because the purpose of the Deposit Insurance Fund is to have the resources to intervene within as short a time as possible if a bankruptcy is opened over one of the banks. If these assets were to be placed in long-term securities of value, then the maturity deadlines of these securities of value are much longer, one year, two years and then the question arises whether this intervention fund fulfils its function. Just to draw attention to you, given that this government is also in the process of crawling towards the EU and taking the obligation to bring our legal-political system into line with EU liquids, if you do so, there is an obligation for us to secure all deposits up to 100,000 euros, there is a commitment that this fund can pay off secured deposits within seven days, because this 2014 directive provides that these deadlines of 45 days, 20 days, only 24 days, seem to be seven days. I must remind you that this directive also implies the obligation to secure the deposit of large legal entities. So far, we only have physical faces, small and medium-sized enterprises and those micro-faces. I have to remind you of one more thing, which 14.5 billion euros is considered to be deposits that are secured, and the funds in the Deposit Insurance Fund are far below what was designed as the goal of this Fund. The aim of this Fund is to have at one point 5% of the funds from secured deposits. Of course, there's one fundamental question here. All premiums to be paid to the Deposit Insurance Fund by definition shall become State resources. We thus guarantee the security of private assets of natural persons in our banking system by means of state resources. This operation that you want to fund from the Security Fund, I just remind you that in 2005, the creation of this Fund was announced, so that problems such as the old foreign currency savings would not occur, as the state allegedly spent the money of citizens they invested in banks as savings were announced, so this Fund was announced. This Fund experienced torpedoing on its first mission in 2012. Turns out there's always enough funds in that fund. That's why the state is in charge of 145m euros from the World Bank to strengthen this Fund. You are now assessing that Serbia's banking system is extremely good and that these 140 and a few million should be invested in state records of value and help with the resolution of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't think this operation is good, no matter what kind of dynamic you can make in the event of an intervention, and these armed securities of value, what kind of discount they're gonna be, what kind of shop they're gonna be. I think this is a bad message for all citizens who have deposits with banks, and that includes money on savings. So, 14.5 billion euros will also be provided with securities of value, so we wanted it to be short-term securities of value, in order to preserve the meaning of the existence of the Deposit Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16528	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16529	Thank you. Very short. I call for it not to be accepted, of course, not because it is not directly related to the European integration of Serbia, which, of course, is being implemented in the best interests of the citizens of this country and it is absolutely unwise to claim that something is different, but because, as the legislator said, it is not in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16530	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16531	Although I don't understand that my amendment doesn't comply with the law, I don't know what law it doesn't comply with? But never mind, let's get over it. Of course, when someone asks to delete Article 1 by logic of things, it requires that Article 2 be deleted which says that this law, namely this supplement, enters into force on the eighth day of publication in the “Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia”. I don't think this intervention in the deposit insurance system is good. I must remind you that in 2007, it was the same story about the strength of our fund. At that time, Serbia, or the Fund, or Deposit Insurance Agency, lost 11.8 million dinars because it placed foreign funds in German securities. Because of the negative movements that happened for us, our agency lost 11.8 million dinars. It suggests that there are people in the Agency who don't know how to do this job. If you look at the composition of the Deposit Insurance Agency, there are people from the failed ‘Universal Bank’. If they were unsuccessful at Universal Bank, why would they be successful at the Deposit Insurance Agency? There's no reason to doubt their failure. I think this law, and the next one that comes on the agenda, should be moved and not adopted by these changes. I understand that the state needs to take some funds off some account to fill in the budget holes. I can understand that. But those funds should be downloaded in some who are profitable, not in some who serve as a guarantee and as some security. The purpose of this Fund is to have the funds with him. If these funds are placed somewhere, engaged, it must be either short-term or limited. Be careful, there is now an amendment adopted by the proposing that a quarter of these funds, so 14 and a half billion euros, is a deposit to be provided. The fund has about 140 and a few million, each three months the Fund gets 21m euros on the basis of premiums paid by these banks. Those funds need to be stable, mobile, so they can intervene. Because if what happens is announced by the Commercial Bank and people start raising their deposits and their savings, what happens? There will be a stampede on the financial and banking market. And the state doesn't have the means to calm this situation down with timely intervention, to pay off deposits within 30, 40 days. Remember what happened in 2012 with the New Agrobank trip and those banks that went bankrupt? I don't suspect it will happen, I don't want it to happen, but this is how it saves and the depositors lose their safety. With respect to all data that, say, natural persons account for 71% of total deposits, foreign deposits are 88%, this suggests the possibility of a stampede on the banking market. The team before almost 80% of all deposits are so-called. Short term, by sight, or with three months due, six months. In the event of a slight change in the market, our Deposit Insurance Agency will not be able to intervene and calm the stampede that can happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16532	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16533	Thanks again. With gratitude to the amendment's promoter for reminding us of the failures of the 2007 Dossow regime, however, I call for it not to be accepted. First, because I think we need to pass a complete law, and secondly, because I think I'm also a pronoun, proposing an amendment, and not erasing it in Article 1, he feels the same way. As far as questions that the law is concerned, it is not fully respected, and it is in the government's explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16534	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16535	I would just like to remind myself of something that the proposal's representative, Minister Vujovic, said in a principle debate last week, and that is exactly what shows that there is no danger of putting citizens' deposits at risk. So, even if there was this situation that my colleague was talking about, which is that some part of the banking system is going down, which I don't think is real, we still have in reserve a loan from the IBRD, or reserved funds from the IBRD that are just for this purpose. So, even if there was such a development of a situation that I say is very unlikely, or almost incredible, we can react. And that the funds that we have at the Deposit Insurance Fund are, at that point, armed with some longer term, we can react by withdrawing a loan from the IBRD that we already have reserved and thus reacting. Therefore, the resources of citizens, i.e. the savings of citizens, as well as the savings of entrepreneurs, micro-small and medium-sized enterprises, are not in any way at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16536	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16537	Thank you. I'm distracting myself that I'm going to use the time of the authorized exhibitor. It's pretty clear what this is all about. We suggested that it be deleted, i.e. to rephrase that the law enters into force on the eighth day following the publication and we said it would take effect the next day. Why? Because here is the promoter here and those who defend this law, or these changes, insist on urgency and on the need to preserve and preserve the resources of citizens. In that sense, if this proposal came to the proceedings on 12 May, if a session of the Assembly was scheduled on 17 May, if a session was held on 18 May, or a meeting of the Assembly, then, when it is so urgent, when, as the promoter said, a public debate was avoided precisely because of the importance and urgency of the situation to prevent the outflow or potential loss that we have, that citizens know what it is, it is that the Agency is obliged to hold foreign bank foreign currency assets, and the parties are giving negative interest at this point. In other words, the State pays foreign banks to keep funds in these banks, i.e. the Agency in this particular case. We pay to keep our money, for the safety of the Serbian state. In that sense, when it is so urgent, when with it, I would say the humiliation of the Assembly and, in any case, the harassment of the MPs, we saw that fellow Members of the congregation had a problem providing quorum, because their MPs were found to be scheduled from yesterday, that is, for tomorrow, for all these reasons, when it is so urgent, and urgency is the main argument and preservation of funds, or not further spending of taxpayers' money, then it is best to take effect the day after the publication. Of course, I don't think it's going to fail now and some big money is going to be spent there, but it is important, because I would remind dear colleagues that how much last week we adopted the amendment of the same content, or similar content, on the proposal for a law on judges, proposed by counterpart Petar Petrovic. Notice, for example, why it was urgent for the Law on Judges to enter into force on the day following the publication in “The Official Messenger, ” when it is indeed the usual term for eight days. So this one arrived the day after the announcement, and it seems estimated that some judges in the meantime will have to retire or for some other reason. It is not explained what the urgency was for the Law on Judges to come into force the day after the publication, and this law, which is more important, is about more important matter, at the very end of the line, according to the usual procedure. As I said, everything was urgent, there was an atmosphere of urgency, and in that sense, I would say, it makes sense for this amendment to be adopted. I would also like, for this first, or debate, to rely on what my colleague Krasic said, to have the impression that here, even when the amendments are the most well-meaning, and so I understood this amendment, as well as this amendment of ours, as if there was one will, an effort not to adopt even constructive amendments because they come from the opposition. I would say, in a concrete case, that he could show good will to the team before Minister Vujovic, too, during the debate just demonstrated that kind of readiness for a tolerated and reasoned dialogue. I agreed with that. I think this amendment, colleague Tomic, which went in the same spirit as our previously rejected amendment, was only that we specifically defined it and went to a more comprehensive solution, not an ad hoc solution. What was the meaning of our solution? That the funds of this Fund can be invested in domestic charters of values issued by the state of Serbia, or the National Bank, without this restriction only while the world foreign exchange market's extraordinary circumstances persist. I recognize no trust in domestic factors or institutions that may make sense, but we are already in some way making it easier for our institutions and agencies and the National Bank to invest in domestic securities of value with these changes, which are proposed. Why wouldn't that be a principle? Why doesn't that be a principle, so if someone makes a mistake and makes a mistake about it, then he's responsible for being sanctioned. In this I recognize the reflection or echo of a neoliberal philosophy and ideology and economic policy, which has ruled for years in Serbia, and especially for the last decade and more, after which everything that is domestically bad is, all that is foreign is good. So, foreign banks are good even when they give a negative foreign exchange interest, and the popular domestic market, domestic companies, domestic companies, and domestic banks are, apriors, rust and bad. No, we've seen foreign banks fail, we've seen foreign banks eat up their clients, as well as domestic companies, domestic companies, and even domestic banks can operate successfully. So it always depends on people like we talked about the other law. It always depends on people and institutions. In that sense, I think it is a mistake not to adopt our amendment that gives in some way more opportunities, more maneuvering space, both to the National Bank and to the Deposit Agency, at the end of the state of Serbia, to have those resources at their disposal, with risk and responsibility, of course, which, with these greater powers go. If they have greater authority to assess what is better, what is more profitable for the fund and what is more profitable for the state of Serbia. So, in some ways, we just kind of loosened up this solution that they had to invest in foreign financial institutions, but we didn't essentially take off that kind of obligation, and the explanation that was given in the rejection of that previous amendment, I don't think it stands, because it's kind of on the line and on the trail and, as I said, the devastating neoliberal ideology and philosophy that all domestically bad and all the foreign good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16538	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16539	We in this amendment, specifically me personally, respecting the explanation I've heard, have a few technical problems. The first thing I wrote down here was the urgency of the procedure. These funds are not currently in the account of the Deposit Insurance Agency. It's the means and there you've made another mistake. The Deposit Insurance Agency does not place funds to foreign banks, it does, in fact, do, for it is the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, who is the committee, or works in their interest, and for the Agency's account. That's why these funds are currently in the account so that we can react without delay today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. We, by this law, actually create a trunk to the National Bank, give authority to the funds that are in place, which comes from the Deposit Insurance Agency. They can be placed today in the next time period, in five days, those funds have already been placed on some of the terms and conditions, and can't be withdrawn so quickly, right now. When I say it right now, it means she can retire in two, three days, but today doesn't mean anything. It's about funds that are highly liquid and when you say this is a concept of neoliberalism, it's actually a concept that has been functioning in the banking sector of central banks for 200 years, 100 years since there's been a central bank. It is not primarily for these funds to be and to bring income, it is primarily for these funds to be liquid. Minister Vujovic, and what I know is that he told me very much in the debate, these funds are not placed by the National Bank in any bank or by a foreign bank that exists on the domestic market. First of all, there are records of the value of three or four countries, which have the right to draw, and which are credit ratings AA plus, in foreign banks, there are probably three or four, which are highly profitable and liquid banks, and which, practically, are not on the domestic market, and if there were, we wouldn't place them. The point is, you are right, we have moved in the Committee on Budgets of this law that 25% of the funds are placed in charters of the value of domestic sources, but in the short term, because there is no and there will be no other mechanism that will enable the effective availability of funds by the Deposit Insurance Agency and the National Bank, except by placing into the most liquid financial resources of foreign states in securities of value and foreign banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16540	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16541	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, that in this debate they would not remain unsettled about the level of foreign reserves, and because of the citizens of Serbia, so as not to have any skepticism about the level of foreign reserves being threatened at all by certain legal proposals, I consider it my obligation to say that on the website of the National Bank of Serbia you can see information about the level of foreign reserves. At the end of April 2017, it amounted to 9,409.4m euros, providing coverage of M1 of 200% and six months of imports of goods and services, which is twice the standards that identify an adequate level of coverage of services and goods to these reserves. At the same time, it should be said that the net foreign exchange reserve, which has been reduced to bank foreign exchange funds, was recalculated at the end of April 7,721m euros according to IMF courses, which follow the implementation of the programme itself, higher by 1,589m euros compared to the projected minimum of foreign exchange reserves that we predicted when we were actually working on an arrangement and agreement with the IMF. This shows that this government is indeed leading one responsible fiscal policy and that when we talk about the level of foreign reserves, Serbian citizens have no fear that in the future they will indeed be preserved, and this is one of the basics on which the amendments and addition of the law will be able to be made on the basis of positive interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16542	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16543	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was thinking of voting for this amendment until the motionary began to explain it. For years, I listened to the promoter, who had just advocated RTS as an analyst, a journalist, performed on all televisions, advocated elements of neoliberal politics, did not criticise the signing of the SAA, which he himself had almost participated in, and his coalition partner, through whom he came to the Assembly, agreed on the SAA, initialled it, and envisioned the sale of real estate to foreigners. I don't know what opinion the promoter had right, did you what...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16544	About my colleague Ristic's amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16545	About the amendment, of course. I wanted to vote for what the promoter had suggested, until he started to explain, and you obviously didn't listen well to the explanation, so that you could hear the elements of the patriotic economy, which came from a man who came here through a coalition partner, and this coalition partner while he ruled, for example, took a 1.8 billion company out of Serbian hands and sold it to foreigners. It is unacceptable for me now to vote in favour of this amendment, although I have thought about it, because the promoter is the most famous Vlach politician convinced me that it is not worth voting for what he is proposing, because there is no constant, or today he talks as an analyst, tomorrow he talks to the other as a politician. That's why I can't vote for this amendment even though at first I thought it was worth voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16546	MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16547	I thank my colleague Kovacevic and my colleague Tomic for the explanations, or explanations, but I don't think it's against what I said. So, I was just paying attention to some kind of illogicality that the bill enters the procedure by emergency procedure, that the urgency of justice is that there is no public debate. It is in the proposal that came to us from the government, to explain by urgency that the session is scheduled for tomorrow, and that in the end, now that I go and say this logic – so when it is so urgent then let the day after the adoption come, then it is appropriate for me, as it is not so urgent. I agree that it will not be the best if it comes into effect on the eighth day and not the first day after the announcement, but I would draw attention to the fact that last week we adopted an amendment to the Law amending the Law on Judges, the day after the publication in the Official List, because someone was in a hurry. I ask, why was it such a rush for the Justice Act to come into effect the day after the publication, and there is no hurry for this law, which we agree is in the right direction, I just don't think it's enough in the right direction, that it hasn't gone on brave enough in that direction to defend the possibility of national resources, so to speak, that in this respect it should have been more determined. As for these comments we heard in the end, it's really not worth commenting on, it's known that I never supported the SAA, I never supported, if anything consistent, it's my Euroscepticism. Unfortunately, I am afraid because I was right and more than I thought when I criticised that European course of Serbia, especially the situation in which the EU is presently. So, it's okay to be and on the eighth day just please, I urge that we be consistent and constructive, that if last week was an emergency to get into the Judges' Law the next day, and we know why it was, and the citizens may not know, but they assume what it is, someone has to retire, in those eight days, why don't this law that guards the resources or generally cares about the resources of the Serbian state, why don't it take effect right after publication? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16548	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16549	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in order to avoid confusion, I was talking about the coalition partner with whom my colleague entered parliament, initialling the SAA. Apparently, he didn't mind entering parliament with such a party, and now he's upset when someone reminds him of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16550	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by MPs Milorad Mirčić, Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović, Zdravko Stankovic, Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Ivan Kostić, Dragan Vesović, Miladin Ševarlic, Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Tomic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamović, Natasa Mićić, Olena Papuga, Nenad Canak, Zarko Korać, Nenad Milić, Bajro Gegić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Đorđe Vukadinović, Slavisa Ristic and Marijan Risticevic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Zoran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with us Serbian radicals, the question arises -- why is this much mistrust in foreign securities markets of value, even in the words they say in the government's proposal to supplement this law says -- if there are any disturbances or negative interest? Isn't that slogan, or the password, that Europe doesn't have an alternative yet? Is the market so unstable in Europe that securities of value are bought on a domestic market that does not work? Here's one example of how and how the domestic market works with securities of value. In the last few months, a transaction has been made about the price of one used car, or one used vehicle, so we don't understand how the government's mistrust in this market, or the bank's? This is about, however, deposited money, but this is one of the options for these foreign currency assets being deposited in certain banks. A second option is that the National Bank in the securities market increases the value of the assets managed by the Agency. What's still being raised as a question, and we're asking it, that the public hears it, that's -- what's the point after this agency even exists? The Fund, as a fund, okay, we can sort of understand that there are these means that guarantee one particular security for the possible compensation of the savings, but if there is one representative of the government on the board of directors of this agency, one representative of the NBS, and three experts, now with this change proposed by the Government, the real question is -- why is this agency, when everything is under the authority of the Government, and so on and so on in the event of any damage or any change in the account of this agency. The government will intervene with certain funds, so that we should still listen to Serbian radicals and think well not only about this agency, that by abolishing this agency, but all agencies, because these are parallel systems that operate within the political system, and are parallel to certain sectors of the administration, or ministries that already exist. That is why we Serbian radicals use the opportunity when we propose this amendment to amend, allowing this change proposed by the Government to be deleted, we simply want to make the government think in the future whether it is justified to have such funds in this way at all, and first of all to take advantage of the opportunity for who knows which way again in public to emphasize the needlessness of the existence of powerful agencies that have their own infrastructure, have their own boards, have directors, services that have not so little income and are an additional burden on their backs and of so poor citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16552	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16553	Thank you very much, and again briefly. I call for the reasons given by the amendment promoter not to be accepted. He's got his counter-explanation received by the government. So, the same thing that the promoter himself noticed in one of his comments, which is one of the intensities of this bill. Yes, it is confirmed, it is one of the facilities, i.e. the corresponding income should be realised. If the main concern is that this amendment abolishs the agency, I have news, it's not the subject of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16554	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Milorad Mircic, you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16555	Apparently, a young colleague is well informed as soon as he has come to the realization that he is not subject to an amendment to the Agency's abolition, which is my great pleasure. That's either what you heard or someone read it to you, I guess. But it's not about that, it's not about burning up with the opposition, with us Serbian radicals. The point is to start once the topic that makes up a big problem for the citizens. You can verbally avoid solutions proposed by the SRS and many others. However, you will inevitably be in a situation where you have to think about whether you are looking for anything in this Europe at all, especially to deposit funds, to take loans, but the inevitable is before you rationally reduce the functioning of the executive and any other government in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16556	Thank you. The word has Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16557	Since this is, in some respects, or to a large extent, and my portfolio, I would just like to say that I am glad that it has started to think about optimizing the state of administration and the efficient functioning of the state administration. The government of the Republic of Serbia began to think about it in 2013. So, finally, in the term of the previous government, the number of officials, as well as the number of agencies, was counted. It's going into the optimization of the state administration and at this point we're going with an action plan for optimization, so it's under control. So, the number of agencies, what these agencies are doing, whether they are being doubled and what is being paid by taxpayers' money is finally under control in the Republic of Serbia thanks to the previous government and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16558	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16559	Same as the previous member, that is, the previous law. Actually, they're connected. The point is that the government has no confidence in itself in some way, as it is from this argument because our amendment proposal was said not to accept the amendment since it would potentially violate the concept of diversification by considering that in this case potentially 100% of the funds would be invested in government securities of value in dinars and foreign currency. So, potentially. Who's gonna decide that? If that's a good solution and a valid solution, then let's make it 100% of the funds invested in domestic and state securities of value. If not a good solution, then, if the solution is bad, whether it is invested in foreign or domestic securities of value. That, therefore, was our first and this present proposal. So, in some ways, we increase the responsibility and rights, but also the responsibility of the state, i.e. the Agency and the Fund and, of course, the National Bank, so let them deal with it as they deal with it. If they wear well, well done! If they behave badly, they'll be held accountable. So, as I would say, I find it unusual for the government to reject a proposal for an amendment that in some ways gives them more room for manoeuvre. Just a word or two more about these agencies. I hope that rationalization will come, that it will go in the direction of rationalization or, as you said, Mrs. Brnabic, under the control that it was placed. I don't have that impression. I know it's a little demagogue, sounds to me, to talk about having all the agencies shut down. And you and I, and God and everyone who understands each other, know that not all agencies can be abolished, but the only question is that they are rationalized, their work to optimalize. I can't see, but you cheer me up, surprise me, what's rationalized and what's optimal and what's reduced, after all, from the number of agencies compared to the previous government, which we've criticised so much. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16560	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16561	And here I call again not to be accepted, respecting the opinions we have received from the government. So once again the diversification needs to be based on the law. The proposal we received from the Government implies certain conditions for something to be realised in a certain way. As proposed by the amendment, it would be without any preconditions or any possible basis. As for the proponent's interest in abolishing any clause that would undermine the possibility of good solutions being applied permanently, another good news, was assured by the adoption of an amendment proposed by counterpart Tomic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16562	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16563	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the Deposit Insurance Agency and how it should exist, unlike some colleagues, who are experts in financial resources. We have colleagues who have never bought tickets, but have regularly won the lottery of Serbia, regularly. (Zoran Krasic: What are you looking at me for? I expect Mr. Krasic to confirm that. I don't think it's you, but you know who I'm talking about. He regularly won Serbia's lottery as a top critic of the neoliberal economy, Tadic and Kostunica. He regularly won the lottery, one big Vlach politician, but he didn't buy any tickets. Today would be about to end the Deposit Insurance Agency. "Agrobanka" and "Vojvodine Development Bank", we have not heard a word of criticism from the previous amendment promoter, although he knows well that the Agency has had to react specifically there. That these banks were in a bullpen for, I don't know, 600, 700m euros, that they were down, and it's interesting that at the time, when he was criticising it and winning the lottery, Luther was down. Therefore, I think we must no longer allow us to enter the situation as with Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank and other state capital banks, and that this agency can fertilise funds by buying securities of value and what belongs to the banks that these funds belong to the Agency, i.e. that these funds are multiplied. With that, I will withdraw my amendment, but it was my desire to say that the government is right, that this law is good, and that it provides deposits, and in this new way, these funds are fertilized and what once belonged to the banks will now belong to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16564	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16565	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm asking you to advertise Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is carried out. I ask you, indeed, to bring an argument to the amendments, that not everyone here can say what comes to his mind. Every time someone from the Democratic Party shows up, if they get very little off the subject, you take away the word, give us one, two or three warnings for one mistake, so I ask you to be objective and be equal to everyone. There are no topics on the agenda, you allow government members to tell lies about members, primarily DS and the entire opposition. I know you're not gonna get in the way of this, but then let us tell the opposition what we want and don't take our word and think you'll shut us up by giving us one, two, or three warnings, you're throwing us out of the O.R. If you kick us out of the O.R., there'll be a hall on the street, which we as a state-run party don't support, but I'm asking you to be objective to everyone. Last time you gave me two warnings for a second, for no reason at all. If you have such arches, we agree, but have such arches toward all. If you don't have such arches, then let us from the DS talk about something that's not in line with the agenda. And let me ask – where does the Secretary of State get 400,000 to buy a villa? Now you'll probably take my word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16566	No, I'm giving you a warning now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16567	A warning? Well done. You just proved what I'm talking about. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16568	I'm obliged to respond to my colleagues' injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The rights and oppositions and authorities and counterparts, Marijan Risticevic, were fully leveled when he explained the previous amendment, he was warned to return to the topic and point of the agenda and he did so. Now the same thing, about the first minute, I've already turned my microphone on to distract him, but he's back on the subject. And you, if you want to present yourselves as victims here in the National Assembly, I won't let you. I won't even let you abuse the right of the MPs here in the National Assembly, so if you don't understand anything, go to the press conference, ask questions to the secretary of state that we don't choose, and you'll get answers. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16569	I thank the chairman. Article 109. A reminder is given to the Messenger of the people, and there are a number of reasons why you could give a warning to the Messenger of the people who had just threatened the messengers of the people and to you in person. So he used an expression "a street" and so on. I have to ask - how long are we going to take the threats from Mr. Milojicic?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16570	A fellow Milojicic received a warning for your information?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16571	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16572	He's been warned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16573	Now he's got a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16575	I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16576	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16577	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I apologize to you too, Mr. Chairman, and I raised the Rules of Procedure before my colleagues Markovic. I'm advocating Article 103, paragraphs 7 and 8. On occasions like earlier, before Mr Markovic, you should have given me those two minutes, that is to say, to the parliamentary group that abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to take those two minutes. A team before, here and now they're breaking the Rules of Procedure, a team before, I didn't mention DS. I mentioned the Vojvodina Development Bank, I didn't know it was the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16578	I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. Djordje Vukadinović, the People's MP, has the word:
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16579	Thank you. It's like some MPs are bored doing what's supposed to be done here in the Assembly and then trying a little bit, whether they're getting points somewhere or simply having fun, because I'm bored of them talking about members and concrete legal solutions. I don't know how much that makes sense, but I'm talking about those who listen and follow and still trust in the National Assembly and its institutions. So, no, I was here talking right against the suspension. So, not for ending this agency. I don't know how that's not clear. I know that some of the harder things and the more complicated ones may not understand, but that the exact opposite of what you're saying is, then I just don't know how to react. So you need rationalization, you need to apply some logic, but we can't cancel all the agencies. That's what I explicitly said. Our amendments have only given more room for manoeuvre and more responsibility to the government and the National Bank to manage these funds. That was the rational meaning of our proposal, but it looks like someone here is in charge of spoiling everything that looks like a constructive debate and a constructive debate. As there are people, whether they have authorized or given them the task of simply disrupting the atmosphere and dignity of the National Assembly, so that citizens can then conclude that in that congregation they are only being beaten. No, therefore, all of these illusions and insinuations are complete nonsense, nothing to do with the truth. After all, we see how these public enterprises are operating now, and how they've done business before. Let's do better, let's make it worse. So I feel neither called nor invited to answer. But I have to tell you, dear colleagues, because we're all here on the same job, every announcement, every address, you have a great advantage in both voices and resources, and everything else, but every address and every announcement by Mr. Marijan Rističević actually ruins your rating, the rating of Alexander Vukic, whether you like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16580	Please, colleague Vukadinovic, on the subject. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16581	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am concerned after this presentation for my rating. I'm going to have to go to some Vlach politicians. From what I understand, I didn't need a translation, I didn't see the difference between the Vlach and the Serbian language. I didn't need the translation, but I saw that the grudge was with the chatter. Literally, a former colleague said that some of the explanations were chatter. I'm not gonna tell him that. I'm just reminding him, is it true that he's been paid more than once by the lottery of Serbia without buying tickets? Is it true what I said or not true? Does my colleague want us to ban the truth in this House? Did someone, say, my esteemed colleague as a representative of an analyst company, get money from Lottery of Serbia, yes or no? Is it true that Serbia's lottery ended in a downfall because of such donations? It's a unique lottery in the world that's dealt with a minus, although there's a profit rate right now of 50%. So, this Tadic government shared its hand and hat and apparently shared it with a colleague of mine who identified himself. Furthermore, I was saying that during the rule of his coalition partner, some companies left the Serbian hands of foreigners in the current elections. The land was someone during the party's rule through which he also ended up with foreigners, and he was some patriotic politician who criticised it and joined the parliament with them. Is it true that I've spoken or not, that's the main one, and I don't know where it leads to my colleague who declares the truth by banging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16582	Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16583	Some think it's wrong to answer colleagues, some of them have other strategies, but I just because of the respect of this home and the citizens who look at us are still a little masochistic. So, no, let's just absorb it once, the story of the Vlachs, the lottery and the rest. So, no, the lottery was doing very well at the time that I was working together with them and doing research on a species. Secondly, not at all, the point is that I supported a minority list, not changing nationality and everything else, supported a minority list that entered parliament, not me personally, but her representative. So much for the story of the Vlach language, the Vlach magic, the Lottery and the rest. The lottery went into debt, by the way, much later when some others started doing it and wanted to deprive Serbia and all other public enterprises, and I am afraid of both EPS and Telekom to sell them more easily. That's the essence, dear citizens and dear colleagues of mine. So, to devalue public enterprises by setting up incompetent directors, uneducated directors, owners of roasters and semi-criminals, and then we're surprised that such businesses do bad business. No, at the time they were doing some better, some worse. And when we ask public companies to invest in the state budget, to pay as much into the state budget as possible to boast of good resources, then we shoot those public enterprises down. Perhaps the EPS problems, I see, are also Mr Antic, perhaps part of it, and because EPS was asked to pay more than she invested in depreciation. I've got half a minute left, and half a minute is valuable. What I have to say on these subjects is I have told Mr. and Master Mr. Risticevic, but I am sorry for the ruling majority, I am sorry Mr. Vukic for being represented here in the Assembly by people as my distinguished predecessor. If you think that's going to be useful, it's because someone's going to keep mentioning sick kids, Vlachs and lotterys, it's your wrong idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16584	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16585	Replica, he mentioned me and it was very offensive. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a replica. My colleague admitted that he was getting money from the lottery. He has not yet admitted that Luttria was down, but in the course of the session I will collect and that the Serbian Luttrija was at the time when Boris Tadic and Kostunica ruled... Here, you see, they talk about my culture, you see their culture. So, at the time of their reign, Luther gave such money and was at a disadvantage. He admitted one thing, and the other he said he supported the Vlaška party list and lied again, i.e. I'm sorry. I'll bring the list from above and you'll find very nicely that the gentleman who appeared before me, Djordje Vukadinovic, on a list I respect extremely, was second on the list of Vlaška parties called "None of the answers offered" on the list of candidates. So the candidate does not support the list, a political analyst needs to know that, but he is a candidate for the Vlaska Party, which was called "None of the answers offered". With me in the dialogue, he can't help even the weeds of magic. What he said was I'm some kind of master's servant. So, I'm just myself. My party is registered with 10-14 thousand signatures, as I recall, unlike his association of citizens who are being smuggled as a political party, and not a political party, and can get money from abroad, is not subject to the Anti-Corruption Agency, their control, what my party does and what it does. So there's no citizens themselves decide whether it's forbidden to tell the truth or not, and I'm still saying I was telling the truth and I'm going to prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16586	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The foundation is more than famous. He can wave by tomorrow as far as I'm concerned. By the way, I had a wish and to report to the Rules of Procedure, but now that I have this basis, I will do it. I wanted to report to the Rules of Procedure because we attended a completely unacceptable violation of dignity, to mention some servants and masters of fellow Members of the National Assembly, to mention the chatter. When did those beautiful and so high-cultural and empacipians and the educated hear us tell them to talk? It's totally unacceptable. It is unacceptable because, in the same sentence, in the same breath, someone here is hearing on behalf of, imagine, Serbian citizens who believe in institutions, that someone here comes out of respect for this home, knowing who it is. Now I can't help but ask all those present here and everyone who's watching this, in the name of which citizens think it's going to be? On behalf of the citizens who supported the burning of the House of the National Assembly, out of respect for this House? He thinks he represents those who respect institutions, and he didn't respect institutions enough when he burned them, when he either participated or supported them, and there's no difference? It's a relationship both to the state and to the people, and also to this House here. Maybe he started to respect the institutions in the meantime. Does he respect enough to warn his presidential candidate that he should somehow explain the millions in the presidential campaign? Does he respect them enough to ask the question not only the sources of certain finances, but also whose account is being played by millions, for which criminals and who are being presented? Does it respect the institutions and this parliament enough not to form a parliamentary group on behalf of millionaires who did not participate in the elections for parliament, or may not respect anything more than just that money, in which it appears to be the essence of the whole story, which was said by those who kicked him out of the previous club for trying a rocket for 300,000 dinars per month? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16588	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16589	I'm advertising Article 107 first position, but without it, it's unfortunate that you wouldn't have given me the right to a replica if I hadn't advertised this Rules of Procedure. So if there's an example of a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, then that's what my predecessors say here and that's pretty clearly more or less to everyone. So I started thinking maybe it's a mistake to talk and answer to someone, but I'm saying it for the citizens and for the public. None of this is true, nor have I burned the congregation, nor have I supported the burning of the congregation. There are texts and written clues about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16590	Comrade Vukadinovic, you have begun to witness the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16591	Excuse me, allow me to explain why this is a violation of Parliament's dignity, of falseness, of direct, of fact. As far as other matters are concerned, I didn't support the SAA or its signing. As far as these other things are concerned, they're the things that are saddened, they're court slanders, and I'm the ones who filed such claims...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16592	Will you explain to me where I broke the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16593	Why didn't you warn your colleague Rističević that you didn't warn him, that you didn't take away his word and that you didn't warn him about the things he said here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16594	A colleague of Vukadinovic, just to tell you, if I had told my colleague Rističević a warning, you would have had it, too. You'd get it. The same things you did in the Assembly. We're moving on with our work. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16595	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who follow this direct transfer of the assembly session and respected Mr. Minister with associates, the proposed amendment, the Serbian Movement Dveri wanted to point to a new and additional possibility that the Deposit Insurance Agency could open to the very domestic economic interest. The proposed addition of the Law prescribes an exceptional possibility for the Agency to invest deposits in foreign debt securities from the value of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, which has not been the case so far, and only in special circumstances, while the situation with negative interest rates on deposits in the central banks of the Western countries and large investment banks is continuing. However, the negative interest rates only reveal that so far we have been in a kind of colonial position towards foreign banks and that we are just now liberating the possibility of our own state institutions to invest our resources in our foreign exchange records from the values of our institutions, the state of Serbia and the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there is a good question under which conditions we have kept our secured deposits with foreign financial institutions so far, and under what conditions they give us loans and where our interest lies. What is a major and significant novelty here, Mr. Chairman, I will also use the time authorised to further explain this amendment, is that this amendment proposes a dedicated investment in debt charters of the value of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia aimed at developing domestic economy and building infrastructure facilities, which would allow the development of the Serbian state through the engagement of domestic economy and domestic labour. What do we get by that? It would increase the size of the domestic economy, increase employment, increase tax revenues on various grounds, while at the same time the budget deficit and the foreign balance of payments deficit would be significantly reduced. This amendment therefore constitutes a measure of protection of domestic economic interest. What does that mean exactly? This specifically means that you have now come to terms with this amendment to the law, which we absolutely understand and support from the corner of protecting our finances, in fact only the first time we have ever been able to own funds, foreign funds from the fund available to the Deposit Insurance Agency, which protects the stakes in the banks here, to invest in foreign debt records from the values issued by the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia themselves. So, we've been able to do it so far. Why haven't we done that before? Why do we keep this country dependent on foreign financial monetary institutions? The second question – why don't we put these debt charters of foreign currency value into function of domestic economic development? In the context of the Government's reasoning, since this amendment has been rejected, we have received an argument that these assets of the Deposit Insurance Fund are used to pay the secured amounts of deposits with the corresponding payment costs in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation of the bank, financing of the bank's restructuring process and other procedures and costs, above all, the agency itself and the loaned funds. So, according to this argument of the Government, there is no possibility that our own resources, our foreign debt securities, are being invested in our domestic economy and in infrastructure works in the state of Serbia. We think it's wrong. We believe that in the same way that we are in debt at foreign centres we can borrow from our National Bank of Serbia and that we use these funds, our own resources, I repeat, to put in place a craft in the domestic economy. I understand that this is a heretic thought of a neo-oliberal dogma and economists who have ruled Serbia since 5 October 2000 and who know everything they have learned from the World Bank and the IMF and have never thought about how else we can from our own sources of funding to finance the development of domestic economic activities and major infrastructure works in Serbia. Our interest is to turn our resources around in our country, to borrow from our National Bank of Serbia or from the Serbian Development Bank, which we do not have, and to practically raise employment, raise tax revenues and raise economic activity in the state of Serbia. That's what I really want to tell you here because I think you've avoided the possibility of opening one of these economic perspectives. There, a fellow MP from the ruling regime said one key question, which is – what is the primary? In our opinion, the opinion of the Serbian Dvora Movement, it is primarily for us right now to put domestic economic resources into development potential, to get opportunities by the state to buy new technologies, machines, that people can employ new workers, that these new workers fill our budget with taxes and contributions to the domestic economy, to reverse large infrastructure works financed from their own sources of funding. If we have to owe someone else, why don't we owe our National Bank of Serbia, why don't we give her back what we pay back to foreign banks? So, Mr. Antic, here, as a socialist, you're a man who should be, in theory, for someone who holds on to the importance of state regulation in the economy, is this what I'm talking about meaningful and why has no one ever been allowed to engage in this kind of economic thinking? On several occasions, I had the opportunity to talk to your colleague Dusan Bayatovic, who even publicly in the media said that this is the right economic reason, that this is the right thing for the domestic economy, but that no regime, counting on the former in which you were like the SPS and the current in which you are now, simply should not have credited your own economic development and domestic economy in this way. Of course, since the distinguished Minister Ana Brnabic left this meeting of the National Assembly, I would have to draw attention to one of her comments we heard, which actually speaks of that we have not yet cleared up with the problems why such a deposit insurance agency must compensate for the failures of bankruptcy, restructuring and the overall collapse of the banking sector in Serbia. So it's naive to talk about reducing employees in the state administration, when we all know that SNS is still employed by temporary and occasional contracts. On the other hand, state agencies, which we had as a promise pre-election since 2012 that there would be a reduction in the number of state agencies...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16596	I'd like you to return to your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16597	So, Mr. Chairman, the essence of my amendment is just saying that the resources available to this country should be placed in the role of domestic economic development. These funds are being questioned when, for example, we have to solve the problem of failed banks run by the party elite at the head of the boards of directors and boards. So, do you understand the clear connection? Instead of investing those funds in domestic economy, we invest them in saving the failed banks managed by the party chamber, and no one was ever responsible for the destruction of 10 domestic state banks. That these domestic state banks, run by party personnel and all parties of government, have not been destroyed. We would have the opportunity to invest these banks in domestic economy, to invest in the population, to have the launch of domestic economic development, not to spend a complete fund, which exists to secure deposits in Serbia, because we had to save what the parties in power have ruined. So that's my very specific question to Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister, who is responsible for the current collapse of state banks in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16598	I'm asking you again to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16599	Mr. Chairman, thank you, you're very kind. What I want to say for the end – whether in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia we will finally open a debate that says that the non-oliberal economic concept is not the only economic concept in this world, that borrowing from foreign monetary institutions is not the only way of lending and investing in our own domestic economy, that there are independent, own sources of funding that you can use as we have suggested in this amendment, that these foreign, debt charters of value issued by the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia are placed in the function of domestic economic development and are placed in the function of domestic and economic interest through major infrastructure works. The funds will return to the same fund, so of course, it will continue to play its primary role to protect and secure deposits in banks in Serbia. So we won't lose those funds because we invest them in domestic economy and large infrastructure works. On the contrary, we will turn these funds around, launch domestic economic activity, employ new people, fill the budget through taxes and contribute to new employees and return those funds to a fund that provides a deposit in Serbia. Well, I think economic logic is very simple. We turn our own money, start our own business activity, secure this fund, and this fund can still stand at its disposal, even profit if these funds are wisely invested in what is a quality domestic business activity. If we're looking at the case, to explain to you, that domestic information technology, that is, that the capacities of domestic computerists, software operators, complete information technology, are actually so great that we can increase our production, our exports to modern IT technologies, let's invest this precisely in new companies, in new employment, in this sector that certainly brings profit, let's see what other sectors of domestic economy are in which we can invest these assets from the Deposit Insurance Agency, to also start domestic economic activity and to do the most important thing that should be the goal of any economic thought, to replace the imports of domestic production, to finally stop the import lobby that imports here all of what we can produce and to make it here. That's the essence of the story. So, we're going to have domestic production, we're going to have new employment, we're going to have a fuller budget through new taxes and contributions, and since we're going to invest exclusively in profit-based domestic industries, these funds are going to come back to our fund, and the Deposit Insurance Agency is going to be stable and the fund will be guaranteed all those investments that have domestic savings in domestic banks. I think it's time, dear fellow MPs, to free up the thought of an alternative and different economy than the one you've been forced here for 17 years and that has ruled Serbia from the time of Mladjan Dinkic to his best student, Aleksandr Vukic, who is today Dinkic's boss, who advises him in the government. I think I made myself very clear. You haven't changed anything in the basic economic concept and we offer you a concrete solution that you can take and that as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Antić, if you're a real socialist, if you're not faking that you're a socialist, then let's invest state resources in state banks in domestic economy, in large infrastructure works and thus actually avoid colonial position and debt slavery to foreign monetary institutions. I think this is something of general interest, that you understand me perfectly what I'm talking about, and it's just a question of whether you have the courage to support one such amendment or simply for the sake of survival in power, you're ready to accept all the blackmails of the IMF, SB and foreign power centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16600	A fellow Martinovic, a replica or an amendment? By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that at that old communist time, this discussion was called Colloquial Mountains - Dolanc, or - from the hills, from the valley. Say what comes to mind, no one understands you, and whatever the subject is on the agenda, it spins the same thing, so if it goes away, it goes away. Approximately, the speech of a previous colleague seemed to be spoken in the Federal Assembly of the SFRY, there in the early 1980s, with a bunch of phrases, with a bunch of incorrect data, with some personal impressions, which have little to do with the real social and political life that is taking place in Serbia. We are constantly respected here, by the SNS as we allegedly hire someone, our party chamber, and the previous speaker, if I am not mistaken, is his first job, you correct me if I am wrong, whether I am in the City Library in Cačka, by hiring him Velimir Ilic. So Velja Ilic hired you at the City Library in Cačka and then after a few years you show up at the National Assembly and you say you SNS villains who hire through temporary and occasional contracts. Mr. Dolanc, who spoke a little bit or a friend, I don't know what he is anymore, because I don't know what his ideology is, he's a little left-handed, he's a little right-handed, so Mr. or Comrade Dolanc doesn't seem to know that when someone has concluded a contract on temporary and occasional transactions, he's not in any kind of working relationship, so there's no employment under the PP deal, and in particular there's no SNS. To go back to what is essential, the SNS is constantly imposing something that it does not advocate, this so-called neoliberal concept. It turns out that we are advocates of some liberal capitalism, not to worry about the rights of workers, to take care exclusively of investors who come from abroad that we are you, Mr. Arsic, who destroyed domestic banks. We respect it all and none of it's true. Domestic banks, for other Dolans, destroyed those with whom he went to the 2016 elections. During their term of office, all domestic banks were destroyed, during their term of office not only those 24 privatisations that are controversial from the European Commission's point of view, but almost all the privatisations made in Serbia. During his coalition partner, the famous SAA was signed, although they are now giving it up. They signed it, they ratified it, and they predicted that since 1 September 2017, foreigners can be property owners in the Republic of Serbia, including agricultural land, and now from session to session we have proposals to supplement the agenda to allegedly save Serbia from SNS' intention to sell land and real estate to foreigners, and they signed it and they voted for it, and we have already taken steps not to do so. The largest projects implemented today in Serbia, infrastructure, construction, are carried out precisely by domestic enterprises. So, Belgrade on the water, I'm saying this because of those who are threatening us on the street, the main contractor, there's Minister Antic, Belgrade on the water, is a domestic company called Energy Project, which has a renowned tradition of decades and has performed the most complex construction works around the world. For more than a year now, Serbia has been campaigning and has been running against Alexander Vukic and SNS for construction of Belgrade on water, as if Belgrade is being run by some firm from Finland or Sweden. Belgrade is being built on water by domestic firms. As for Mladjan Dinkic and his constant respect for how you run Mladjan Dinkic's policy, because of another Dolanc, he would have to know that, since he's sitting in session, he imposes it as a topic. According to current regulations in the Republic of Serbia, there are no foreign investors, so there are no investors directly investing money in the Republic of Serbia from abroad. Any foreign investor, if it wants to receive incentives in the Republic of Serbia, under the same conditions as a domestic investor, must be registered in the Republic of Serbia. I'm not saying this for another Dolan, because he obviously couldn't understand it in the Chacha library. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia. Dear citizens of Serbia, don't let them scare you of some foreign investors who run foreign affairs in the Republic of Serbia. Each foreign investor must have its own company in the Republic of Serbia, each company registered at the Business Registers Agency and each company employs workers from the Republic of Serbia, pays taxes in the Republic of Serbia, pays contributions, and Serbia has provided a mechanism to export capital from the Republic of Serbia in a way that is illegal and which is against the law. This is what I'm talking about for the citizens of Serbia. So, we take care of the interests of Serbian citizens, we don't implement. (National MPs talking at the same time)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16602	My colleagues, I did not warn my colleague Obradovic. He used to say everything here. I once warned Mr. Martinovic, would you like one more time? It's not a problem. But you're talking about the same thing, just from two different points of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16603	Mr. Arsic, I'm not saying the same thing, I'm trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16604	Excuse me, Mr. Martinovic, about the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16605	I'm talking about the same thing, but with two different aspects, because we, from the SNS, impose a concept that we don't stand for and that in the end, today in the world question whether or not there is any, pure liberal capitalism today doesn't exist anywhere, and that's what Comrade Dolanc should know. She doesn't even exist in the U.S., I guess Mrs. Jasmina Vujic taught a little of it, even there. The state must intervene in the economy for certain economic and financial reasons, especially in all countries of the European continent, as well as in the Republic of Serbia. All the measures the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken since 2014, are aimed at having more investment in the Republic of Serbia, to have GDP growth and to slowly create the basis that we can, among other things, increase public sector wages and that part of pensions that are temporarily reduced and what is very important, that we have enough funds in the domestic budget, in the budget of the Republic of Serbia to finance large infrastructure projects. It is a policy advocated by the SNS and implemented since 2014. So, a very clear government policy, an economically responsible policy, a policy that means a surplus in the budget and a policy that provides economic development, gradually, slowly, but from year to year, more and more. I would like to remind you that Serbia is in the Balkans today, one of the countries that has the biggest GDP growth and this says that the economy and our system of public finances are slowly but surely putting it on healthy feet. This is what I had an obligation to say, not because of another Dolan, and those who are constantly criticizing us and reading the written speeches, who knows where, I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia. Dear citizens of Serbia, we work for the benefit of citizens, we want more investment, we want more jobs, and those responsible for the destruction of domestic factories, for the destruction of domestic banks, those responsible for the collapse of the entire Serbian economy from 2000 to 2012, so all of them together, no matter what they call themselves, no matter what their ideological premise, are today fighting the SNS and accusing us of what they did in 12 years of their senseless rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16606	Right on the line. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16607	Thank you, Chairman. Your relationship with the City Library in Chačka and the idea that there are people who work in Serbian culture, the best thing about how you actually experience and treat culture in Serbia. For you, library and books is something that you obviously don't understand and that's beyond the video of your interest. Just don't insult library in Serbia and people who work in cultural institutions. I had the honour of working in one of the best Serbian libraries, the City Library – Vladislav Petkovic Dis in Cačka. As for that, when you, Mr. Martinovic, criticise my criticism of the neoliberal economic thought...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16608	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16609	It would be very desirable to remember, a fellow MP from the SNS at the time of the SRS, when he was telling very similar stories, and now he forgot that in his time he spoke very much about the neoliberal economy, like I did today. It's simple, the flyers have a short memory. When gentlemen from the ruling party attack the former regime, it would be their turn to report Mr. Nedo Jovanovic, the head of the SPS parliamentary group, and to respond to the insults that the former regime, which they did then, too. On the other hand, when we have a situation in which the previous speaker says that the SNS has never advocated a neo-liberal economy and does not implement non-liberal economic policy, it is true. She hired professionals to implement the World Bank of Dusan Vujovic, Ana Brnabic, Mladjan Dinkic, who is an adviser to Aleksandar Vukic, means those who have been proven neoliberal. You hired them to proceed through Mladjan Dinkic and at the time of the SNS government. So, in one word, it's a very simple thing, Serbia doesn't do domestic economy, it works exclusively as a subcontractor, and foreigners buy a Kajmak, on everything that is actually done here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16610	You're bringing the end of your colleague Obradovic. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16611	I have nothing against the City Library in Cačka, and in particular I have nothing against Vladislav Petkovic Dis, it is one of the largest Serbian poets. I just told another Dolan that he was hired by Velimir Ilic at the Graska Library in Cačka and nothing else. I didn't mention Dis, nor do I have anything against him. I may have read fewer books than my friend Dolanc, but at least I can put my words right even though I'm not a professor of Serbian language and literature. As for Mladjan Dinkic, let's reopen that topic. Mladjan Dinkic, as far as I know, is no adviser to Alexander Vukic, but a man works in Sberbanca, Russia's Bank. It's a bank that operates with majority government capital, right, Mr. Arsic? That's the information I have. Now, I don't understand how you, sir, or Comrade Dolanc, have something against Russian banks in Serbia? But more importantly, Ana Brnabic is no expert of the World Bank, Mr. Dusan Vujovic is an expert of the World Bank, but no neoliberal concept is being implemented in Serbia. I tried to explain. I don't know how far I've been able to do that, to clean up the liberal economies, there's hardly anywhere in the world today. All over the country and economic life, more or less, and especially must be mixed in Serbia, in which the economy has not functioned for 12 years. No one says it worked well until 2000. I know, Mr. Milic, for you roses began to bloom after 5 October 2000, I know that, but for most Serbian citizens they did not. You were all the same then, and Kostunica and the Democratic Party and Chad, all of you were on the same side.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16612	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16613	I'm just saying that the economic substance of this country was destroyed after 2000. By 2000, some economic substance existed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16614	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Since I see you've apologized nicely, in accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a two-minute break. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the amendments. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16616	Thank you. Of course I suggest not to accept the proposed amendment, for all those reasons that the Government has made quite clear to us in an explanation, which I firmly think the amendment promoter has not even read. Because if the amendment promoter had read the explanation at least once, he would certainly have given up his amendment, and as we could see in his explanation, we couldn't hear a word that applied to the amendment itself. There have been a lot of general places, some, I'll let myself say, corny phrases, by which the amendment promoter is also known to make arguments, so they're full of mouths about domestic economic interest, about domestic economic development, as if one of us had something against domestic economic development and domestic economic interest. It's about replacing thesis. I am sure that the amendmentr read the official data of the National Bank of Serbia at least once, so that he would certainly not talk today the way he spoke. If once, at least on the site, he had read something that was very easily available, about the state of the economy, he wouldn't have allowed himself to talk a little sooner. He could see that the cost of the economy was reduced by interest from 145 billion in 2014 to 99.3 billion in 2016. What does that mean exactly? This specifically means that the interest-based economy paid less to creditors for 45.8 billion dinars. That's a particular piece of information, that's a fact. Thanks to dinar stability, resulting from the successful implementation of NBS macroeconomic policy, negative exchange rates have been reduced from 246.3 billion dinars in 2014 to 88.8 billion dinars in 2016 and again, the difference is 157.6 billion dinars. That's what's concrete and that's what the previous speaker avoided talking about. The success balance of last year's economy is more favourable for 203.4 billion dinars. And that's concrete data, that's facts. You can't ignore that fact. Serbia's risk premium is at its lowest level in the last 10 years. I could keep reading this data, but I don't want to waste the time of the parliamentary group. For all these reasons, I suggest we reject all these charges as completely unfounded, which they are, but also not to adopt the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16617	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16618	Thank you. Considering that by the previous speaker, not Mr Markovic, but the speaker who spoke before him mentioned my name in the context of belonging to a party that has since 2000 contributed greatly to this and made many things a place. Unfortunately, they did not put themselves in place, thanks to the excessive adoption of laws that destroyed the economy and the economic system and many businesses drove them to the economic cemetery. So, regardless of whether someone arrived in Chačka to check or not to check the facts, I have to point out the facts as they are, because they can't be questioned, which is that since 2001-2002, when a disastrous Privatisation Act was passed, and that law literally destroyed everything that could have been destroyed by existing economic resources and left literally an economic cemetery on the economic scene of the Republic of Serbia, I want to point out that...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16619	My colleague Jovanovic, I'd like to ask you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16620	I was just talking about what the speaker who called me started on that same amendment, so you have to have at least that tolerance when we talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16621	Mr. Jovanovic, I've let you answer to him for a minute. He only mentioned you...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16622	Anyway, I want to give a statement and an explanation. The Socialist Party of Serbia was the only party to participate in the Assembly, which explicitly, clearly and loudly fought against the adoption of the Privatisation Law, which it points to and honours us as socialists. Of course, speaking of the amendment, I don't think the amendment as such should be accepted. I suggest that the government remain in the position it has already put forward in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16623	The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16624	I support this amendment, although it's not ours, because I think it's on the line of what I'm talking about here, and I think it is, and I wish it was on the line of what the ministers were talking about here in their presentations and their explanations, and that is why it should be that way for all MPs, I believe most of the citizens of this country. Whether the explanation is a little better or a little bit worse, whether to work with numbers to be precise, whether it is true or not, but the point in the next and that intensity is I support when I support what is in this amendment a colleague from Dvora, or Bosko Obradovic, said. We must protect what we can from the public interest and from the state sector. He's in a very bad voice. Indeed, whether it's 5, 10, 15 or 25 years of domination of that neoliberal paradigm, we can discuss it, but at some seminar, not here in the Assembly. The point is that whenever the role of the state can be strengthened, I will vote for the proposal, even if it comes from the ruling party. I'd like to see at least similar construction on the other side. It is not at all a problem whether it is proposed by the minister, whether it is proposed by colleagues from the SNS, at least those who are able to propose something, not those who can only parrotically repeat what they are told or ordered to do. The point is, I wanted to encourage Minister Vujovic, that's what I told him when he was here. As if it's timid, I don't know how much you remember, when he explained it, so he pleaded, simply apologized to someone and apologized to someone, not someone in the O.R., but as someone outside the O.R., he apologized for allowing the possibility that they could be placed through the National Bank and that the state could place those funds. As if there was one, as I would say, a global, some liberal, some neoliberal communal who was being justified somewhere, apologized for what he suggested. No, we also encourage him here to our amendments and these, which we just heard, that he, or the government, is more courageously entering that protection of state and national interest at risk, of course, to make mistakes, so that we or someone else is criticizing them, whether it's about this or another government. In that sense, independent now of this law that we are discussing, it should be a little more and more courageous to insist on. If SNS colleagues are really doing it, if it's on their hearts, I don't mind, but then let's really work on it, and not actually perform concepts and orders, I don't know who, World Bank, IMF and similar institutions. If that was what the predecessors did, yes, I'd criticized as much as I could. Could have been better or worse, anyway. Many have done so before, but it can't always be a five-year argument – and what they've been doing before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16625	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16626	No, I was looking for a replica, Mr. Chairman. You didn't give me a replica when he was saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16627	You have no right to a replica, no one has mentioned you at any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16628	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16629	Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16632	Thank you very much. Although the violation of the Rules of Procedure is too late, allow me as a non-partisan MP in the Parliament group of the Dvora to ask all present MPs that all MPs here have their own name and name and that it is very uncultural, least said, to refer to any MP named Dolanc. I guess in the Serbian Parliament, we know what Mr. Dolanc was doing towards the Serbs, especially when we pass the ceiling pay...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16633	My friend, if you could just point out a member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16634	... With 2,200 photographs of killed Serbs and when we remember what was done to poor Martinovic in Kosovo. Article 107, insult to the dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16635	Comrade Chevarlic, I cannot ban MPs from talking about politicians from the past. I can't see a member of 107's been broken. The word is made by MP Bosko Obradovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16636	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. I would like to take advantage of the remaining time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group and once again clarify the essence of this amendment from the corner of economic patriotism and what we consider domestic economic interest. A colleague from the ruling majority said one thought, which is revolutionary for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that today, across Europe and the world of states, they intervene in the economy. We've been hostages for 17 years of neoliberal economic thought, which claims that the state must not interfere in the economy, that the market is free and that the state should withdraw as a market game regulator. This is the first time I have heard from someone in power that time has changed throughout Europe and the world, that it is precisely those countries that are directly mixed in the competition, which directly regulate business activities and which, of course, smart countries, are side by side of domestic business activities contrary to the interests of foreign banks and foreign companies that are trying to make the maximum profit on your territory and that extra profit is being exported abroad, and even if you don't tax them additionally for exporting that extra profit. So this is a fundamental amendment that opens up a new economic era in Serbia, how do we put our own sources in the role of our own domestic economic development? Mr. Minister, Mr. Antichu, do you want me to be very specific and precise to you? A serious economic thought analyses what industries in domestic economy can be competitive with foreigners, and says that the domestic IT sector is strong that it can be competitive, that agriculture is exceptional and that it has an export orientation, that it has a huge profit at the annual level, that tourism, let's say, is growing and that our chance is great. Then what does the serious state do? Such own sources of funding, such as foreign debt charters of the value of the National Bank of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, puts into operation the creation of new jobs in these economic branches that are profitable and, of course, taking even some profit, we can also talk about it, returning to the Deposit Insurance Agency Fund and thus ensuring the safety of all savings in Serbia. So, the basic thing of each economy is to replace imports by domestic production, to support domestic production capacities, thus increasing the number of employees in the domestic economy, increasing taxes and contributions coming into the budget beyond that and actually ensuring domestic economic development. That is the essence of this amendment. The problem is, I'm telling you, you can't do this because you have a tutor above your head, because you mean with the head of the World Bank and the IMF, not with the logic of domestic economic interest because your experts, experts from the failed era of the neoliberal economy...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16637	My colleague Obradovic, a little bit about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16638	... Dusan Vujovic, Mladjan Dinkic... Mr. Chairman, first of all, I thank you, I think you have made one useful and quality debate possible, and in that sense, I want to complete my thought of a concrete amendment once more. So, with a concrete amendment, we have proposed that these foreign, debt securities, issued by the National Bank of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, be not only kept to secure deposits for the domestic banking sector, but to be put into office of investment in domestic business activities and large infrastructure works, I repeat, which are profitable and which will return those funds to the Deposit Insurance Agency, and in the meantime will do another useful activity while these funds, I repeat, stand somewhere, will employ new people, will start domestic economic activity, will boost exports and in any other way we will reverse our own money. I think that's the essence of the economy. We have our money, we turn our money around, while safeguarding the security of the Deposit Insurance Fund and saving in Serbian banks are safe, and on the other hand, we turned the money around, turned it around, increased economic activity, made some big infrastructure works, hired some new people, increased the budget over taxes and contributed to new employees. I don't know who's not clear that this is our domestic economic interest. I don't see any minister standing up to tell me I'm wrong and there's something controversial about this economic concept. Tell me what is controversial in this economic concept or say that you must not implement this economic concept for the simple reason that you are dependent on the IMF and the World Bank that do not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16639	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16640	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, economic patriotism is not a twist, so now we're making money, we're not making money. The economic interest in the Republic of Serbia at all is that it has stable finances, has high growth and has increased exports. Why? Because it's the only way we can cover not only the deficit we have in the budget, as well as all countries in the region, as well as developed countries, but also reduce public debt. It would all be as nice as the promoter says if we didn't have debts, and these debts have been back decades. It is not only a feature of the Serbian economy, but of the countries in the region. As far as the liberal concept of the economy is concerned, it is a characteristic of all developed economies. Of course, these developed economies today are also in a position to create a budget of plans, namely to plan their own financial resources. At times when unfavourable effects on the capital market, such as the global economic crisis, a German with a free market and a high degree of competition in the economy, came into the situation that it had to protect its car industry by State intervention. She thinks she made the biggest mistake of all. It was the only way to restore its economy to the path of high growth, as it has and as it had before. Why am I saying this now? Because such a proposal for an amendment, which says that we should invest in securities of value exclusively for the purpose of building infrastructure and developing domestic economy, is possible only in highly developed countries that have a growth rate of 7 to 10%, such as China, such as Japan, which has a major surplus, and not countries that have high public debt, with budgets that have major problems, when Serbia came into a situation that in 2012, it could not even pay for certain social benefits and pensions to its citizens of Serbia, you must then do economic reforms and must work to consolidate public finances. For this, first of all, you need an inflow of foreign direct investment, meaning a partnership between domestic and foreign companies, to create a product that can be competitive, to increase exports. It's the only concept of sustainability of the economy. The basic principle of economics is profit, creating a new value. Serbia has come into a situation by 2012 that has no new value. There is no opening of new factories, because building permits were issued for 300 days, there is no possibility of having fresh capital, because we were over-indebted, because no one wanted to work with you, because the high degree of corruption was above 60%, because it was simply such a political climate that neither the European Union nor the developed state wanted to talk to you about economic growth. Today we have a completely different situation. We have all economic indicators that show that we are on the path of sustainable growth and increasing that growth, that our economy, as well as the foreign reserves themselves and what we are talking about today, is on the way to investing for securities of value, and that it earns, that Serbia's budget earns when it places certain funds in securities of value. Just because we're in charge of foreign international institutions, and because we have to pay back those debts, and we've been returning them all these years, we come into a situation that we have to act in an extremely responsible manner. All of this would be nice and this amendment, if it were to be implemented in practice, especially in an economy like Serbia. We are trying to find our way to the sustainability of our economy and it is that under the same conditions both foreign and domestic investors can invest in the creation of new jobs, in creating new values. That's what Serbia is going with. That's what our countries in the region have recognized, who want to cooperate with us, especially when it comes to... (Zoran Krasic: Which of our countries in the region? I'm sorry, Mr. Krassic. You always follow my exposure when it comes to certain laps. Thank you. Therefore, this amendment is not acceptable and therefore should not be used by this kind of amendment in order to place in public the untruth that the Serbian Progressive Party and this government do not want to support the creation of new jobs and domestic investment at all. Of course we do, but this is not the way. That's why this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16641	You have no right to a replica. You have no right to a replica at all. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16642	It is very interesting to listen today, and very often, to the debate in the Serbian Parliament and to what I can say that I enjoy. I enjoy it, because sometimes I think about coming back from a theoretical and economic point of view, to the 17th century. Where the world was in the 17th century and key economic countries, today we are. This is an amendment debate. In the 17th century, Sej and Matus finished discussing the topic we are discussing today. What he represented, not Sej, but Matus, has since been defined as monetary crackling, or economic zilotism. I can talk about it today and name the full and more difficult terms that have been used through the economy. What's the matter with this amendment? They're right colleagues when they say the economy can be raised by investing in domestic infrastructure. It's nothing controversial. But investment in domestic infrastructure implies, essentially, that you have to know what money you're investing in. Serbia today has a growth in social gross product of 2.7, eight, 2.7, four per cent, which speaks of the government's performance. But with this amendment, we change things, we mix things up. We're talking about three components, a social gross product, which grows and grows, about reducing the unemployment rate, which decreases, and what you're doing wrong, and that's monetary policy. You can't have a growth in social gross product, a reduction in the unemployment rate, and an unstable monetary policy. Since you don't have a golden banking rule, or a gold rule in a coin, you must have foreign reserves. So, theory, practice, you must have in the central bank, the National Bank, foreign reserve, as well as the primary show that you clearly define. This is all connected because the National Bank, to explain to some MPs, is the National Bank’s deposit agency’s commander, so it discusses and uses the funds of the Deposit Agency in the same way as it uses and funds for foreign reserves. Let's move on. You have to keep an eye on how you place them. If you place them the wrong way, you can cause inflation, or certainly cause inflation. When you cause inflation, then every sense of monetary, free and market economy is lost. I enjoy here today listening to bad things about liberalism. It's basically the wrong translation. Liberalism is translated as freedom in the economy and it comes from freedom of human rights and freedom of economy. It's all about the amendment. If we accept this amendment and put the People's Bank in a position to place the Security Agency's deposit wrong, then we'll have inflation in the long term. But today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and other congregations and economic theorists, are, I can say, pretentiously in a historic unique situation. There has never been a situation in history where the interest that the income on the issued capital, i.e. money, is negative. Does anyone know, from the creation of human civilization, the economic theory that interest on the fixed assets was negative? It's not. Is that gonna happen again? Probably after a shorter period of time that's going on, it'll stop happening. We have a problem with the euro area today. Let me remind you, I know the MPs know that in 2008, the eurobor, or the European Central Bank, had an interest rate at 5.5, 5.4, 5.25, at 6.3 and one month. In 2015, Euribor, at the monthly level, entered a minus in January. In December 2015, the eurobor entered the six-month minus. You have negative interest rates, now you never do. The dollar comes out of it thanks to the interest rate of the Fed, which raises it. The Central European Bank is likely to raise the reference interest rate from zero, which it entered in 2016, to be followed by the Eurobor that will go to plus. We won't have a problem right now. When we write, I return to the amendment, the law we say – as long as conditions like this are exceptional, incredible, impossible, to place your funds, you do not make interest for those funds, but you pay to place your funds. But at the same time, it implies that the National Bank must comply with the rules of the 17th, 18th, 19th and 20th centuries, which were created as a result of the actions, inactions, various central banks, where, in the end, if you didn't follow the rules, you had inflation that ended up breaking up economic order and shutting down freedom. Without economic freedom and the right to freedom in the economy, you have no right. Large countries have the right to disobey economic rules, or have the right, but the consequences come decades back or forward, whatever. Small countries, such as Serbia, have no right to disobey economic rules, because when they fail to respect the consequences, they arrive very quickly, transparently, and then you have consequences for the functioning of society. As much as it doesn't seem to have to be politically supported, I'll always be a free economy. Without a free economy, there's no human freedom. Free economy is the essence of the functioning of society, if you don't have a free economy, and tell me, what is another model that exists in the economy and in society. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16643	You don't have a colleague. You can pick up the amendment. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16644	Dear Chairman, I would like to point out to you again that I believe that today you are in charge of a meeting of the National Assembly in one dignified and domestic way, and I would like to point out to you the violation of the Rules of Procedure 104, because for this reason I believe that I have the right to reply to the previous two cases, where it is said – if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is offended about a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, citing his name, last name, function, or misrepresenting his presentation. So when a specific fellow MP spoke about my understanding of the economy and my interpretation of the amendment, he simply misread my presentation. I didn't say for a moment that state funds should be misplaced. Well, who in their right mind would say and do that? It is precisely the secret of the economy that these state resources are properly placed and that they turn to the benefit of the development of the domestic economy. So, I think the President-in-Office, who I am taking the opportunity to congratulate today's birthday on behalf of the Dveri Parliamentary Group, that I had the right to replicate by the chairman for the simple reason that once for the usefulness of the public debate, it is necessary to enable a replica to correct the wrong interpretation given by a fellow MP. It is simply that we remain unsettled if our presentation is interpreted by a fellow MP from power and it is our turn to get a replica so that we can end up explaining what we wanted to say, rather than staying a shadow in our presentation, based on an interpretation of someone who says something completely the opposite, or who misread us. So, I think, for the sake of the overall correctness and quality of this public debate that has so far been high-quality, we can add a few replicas to the opposition MPs to fully interpret their presentation and explain what they wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16645	Who did you want to replicate to? (Bosko Obradović: Previous colleague. Here, for the sake of congratulations, can you do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16646	Thank the chairman, this is a significant contribution to this debate. So, a colleague who has exhibited various economic theories and actually wanted to say one thing that I absolutely agree with is that the most dangerous risk of investing from his own sources of funding is that it will be misplaced. That when we have certain state resources and resources and we give certain loans or in any other way we finance infrastructure works, we finance domestic economy, we finance loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, we carry a huge risk that these funds will not be returned because of the poor business ability and lack of management, for example, in state-owned enterprises that are party or for any other reason. So it's true, if we make a misplacement of state resources we'll have inflation and that'll be a problem for our country, we can't make that mistake. I was just saying the opposite, that we have certain, so to speak, ways to place. We have reliable placements in those industries that are successful and profitable. If IT makes a profit, we invest it in IT foreign exchange, debt, securities of value, credit lines and everything else at its disposal, because this IT will return it to its further development, its further profits, its further source. Don't give it to tycoon firms, party SPS companies who won't repay credit, because of course they'll lead inflation. It means that we are not giving "Agrobanks" whose leader was the SPS, so Agrobanka has failed, but to give where these funds will surely return and that we can then have the security of business in Serbia. I think in that sense, I'm completely in agreement with what you said, I just wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16647	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16648	I would like to thank the President. I don't know what tycoon firms the previous speaker is trying to impose some of his thesis on. Tycun firms have existed since 2000, all there until 2008 and destroyed everything that could have been destroyed. Did the party in which my previous speaker may have been involved and contributed to all of this, he knows best. The Socialist Party of Serbia in that direction has no reason to be ashamed of anything. On the contrary, there is reason to be very proud of all that she has done. I just said and said it and I'm stressing again and I'll always point out that this is exactly the period in which the SPS wasn't even close to the government's period of destroying the state, destroying the economy, destroying the economy. Anyone who doesn't know that can learn whether it's in a library or somewhere else, it's irrelevant, but in any case, there's a chance to get to those facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16649	Thank you. The minister wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16650	First of all, I think we have a complete replacement of thesis here. I'm not saying we have a misunderstanding, but I think for a little discussion and a little media attention, we've run away from the essence. We're not talking about economic patriotism here. We're not talking about economic thinking. We're not talking about tutors. We have here a simple legal project that the government of the Republic of Serbia has sent to parliament for adoption. So we have the Agency's funding, the 340m-euro Deposit Insurance Fund. These funds have so far been placed in a way that has been placed without being able to place them for charters of values issued by the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16651	We apologize to the Minister. Do you want to keep talking?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16652	I wouldn't stop if the rose wasn't red, but since it's red, I absolutely support it. So it is this government that first opens up the possibility that these funds are placed in domestic, or charters of values issued by the National Bank and the Republic of Serbia. We don't expect applause for that. It's something we've done in the best interests of this country. The amendment promoter seeks an amendment that cannot be arranged in this place in which and in what function these securities will be of value. So as such an amendment, he absolutely doesn't belong here, nor can we discuss him here in this way. Therefore, the amendment was not accepted. This does not mean that we here in Serbia have economic liberalisation, not to worry about domestic economy and industry. We are just doing what is the function of this law, to maintain liquidity, to reduce risks and to make a certain income to this 340 million fund that has a strict and clearly defined application and these funds are being used and must be constantly available to prevent all risks, which is why this fund is defacto and we have. On the other hand, this government is currently running one responsible policy. This policy is Serbia's growth and development policy. In this growth and development of Serbia, it is normal for domestic companies, all those who can and want to participate to have one big place. So we fight in every business for the participation of domestic companies. We're fighting to get licenses. We're fighting to get references. We're using a part of the funding that comes from some international funding. These funds from international financing also require certain conditions for domestic companies and we are trying to get them. In the end, it's not mine, although I've been renamed several times, I think someone might have an obsession with the SPS...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16653	Minister, you've exceeded your time more than once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16654	... And it seems to him that it's easier to attack here because you get a little more time than something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16655	Minister, you've exceeded time multiple times. Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16656	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have also thought about this amendment that it may be worth voting for, but listening to the promoter and his theory of economic patriotism, that was reason enough to change my mind. Especially in the business of economic patriotism and the sale of domestic companies, which is attributed to us. In that period, as far as I know, Vojislav Kostunica was in power, and when someone gets on TV with guns, takes television frequencies and assigns foreigners, then it's great economic patriotism, at least for those who came here on that list. When someone is speaking against foreign investment, he needs to know that foreign investments, in addition, bring us security. A country that has Chinese investments, Russian investments, a country that has German investments, can no longer be exposed to security risks in the sense in which it was 1990s. It's one of the reasons why it should always be opposed to someone who advocates that foreign investors are almost expelled. Number two. Since they sold the remains of the social property of SFRY, we have nothing left to do but ask people to invest in this country for several reasons. For new technologies, for example. Because only new technologies can create new jobs. The rest of the social property they sold to their tycoons, because the amendment promoter here advocated Miodrag Kostic's theory, in his own time, that our economy needs, here's Mr. Arsic knows it, to develop it by printing money. Which would quickly bring us rows, shortages, inflation, etc. Now it stands in its own way for the persecution of foreign investors. It's just money of foreign origin. The factory owned by Serbs in Germany is Germany. The factory owned by a Serb in France is French. The factory owned by Germany and the French in Serbia is Serbian, it is only money of foreign origin, and that money helps us to pay off the debts that have just been left to us by those who are now seeking some economic patriotism. And these debts are huge, only the interest is 1.30, 133 billion or 1.1 billion, that Mr. Arsic knows better, this year, on those debts left to us by those happy ones, who sold the property to the tycoons. And then they gave them money from the banks, so we had to give money to the Deposit Insurance Agency, to get the citizens out of trouble, we had to give money to the tycoons first, and then they gave them money, 1.2 billion from the banks they owned. Foreign investment brings us new technologies, but foreign markets. Every one of them that comes, and I've built an industrial zone in India, everyone who's come, a heating plant that makes for car parts, each one of them has brought a piece of the market, and that's the opportunity for our exports to grow. In 2012, import-export coverage was 54%. Right now, Mr. Arsic, you know it better than I do, over 80%. Just because this government's policy has been balanced against both domestic and foreign investors, and those who remind some of our MPs of Stanet Dolanc, and I think that should fill it a little bit in particular in knowledge, this discussion should draw attention to them that these economic patriotisms are worth public procurement, but we are already giving some advantage to domestic companies, worth performing, but not at all to advocate the printing of money, the exorcism of foreign investors, because it would lead us into a crisis, and even possible security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16657	Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16658	Thank you. We've gone very far from the subject and here in the debate, there's one piece of information that I'd just like to give the citizens a little more precise light on. It's about the famous rate of GDP growth. So it's a key economic indicator on which the government is based its success. A colleague in the previous debate said that 2.7% of the annual GDP growth rate is. Now I'm going to try to get the citizens to put it in a time dimension. In 2008, the U.S. The GDP was $49.26 billion, not full 50. At this fantastic growth rate of 2.7% a year, given how much GDP was last year, we will reach this amount in 2008 in 2026. Then, in 2026, our GDP will return to the level of 2008, at a fantastic growth rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16659	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16660	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't want to deal with grandmothers and frogs. Our economy is oriented and our policy of our central bank is oriented towards the euro. So now you mention how much GDP it was in 2008, when the euro was much stronger than the dollar, than it is today, because it was then, it seems to me 1.45-1.50, and now it's 1.1 ratio of the euro and the dollar. It means someone has no idea about the economic profession. Babies and frogs don't add up. If our economy is focused on the euro, we express our statistical data in the euro, then the euro can also benefit in 2008 and 20016 or 2017. The amendment submitted that the funds that the Deposit Insurance Agency has can only be used through the programme financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and even I hear from the motionor, or the amendmentr, that this should also be done with foreign reserves, etc. They defy economic logic. You know, state interventionism exists directly or indirectly in every economy. You also have it in a policy run by the Federal Reserves of the so-called The Fed U.S., you have a policy run by the European Central Bank, you have a policy run by, say, the Swiss Central Bank, even though it's private institutions, but they're making their moves according to some policy. Now, let's get this straight - what are foreign exchange reserves for? Foreign exchange reserves are used to cover the money mass of dinars on the market. Another reason to cover the deficits in the foreign trade exchange, if there is one in the smaller case. Thank God, he's been gone since 2016. The third reason is the existence of foreign reserves, the prevention of excessive dinar oscillation towards world currencies. So, for the mass of dinars you have on the market, you're responding to some reserves. They can be gold reserves, foreign exchange reserves, charters of the value of some other countries that have very good credits, etc. But these are your reserves that you guarantee for the dinars on the market. What happens if you start from foreign reserve to finance the budget? It happens, say, in the mid-80s, where you had an inflation of about 100%, so it was a famous price freeze, etc. A far better quality and better economy than it is today, but it happened. We had this situation in 1992, 1993 – what did we then have as a consequence? There was a consequence of receiving a salary worth 25 or 30 marks, reaching a bank, two or three marks. That's why everything we talked about defies economic logic. Now, not to mix things up, we have two institutions that print a lot of their national currency, but they don't do it for no reason. One is, for example, the European Central Bank, three billion euros a day printed out, but where does the money go? In order to buy out the debts of the euro area member states and return the money indirectly to banks that would place it in the economy or the population, therefore, to consumption. Can Serbia do that? He can't. We don't have economic power for that. Or, say, the Federal Reserves of the United States are printing the same dollar. Why? The dollar is the world's currency of payments, when it starts to print the dollar all the goods imported into America become uncompetitive, all the goods exported from America become competitive. Is the money the world's currency of payments? Well, it's not. Then don't compare yourself to such financial systems, we can't. No one told me from colleagues in the former regime is it true, here I ask the minister, in 2015, in January of the month, the Deposit Insurance Agency paid 118m euros in the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Where did that money come from? In this it is a problem, the country from the inherited state is financing commitments from the budget to the London and Paris Club, which are the banks that went into bankruptcy in 2002, 2003, etc., and the bankruptcy of these banks and the cash mass collected from bankruptcy is controlled by the Deposit Insurance Agency. Was it normal for the Agency to accumulate funds and the state to pay commitments to the London and Paris Club? That is why they paid 118m euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget in 2015. Also, it was not logical, those who attack, and from the former regime, that in 2011, we determine such a business of the Deposit Insurance Agency, and by law here, a 2011 Loan Act, where we set out exactly in which banks these assets can be deposited with themselves in 2011. Now I don't see what's so bad that one part of the funds the Deposit Insurance Agency has is used to buy government securities from value. What are the benefits of that? First of all, those funds aren't that small. On the other hand, the Deposit Insurance Agency can influence the purchase of state records of value on yields, i.e. to reduce interest on the market on which the Republic of Serbia is in debt. You have one more, so to speak, positive consequence, if there are positive consequences. There is one more thing that is at stake, because I'm trying to explain that economics is not something that you can only interpret or extract factors, because when you change one thing in the economy you're never sure where the problem is going to be because of the moves you've made. There are too many unknown factors, too many unknown factors. Therefore, you must be very careful in all of this and make sure that every move you make is safe, as far as possible, that the harmful consequences for the economic and economic system will not be. That's why we have one of these laws today. Why would the Agency deposit funds in banks for which we are bound from 2011 to the law with which this government has nothing to do with and they pay us a negative contribution? So this is a law of temporary and armed character. But what would happen if we spent all the resources available to the Deposit Insurance Agency on, here I accept, program budget financing, infrastructure building are programme objectives? At that moment, every bank, no matter who the founder is, is going down on the interbank market. But to make things worse, as Serbia is a state guaranteeing savings stakes of up to 50,000 euros, all the loans that these banks have, which are not secured by a mortgage or some other solid security, affect the liquidity of the state, the general liquidity of the state and its credit rating and its credit rating. I hope I've explained to my colleagues why you need to be careful and you don't need to be in the economy, there's room for politics, but politics can't be the one who's always gonna be dominant over the profession. Here's one reckless political move. Some laws, I agree, were to be compensated for people who were unjustly deprived of agricultural land in 1945, 1946, 1947, 1948 and 1949, but were done very quickly, without serious preparation. And what did you do? Tear off production chains in Serbia. So when you do something you have to do well, well plan, well protect the state, protect the economy, the economy, the standard of living citizens, then make decisions. This way, when I read and hear what all my fellow MPs have said, I can only say that Serbia under your authority would not last 15 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16661	Thank you. The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16662	Thank you. I thank the chairman for allowing 11 minutes for a very, very, very broad debate on this amendment. So, very, as counterpart Krasic says, broad debates. I hope that this is the beginning of the trend that the chairman will allow discussion in the Assembly, when he has been allowing the ruling majority's MP to speak this broadly about the economic subject for 11 minutes. And I could do this from Kulina Ban to explain the entire economic situation, but it seems that all the speeches of the ruling majority end up on one, and that's -- they're guilty before, and that we've done nothing for five years in power, and we're getting into worse problems, and party employment and party destruction of the state has no end, not a word. What was five years ago, ten, 15, that's important. One moment it is necessary to take responsibility and say – for what is happening now, this authority is responsible for both good and bad, so that in this way we conduct a discussion, and not every time someone from the opposition says anything about what is happening today, a salva of insult, offensive names and a return to some of the times before. Many mistakes have been made before 2012, many mistakes are made today, but we finally expect that responsibility will be taken by those who lead the country and are responsible for what is happening today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16663	The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16664	Madam Chairman, did I get the word as a replica? Thank you. So again, I intend to just explain certain expressed thoughts, so that there will be no misreading. They never said they were against foreign investors. This is one ominous interpretation of what we are talking about, that the priority of this country should not be foreign investors and the investment of our funds in the arrival of foreign investors, but the same means, by this principle I was talking about, should be invested in a domestic economy that is competitive and which can replace imports by domestic production. It's very different if someone comes to the conclusion that we're against foreign investors. No, we are in favour of supporting domestic economy in those sectors that are competitive as a substitute for imports by domestic production. We've solved one thing. The other thing they also often honor us is the idea that we would, for some kind of inflation, for some kind of printing of money without measure or limit, for some kind of use of state money that would go to harm the state. The Dwarves were never up for something like that. So, the primary show, the additional printing of state money only makes sense if you invest it in a concrete profitable business activity that will return those funds. There's no point in investing in additional printing of state money in wages and pensions because, of course, you're going to cause huge inflation and create chaos in your own country. But it also makes sense that many countries in the world have developed precisely by investing in large infrastructure works, new employment and additional domestic economic activities. Finally, what is very important, the tycoons did not emerge on October 5, 2000. The tycoons were former communist and socialist directors who had ruined their businesses, made private empires and served the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, as well as all regimes so far. So they're tycoons, like robbers in all modes so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16665	Thank you. Arsic, by amendment? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16666	We have a whole afternoon session of a pretty wide subject. I was much more involved in this amendment by which funds from the Deposit Insurance Agency should be part of the programme financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, this story about printing money, only three cases you have in the world – a Swiss central bank that defends the Swiss franc by printing money not to be too expensive, the European Central Bank to buy out government debt and placements into banks that would place these loans in the economy or the population at lower interest rates and thus raise consumption and third example are the United States because the US dollar is the world's currency of payments and by printing dollars is costing its export policy, and it collects its import policy and encourages domestic consumption. Now I ask – does Serbia have the economic power to do such a thing? Who can tell me there's at least one glimpse of such economic power? Well, there isn't. Our only way out of the fiscal consolidation measure, I would like those who laugh at the results and GDP growth of 2.7% to find a country in the world that, when implementing the fiscal consolidation measures, has GDP growth. Go find it, go find it. I'd like to hear that. So the measurements are accurate and precise. So our only way, and that's already happening, is that by reducing the government's debt, the money that the state reduces its debts is coming back to banks that would lend to the economy and the population at lower interest rates. Is that what's going on? Well, it happens. In July 2012, dinar loans were 35, 37, 38, 40%. How much are they today? For those who don't have a good score between 10% and 12%, and those who have a good rating below 7 or 8%. So we made one part of the bank not to have their client as a state, but to the economy and the population. This is how we raise domestic production and consumption. If we're going to print money to raise domestic consumption or production, we're going to be in 1992 and 1993, so deal with it. The state cannot finance itself by printing money, Serbia cannot. Maybe some other countries can, Serbia can't. What do you have as a consequence? Someone says inflation. All right. Someone says, "Dinar course crash." And that's okay. But what about those who do business here? Should we divide them into domestic and foreign investors? I don't think so. Whether he's domestic or foreign, he's got to get out of Serbia how many feet he's wearing and leave us unemployed workers here. So we have to run one responsible policy, both monetary and public debt issues, and on subsidies that are given to both the economy and agriculture and the state-funded branches, because that's the only way we can keep the business environment and the business environment that we have today and it hasn't fallen from the sky. I ask my colleague Krasic not to throw it away. You're distracting me, colleague Krasic. It takes a concentration to explain something to some people, that's why. Therefore, it is necessary to set such measures as will guarantee anyone who comes to Serbia to invest in having an economic and legal security state, meaning that when he invests 50m or 100m euros in the Serbian economy, he knows that in a year, the 50m euros or 100m euros will really continue to be 50m euros or 100m euros. These stories of money being brought out of Serbia, according to the Foreign Exchange Act, can only be made out of Serbia as much money as you have entered. You can do more, like dividends, but then you pay very high taxes. Unlike the former regime, which fully liberalised the foreign exchange market in 2010, it was also able to advance goods from imports and pay off advances and never return and export goods and never return to the country. That's how serious tycoons in Serbia came into existence. It was real. Using such legislation, many of them accumulated 70 or 80 economic resources in Serbia, which in the state, which in public, which was privately owned, because they earned enormous wealth in the course of the dinar and the monopoly position that they gained because it was late with the adoption of anti-monopol laws. Now someone wonders that we have an economy in this state, the economy we found in 2012. Now to remind you, on August 8, 2012, the euro was 119,80, and today it is 123 dinars, after five years. In August 2008, it was 78 dinars, and it jumped, figure it out, for 50%, and it was spent 4.5 billion foreign exchange reserves, at least it's a known piece of information, who knows how unknown it is, in order to preserve the course of the dinar, which we didn't save. Then there was a decline in the employment rate, i.e. an increase in the unemployment rate, and then there was an increase in public debt, as much as anyone wanted to admit it or not, because the economy had ceased to exist. Those who had such inflation and such euros in relation to the dinars fled Serbia, shut down factories. Now they're worried about the workers. Don't talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16667	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16668	I would like to thank the President for allowing such a broad discussion. We've heard again that the ruling majority is now coming out for a fiscal consolidation that is going on, I guess. As far as we know, from Milka Planinc, these older and citizens, MPs will remember, we have this ongoing fiscal consolidation, similar to that revolution that runs at the time of Tito, which never ends, and it always does, and nothing really happens. So there's no consolidation in this fiscal consolidation, there's only tax hikes, there's just a withdrawal of pensions, there's a reduction of wages, there's an increase in excise duties, there's no reform, because the state has reformed nowhere, and it's reforming itself because then it's practically partocrat for itself to cut the branch that it's sitting on and it doesn't cost us as much as it costs us. None of this consolidation is there and the colleague himself mentioned that they inherited the economy in 2012 in a very bad state, which is true, and then he Nicely admitted to the citizens that today is the same. So you're asking the question for the last five years of what they've been doing, since all the levers are in their hands. When order was tried, it prevented the result of their policy from what we have today. Also, the foreign investor issue no one smarts up against foreign investors. But what we have against is when foreign investors are privileged at the expense of domestics, so they get subsidies, so they get land for free, so they build halls, so they're practically creating a place to hire our people as cheap labor, and we have something against it. If measures are taken which are equal for all and those measures are certainly not these subsidies per job, these measures must be a reduction of taxes and contributions. Then it's a good climate for everyone. It is then a good economic policy that takes care of the entire domestic economy. And when we talk about withdrawing money from the country, I'm going to teach a bit of an esteemed MP that money is not being drawn through dividends, but through invoices of services that don't exist, inflating the prices of goods sold abroad, and that's a huge amount of money coming out of the country, we have double invoices where international institutions care about what invoices are reported in Serbia, customs and the National Bank, if they're services, which are on the other side of the world, so we have their account, meaning, not from Serbia, but international institutions that deal with this, that somewhere five billion dollars every year leaves Serbia over a period of 12 years, which is about 50 or 60 billion dollars. It's so much money and then it comes back, washes over some of the short destinations and returns to Serbia. Well, if you really intend to bring order into the country, then you should first, that is, the Law of Origin of Assets to bring, which is announced, of course, those before you who announced it, so none of it has brought any authority, since it does not suit it. So they'd pass some laws that are strictly controlled by the business of the Shore site, to prevent that money and capital from coming out of the country. These are all the things you should be doing. Instead, the easiest thing to do is to cut pensions, cut salaries, raise taxes, raise electricity prices, impose everything on citizens and on the economy, and on the other hand, the partocrats, to save themselves with their incompetent staffs that cost us huge money. To remind me, since this is a debate on these laws that we are making, the state of Serbia paid 39 billion dinars on behalf of the activation of guarantees for loans taken by public enterprises with its incompetent party personnel last year, which is about 310m euros. This year, the budget envisioned another 40 billion dinars, which is another 310m euros. It's twice as much as it's been kidnapped by pensioners every year. This is the cost of partocracies, this is the cost of party employment, and before you go to the citizens and you raise taxes, you take out salaries and pensions, the state must first introduce order. That would be a responsible policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16669	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16670	The question of the dignity of the National Assembly, Madam President, and let me just say, I have a lot of understanding about what may not be heard, maybe all of it, because when something is said this chaoticly, both in length and wide, and from the hills, so from the bottom, it's very easy to miss. I heard, so I wanted to distract you. A question of dignity, therefore, for several reasons. First of all, he's talking about some cheap workforce, completely declassified, and we've talked about it before. He can't speak on the subject of someone who I'm a worker is none, who doesn't have power, greater than 1.4% in the election. So that's completely pointless. He can talk about cheap stuff, but with these other two things, he insults the National Assembly. Next thing you know, he's talking on the subject of work, anyway. There is no one who has advocated the closure of “The Iron Man, ” and five thousand people are sent to the street, so someone who thus shows...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16671	Ambassador, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16672	Yes, it is, I want to tell you that someone can't speak like that in the National Assembly. I think you should pay attention to that. There are other things that were controversial, and they have to do with dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16673	Every MP is equal and can speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16674	You know, when someone says they're gonna teach a colleague, I don't think it was in place either. Why would I think that? Because he mentioned subsidies. So if we're supposed to be teaching subsidies, and that's not the level of discussion, why doesn't someone teach us about their 2013 statements?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16675	Ambassador, this is not a breach Rules of Procedure 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16676	... When he was talking about the subsidies being supported. Is the 107th question of dignity? I think it's a matter of dignity, too, when someone's talking about taxes, so he gets confused. Why? Because he's got a dumpling in his throat whenever he says that word. Much more important than that, and it has to do with dignity directly, Madam President, it's a matter of partocrat. It's a big and sound word, and when someone tells her who's setting up a job for her own wife and someone who's giving themselves heat from godmothers to movement, from movement to association, and then back into his own pocket, to take the money he's taking, directly in partocrats, not to say to the phantom association, it's also a question of relations to dignity. I think we should sanction these things in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16677	Thank you, MP. It's a little impossible to sanction, all MPs are equal to me and have the right to speak, and today something broader than the matter of the amendment. The word is Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16678	By amendment. According to the amendment, of course it's not a matter of fiscal consolidation, but since today is a broad topic, then it certainly needs to continue. I personally feel like someone who, in 2014 and 2015 in this House, in the Committee on Budgets, has hurt compared to some of the reforms that were previously made. Why? Because the reforms that started in 2015, which were due to end in December 2017, today we are still in them, have also shown mathematically and have shown better economic results as a result of the government's decisions and supported by the Republika Srpska Assembly. We went into fiscal consolidation for two key reasons, because our public debt was too high and because our deficit was at 6.5%, to remind those who compared us to Milka Planinc and our GDP in 2014 was minus 1%. Furthermore, in 2017, today, we are at GDP growth, which in 2016 was 2.74%. Our foreign reserves are up, and our foreign debt is 23.9 billion. So fiscal consolidation produced results. Whether someone likes it, whether someone thinks they can do different, excellent, great, but what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, the economic laws that are being passed, which the Assembly accepts by the Government, can be liked or not. But, mathematically, you have clear indicators that say that Serbia's macroeconomic parameters are growing. If you have 2014 minus 1% of GDP, 0.8%, 2.8%, over 3%, World Bank, IMF, if you have a 6.5% deficit, in December 2017, after the end of fiscal consolidation to be 2.9%, in order to meet the requirements of the master, we are now at 1%, slightly higher than that. What is wrong with the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? We can always find new different topics, but in macroeconomic parameters we are where we are and I would not, of course, remind you that in addition to two, we have inflation that is like in the euro area. When was that in Serbia? When was inflation at European level? When GDP growth is right, and Mr. Arsic is right when he says, it has never happened that after the programme ended, and we have not finished it yet, we end it in 2017, one country records GDP growth and a decrease in unemployment levels. All right, we don't see, it doesn't matter, some see, some don't see, and the important thing is that when we make difficult decisions, Serbian citizens trust us, and that shows the results of the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16679	Sasa Radulovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16680	Thank you. The fact is that the deficit is reduced, but the whole discussion that I've been having here is about how the deficit is reduced, that's how the deficit was supposed to be reduced, so the state introduces order, so it eliminates all the spending and the public spending that exists in the country, so it cancels the partiality, the incompetent party staff and all that stuff, and then if it's not enough, it reaches for other measures, and the way the state of Serbia has reduced the deficit, and I've talked about this and the budget debate, it's taken pensions, it's reduced public sector wages, it's then it's taken all the taxes, the VAT from 18% to 20%, from 8% to 10%, all the excise taxes have been imposed, it's increased the tax on property, all possible taxes and practically entered into the citizens' pockets and the economy, and thus reduced the deficit. We think it's wrong, because at the same time, I'll remind you that last year, 39 billion dinars, this year 40 billion dinars, on behalf of the activation of guarantees for loans taken by public enterprises with incompetent party personnel who are unable to pay, so it's paid by Serbian citizens twice as much as they've been kidnapped by pensioners every year. On the other hand, to correct one thing, we never talked about closing "The Iron" but about introducing order into "The Irons" and I tried to do it in 2013, as a minister of the economy, but it stopped me then of the PPV. So, introducing order means, knowing the obligations, knowing the revenues, making a business plan, and not what was done, two years nothing, some rescuers, managements, 270m euros in losses, and finally waking up to why it was sold to the Chinese, and not as an asset, worse than it was done with "Sartid" in time, when it was sold to the Americans. So it's a question of irresponsibility. Otherwise, MPs of the ruling coalition have a manner, that whenever they hear arguments they do not like, they do not respond to arguments, but personally attack the speaker, so they try to muddle him, to tell lies about what they do, what they think, and what they are. This is an expression of weakness, so I'd pray it doesn't happen anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16681	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in something to agree with a colleague who spoke before me, which is that the state should introduce order and abolish incompetent leaders, but also citizens are abolishing incompetent and dishonest politicians, especially if they want to be bankruptcy managers of the SNS, there was one, so he was waiting for two election cycles to return here to the bench. Now I see that someone else's mistakes hasn't learned, so they repeat the same mistakes, so they didn't deserve to run the country. As for the withdrawal of money, double invoices, imports of goods at unfairly high prices, it is not this 2010-2011, it is not, the laws have been amended, so you can no longer according to the Foreign Trade Act to organise goods and services without either importing them or returning the money. That's what these guys used to do across the street from me, so the sister company paid, made a invoice, that the company, the domestic company here in Serbia, that invoice for importing goods and services, and never imported goods or services. It accumulates and it's a real money-laundering machine. I wish a fellow professor was there, a real money-laundering machine, that you from the economy accumulate a year's capital by not paying anyone anything. Then yourself, as a sister's firm, you give it to the company. Buy Euros in today's course, take those Euros out of Serbia, disrupt the course for tomorrow, return the Euros tomorrow, one part not all. One piece back and pay the suppliers something you bought a year ago, at a lower price in euros than it was yesterday. That could have happened by 2012. As for the invoices bloated from countries that are tax havens, I think the amendments and additions to the Foreign Trade Act regulated that the invoice for imports of goods and services does not go towards the headquarters of the company, which imports into Serbia goods and services, but towards the country and the country's price list from which both goods and services originate. Let's deny it. That's what the law says, that's how they enforce the law, the foreign currency inspectorate, but you know what, the easiest thing is that you don't see things, the easiest way to get your head in the sand, and you don't see that the one who runs the government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, the elected president of the Republic of Serbia gets 55% in the election, and then you say that he's running a bad policy, so maybe he's leading a bad policy for some who have lost their privileges and the ability to rob the entire Serbian economy, the whole Serbian society, but for the vast majority of citizens he's leading a good policy. If you want to beat Alexander Vukic, then start running politics better than he's leading, I doubt you're capable of doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16683	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16684	Thank you. If he controlled all the state resources, controlled RTS and all the media, he would certainly win the election and more than 50%, but since it's irrelevant to this discussion, the only way I'm controlling it is to repeat it whenever I'm talking about something justified, it's okay that the other side disagrees, to point out things that are not said, to discuss it, but to try to offend another speaker, to speak about it personally, who is in the elections, it's really not for this House, however, obviously it will continue, because the arguments on real issues are not. When they look at all these foreign investors, this story about the Foreign Exchange Act, the question for the MP is – does he know how many foreign currency inspectors there are? That would be to see how much work that inspectorate is doing right now and how much jurisdiction he has and what he can do in the first place. What this was done before, before 2012, in all this period when robbery privatisation happened and continued afterwards, does not justify those who do so today and who do not see it happening. This policy of mindless subsidisation, foreign investors, where they get huge subsidies, get benefits for the country, build their factories, hire our people as cheap labour, and then profit through these transfer prices is derived from Serbia, which is their right, because every employer, or every company, wants to maximise its profits, and to maximise it in the country it comes from. It's their legitimate right and our country is doing nothing to stop it, it hasn't done it before, it doesn't do it today. The whole point of this is – no one has anything against foreign investors, but we should support the domestic economy, and this is done through tax cuts and contributions, it is done through reduction of bureaucracy, when creating conditions that a domestic economy can make good business and make good money. This is a key problem with the current government's economic policy, and that five years in power, no fundamental reform has been implemented in any area of society.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16685	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16686	Thank you. There's always talk here about the former regime and respects us, too, who didn't participate. I'm sorry there's no colleague from the DS that they, possibly, comment on something. I don't know if they have any urgent obligations to answer. I have to remind the distinguished colleagues, they're five years of current power. I've been very allergic, it's what every government likes, to constantly honor those predecessors for what the predecessors have done badly. Well, they didn't do anything right, that's why they're ex-girlfriends. Let's see what we're doing here, or you're doing right now. As far as the figures are concerned, I'm trying to get things back to the level of argument, which is not always easy with some MPs, so it is. There are various indicators, some of which are favourable, some of which are ambivalent. Now that the figures and progress have been mentioned so much, why is no mention of today's second figure, which is being cover-up, which is that of these terrible, catastrophic 2012 and the arrival of this current government, the public debt has been raised from 15 to almost 25 or 24 over billions of euros. Let's say, when we boast positive or boast positive balances, then say it. We heard from fellow Tomic, she instructed some incentive balance, she forgot to mention, she said – the debt grew. Ten years is growing. For five years, you have been in power and he has grown up for the last two months, says Minister Vujovic. I'm very glad that it turned out to be true, that now it's starting to drop, but in 15 it's gone to over 24, almost 25 billion euros. That's and the share of public debt in GDP rose from 65% to 68%. Those are the facts we should also say. As for the concrete proposals, we tried to fix this, but I repeat, our group will vote for what is positive, which is a step in the right direction. We just wanted to encourage things to go further, that is, to make it even more courageous for that concern about the possibility or that possibility of investing in domestic securities of value. As far as these laws are concerned, about borrowing additional and borrowing, we will not support it. I think it should be supported, regardless of what Minister Vujovic is very convincing and smart, he was, by the way, an authorised loan dealer, a World Bank official, and he can explain very nicely why it is good to raise some credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16687	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16688	I'm advertising a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The speaker, Mr. Arsic, when warning or pointing to the negative consequences of the wrong economic policy, referred to MPs sitting across from him. We mentioned once and did not burn to warn again, when the gentlemen of the Serbian Progressive Party list the culprits, then they have their names, last names and parliamentary groups. We Serbian radicals, for the sake of truth, don't make a difference between you, are the same you, both by program and by policy. But, were you more clear to the public, you clearly say, when you point to someone who is guilty of the current economic situation or political situation, say if not the name and last name, then the parliamentary group or political party to which it belongs, and not so, saying, these over. We Serbian radicals have nothing to do with each other, we keep our dignity, and the rest of you keep whatever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16689	Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16690	I'd like to talk about these debts, subsidies and other topics that are exactly about the amendment, and I certainly don't want to answer to this. Although the truth is that the lack of politics is an entirely identical epithet, so there's no one to be angry about it, there's no policy there, so there's no policy. As for that level of debt, we've quoted that data here several times. On Day 31. 12. In 2012, 17.7 billion, and that's in the official data that can be verified right now, while we're talking about it, and it can be found on the site. If he finds it on the site, he can look at it with his own eyes, he doesn't have to trust me. That chronic math problem -- it is 10 billion, it's not 10 billion, it's easily checked and it's easy to determine that's not it. One side of the problem is the amount. One side of the problem is that level that has been reached in debt. The other side, and much more dangerous, when viewed on a longer term, any perspective, are conditions. So there are conditions under which something can be better rescheduled and returned and conditions under which it is damn difficult. Now, those hellish heavy, if not worse than that, we got in the 2012 mentioned. Is there anyone in this country that he doesn't understand until today? I do not appreciate it except those who do not understand it, who refuse to accept it, that it may be made clear to them. Why? To have something to say, to have something to criticise here, to mention both the SNS and the Serbian Government, etc., etc. If you look at any of the sessions that discusses this topic, you hear both exact data and those interest levels, deadlines, etc. There can't be a man who doesn't understand unless he does. I see it. It won't. He doesn't have to. It's not a dispute. Just make sure he's ready to hear every time he hears that he's responsible for it. May he be ready every time to hear that his personal sins are there, and because he was where he was and because he supported whom he supported, and also because today he supports who he supports. When someone today, for example, stands outside, and proudly stands in front of a single dossian candidate, he accepted the dossage policy. There's the system, who you're with, who you're with. And those who are angry because they went out to the polls with the parties of Dossos, so that today many things are not right, may they be angry at themselves. No one beat them in the ears to accept such a policy, to proudly stand before 12 years of total destruction and devastation of this country, behind hundreds of thousands of lost jobs, behind that debt that was worse than what was after a decade of wars and collapse and those conditions over which others must tear their hair apart. No one beat them to do it. They took it themselves. If they did it themselves, they should be proud. If they are uncomfortable and are not proud, then at least keep quiet, let them not transfer them to those who are better and more successful. It's better and more successful than I say, and we don't say. Here's that IMF that's being talked about, here's that World Bank. Take a look at the official evaluations of the programmes being conducted in Serbia. You will literally see one of the best programs in the history of international institutions. That means that everything that's been drawn to be a result, and it's been drawn strictly, it's been drawn critical of ourselves, it's always been better than it's supposed to be. So there's a way when someone who wants to take care of it, who's really important and who can. As far as the debt goes, there's more good news, we've had it this morning. That debt has begun to decrease. So those who knew only about the increase can rejoice if they really care about something good for the country. It's shrinking. One more time, why? Because there is Alexander Vukic, there is a Serbian government, there is a parliamentary majority who wants to deal with things that are good for the country. Whoever has a problem with chicken memory, again his personal problem, but whenever he wants to discuss the subject, he can hear what kind of reminder he's doing. In 2013, exclusively for those who forgot to support subsidies, "it is certain that in 2014 and 2014 we will not go to the suspension of subsidies for investors who are opening new jobs," one person of the ministerial category reveals for a daily newspaper at the time. Also, he explains, "This measure exists in other countries, and it is clear that there must be something that will make investors define themselves right for Serbia." That's what someone said in 2013. Two months later, when he was sent to the door because he deserved what he did, or didn't do, which he himself advertised and tried for his own personal charm and private interest to use the state function, change the board, forgets. He's suddenly suffering from amnesia. Otherwise, the show "Fighting Chicken Memory or Chicken Memory" thinks it's given on Radio Belgrade on Saturday. I recommend, I believe some would be very welcome. The same person in his official material, seduced on the official website of his phantom association that represents a movement, and in fact it is a private association and cannot possibly register as a party, holds the following material. He says -- he went with his closest associate to negotiate to join a small party of a former Dossian leader, a great political expert and a terrible genius. They didn't agree, probably about the arrangement, but they discussed the contribution that these leaders of phantom associations can make. They say – we offered him a political programme and in it various things by many categories and topics, among other things, some protection was a topic. He says -- why do we propose this, and why do we need what we propose? Literally, to lay off the extra workers, to shut down Jellyzar in Smederev. Then, again, it's been a while, sometimes a day, sometimes two, sometimes a year, and a man says, "Oh, I never claimed it, I'm trying to close the ironworks, there's no way." There are other cases like this, for example. from a year or two ago alone, how public enterprises are cancer wounds and that they need to be shut down. Which can't be arranged, the lock and everyone on the street, and then nicely, quotes, writes in detail, that company, so this, so what, if anyone's interested, can all be found on official materials that still today, here, now, as we talk about it, stand on the official phantom association that represents itself as a movement and cannot be registered as a party because there are not enough signatures of support. Both “Serbigas” and EPS and Želizar and Railways and “Petrochemia” and JAT, i.e. ER Serbia. And when someone knows all of this, and keeps denying it, I can only conclude one thing – they try not only to repeat the historic success of 1.4% in the elections, but also to overcome it first chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16691	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16692	Thank you. The continuation of the same rhetoric by the ruling majority, which has no arguments, then goes to insult, invent, tell the truth. We've learned that before. I won't answer the same. There is so much material about all MPs of the ruling majority, but it would be an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, and it's forbidden here. However, it does not prevent this MP who reports every time and tries to offend me in the same way. Here, he's dedicated to me now for seven minutes. Let's get back to that point and some of the things he said, and what are the truth. Citizens should know that at the moment the ruling majority took over, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia was about 15.5 billion euros. It was the moment they took over and went after that to build that debt that grew by more than nine billion in the five years they were in power. Before them, from 2008 to 2012, the government took over a public debt of 7.5 billion and brought it to 15.5. That's, then, from eight to nine. The difference is that now frightened under this enormous burden of public debt have reached into the pockets of citizens and businesses, increased all taxes, kidnapped pensions, reduced salaries, to somehow lower the public debt, or to somehow reduce the deficit, of course, by not making any reforms within its public sector, or reforming the state, any single reform. A question for all citizens – do they know one area of society where order is introduced, one single area? So when you have facts like this, then of course you're running away from them and you're trying to hide your incompetence and what you've actually done in the past five years. This is what we should talk about. As for "Gelezzare" Smederevo, I repeat once again, no one has ever talked about closing but about introducing order, because if we had introduced order in 2013, we would not have 270m euros thrown at rescuers from the Czech Republic, and from where, which was hired by the Prime Minister himself, who proved to be a major problem and left 270m euros in debt. As far as subsidies to foreign investors are concerned. We said, as is responsible, that we would not terminate the contracts that are in force, since the responsible countries are not doing so, but we immediately started to introduce order between these subsidies and found that almost no beneficiary of the subsidies met the obligations of the contract they signed, and then we stopped all subsidies on that basis. (Vladimir Orlic): Whose words were they? Did someone send one of Zivkovic to fake his introduction as Sasa Radulovic? Are there two Sasha Radulovics? There's one who likes sessions and one who doesn't like, one who wants to close the railways and one who won't. Is there one who won the election and one who won 1%? ) Of course, since it is not your goal to talk about facts, it would only be to attack, or try to offend the other side, and here it continues to throw, perhaps to let you go. Come on, tell your colleague Orlic, let's hear it. (Vladimir Orlic: How many Radulovica is there? A little louder, people can't hear you throw away. (Vladimir Orlic: How many Radulovic, one or two?) Here, I gave you a chance, so you broke up. So, since this throw, there's nothing. The point is, these subsidies are a waste of money. I broke it off. While I was a minister, I had a huge conflict with Alexander Vukic about it, and no, I wasn't targeted, I resigned because the government had no intention, and it was shown in the time that came after, to introduce order into any area of society. All they care about is building their own partocracies and continuing to live on the backs of citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16693	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16694	By amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's some facts. I have full understanding of the fact that Mr. Sasa Radulovic is one gentle soul. Every gentle soul is hardly offended, slandered, untrue, but let's see if this is true or false. December 25, 2009, draft bankruptcy manager Saša Radulovic in the bankruptcy process of debtors Social enterprise First Serbian Sugar Factory "Dimitrija Tucovic 1898" Belgrade sent to the Agency for Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, the Centre for Banking, to allow the engagement of "E-business Service" from Belgrade, 15/4 Student Square Street to provide bookkeeping services starting on 1 November 2009. Then, the same proposal, Mr. Arsic, Commissioner Sasa Radulovic, in the process of forced liquidation of the Company's shoes factory "Moda" Kovacica, to allow the conclusion of a bookkeeping contract with the company "E-business Service", represented by the director of Tatjana Radulovic. Well, then, Sasa Radulovic's proposal in the emergency liquidation process of the DPP "Lune Milovanovic" Bavanište, to allow the conclusion of a contract with the company "E-business Service" with Director Tatjana Radulovic to carry out bookkeeping activities. Well, then, the proposal from the creditor of the bankruptcy manager Saša Radulovic of 18 February 2010, in the process of bankruptcy of the debtors of the company's shoe company "MODA" Debeljac, to allow the conclusion of the contract on the provision of accounting services with the company "E-business service", says the aim of protecting and calming creditors etc., etc. I was talking about it the other day, so this gentle soul, who hardly falls into the truth, said that we from the SNS are lying, so when we don't have other arguments we're fighting against a man who managed to get fewer votes than there were white ballots in the presidential election, and he said it wasn't true what we from the SNS claimed to be him, his best man and his wife, if I wasn't wrong, although it's more difficult to figure out who his wife is now, who he's the best man, I'm going to try these names to get to the truth, they said it wasn't true. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the people, the respected citizens of Serbia, when Mr. Sasa Radulovic says that order should be put in the economy, as well as in Smederjev's "Gelezar", as it seems in practice. This is a ProNET account sent to you by "Belgrade beer industry, malt and non-alcoholic beverages" in restructuring, account No 1/3/14, says a description of the service – payment under the contract to provide consulting services 30% after signing the contract. So, 30%. Do you know how much it's worth in this account? It brings out 690 thousand dinars, and it says in letters six hundred ninety thousand dinars, that those who may not understand themselves well in numbers may read it. Do you know who's the signer for ProNET? Sandra Savanović Stevanovic. If I am not mistaken, the wife of Alexander Stevanovic, MP, "Enough has been done". Here, it's the introduction of order into the economy. I can also read you a contract on the provision of consulting services. He says -- between "ProNET" Budimska 6, Belgrade represented by Sandra Savanović Stevanovic, with the "Belgrade beer industry, malt and non-alcoholic drinks" of Belgrade, in restructuring, represented by Milivoje Draganic. Article 1 - the subject of this contract on the provision of consulting rights and obligations, where BIP only has obligations, and these have only rights, between the contracting authorities and the contractors of project activities related to, so pay attention to large letters, promotion of sales and human resources in the sector of the sale of the stock company "Belgrade beer industry, malt and non-alcoholic beverages" Belgrade, in the restructuring and proposal for optimal market positioning. In other words, they provide fog as services, do nothing, but that's why in the name of only 30%, it's probably called an advance, they get 690,000 dinars per contract concluded with BIP, which was in restructuring, and ProNET. So these are the facts. Someone might like this, not like it, hurt or hurt, but these are facts. When Mr. Radulovic talks about the withdrawal of money, about the pumping of money, about how it is done, he understands himself best, he's nothing else in life, he's never done anything but a bankruptcy manager, he's had his own firm, he's concluded with himself a contract on the provision of bookkeeping services and through his friends, godfathers, current ones, I won't say any party colleagues, since he's not got a party, now he's become fashionable in Serbia, because you don't have the power to establish a party, then you start a movement, through his colleagues from the movement, he's been pulling money from companies that were either in bankruptcy or in restructuring, and in 2011, the year 2011, the Agency for licensing of bankruptcy managers gave him public notices and fines in the amount of 100,000 dinars because, by performing a bankruptcy manager, he committed a burden of duties, among others, and so on the roads. We have a solution to the Court of Commerce in Belgrade where it is burdened by what I read in these proposals, but this will be detailed by Mr. Marijan Rističević, who was co-founder and co-owner of the company's company "E-business Service", and in the light of the provisions of the Company Act and the definition of conflicts of interest under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, it finds that it has just violated the provisions of Article 7(4) of the Code of Ethics for Banks, etc., etc. I can read it by tomorrow, this is how Mr. Arsic, in Serbian, says order in the Serbian economy, which means -- put your own hand in the pocket of a company you're a bankruptcy manager and put that money at the expense of your own firm. There, that is the solution Sasa Radulovic offers for the Serbian economy, she thinks the citizens didn't recognize it. They recognized, and Mr. Sasa Radulovic received fewer votes in the presidential elections than there were invalid ballots in the ballot boxes. Who doesn't get it, he seems in politics, absolutely, doesn't understand anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16695	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16696	Mr. Arsic, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 32's 1st position. The Rules of Procedure, which binds me, as vice president, to assist the President in the work. I am really glad that you have shown exceptional flexibility today, that you have allowed MPs to speak as much as they will, because you know, remember, the position of the Serbian Radical Party has always been that the Rules of Procedure cannot and should not be limited on the subject or on time. The fact is, you're doing this today to fill the time so we don't finish working day in two hours, so the media doesn't deal with the team. I'd like for another reason to help you, colleague Arsic. It seems that you forgot one fact, I think it would be good to remind you, to tell both Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Radulovic, i.e. Martinovic, first of all, that everything he says about Radulovic is probably true, but to remind him that these were the main references, which is why Aleksandar Vukic took him to the government in time. You should remember, I don't have to help you like this. So let the debate continue, let as many people as they want and about whatever they want be, it is the ultimate true democracy in the National Assembly, but only for the sake of the public and that some future candidates for ministers should be the same as Martinovic represents Radulovic and that it is guaranteed that Vucic or some Vucic's successor will take them to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16697	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, especially the advertised member. The president, while she was holding the presidency, set standards that I must respect as vice president. I have to answer that. Also, all these references read by Mr. Martinovic are to be resolved as minister. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16698	Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16699	You have your word, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16700	Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16701	You don't have the right to a replica, because you said the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16702	How come I don't have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16703	Just like Mr. Martinovic didn't get.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16704	I don't have the right to a replica. Okay, thank you. You obviously respect the Rules of Procedure well. First, I welcome this initiative by the ruling majority. We could devote all day to me. I'd be very happy to. I'm so glad you're paying so much attention. Of course, you're making complete lies, and Radeta's colleague should know that this one is false, because if any of this were true, and in the least, that there's anything illegal about it, that I've ever taken and put in my pocket, he'd be prosecuted and in prison by now. Since that's not true, I call on the ruling majority to initiate the proceedings, because they can't run them, they're just telling stories like this. To learn something from the ruling majority, since, so far, I don't know how many times, they've misrepresented it. Alexander Stevanović is not my best man, nor was he ever. I met him in 2012. When I was married, he was 15 years old, so that's one big lie. For this contract spoken of by the ruling majority, I know nothing about it. At that moment, the BIP was headed by the SNS. So they're responsible for running that firm. Why did they sign contracts or not, that's a question for them. I didn't do any of that and stuff like that. She was involved, however, in the privatisation agency, and at the time Mr. Martinovic was on the Management Board, so his job was to deal with these things and whether the contracts were good or not. So it really has nothing to do with me. Alexander Stevanović is not my best man, nor was he ever. However, they continue with these stories, what to do. I'd like him to devote himself to me all day, because we could talk a lot about, and our careers, and what I've been doing. As far as bankruptcy is concerned, I'm proud of everything I've done in bankruptcy, I've never put a single dime in my pocket. I've done everything in accordance with the law and in the interest of the trustees. During that time, I caught various thieves who were robbing, who tried to damage the trustees. Let's just say, if I was a bankruptcy manager at Zeka's firm, there's a bunny who has companies, so I left a lot of them in debt, I'd put that bunny in jail, as I've already done for many, as manager. Since that, when you do your job right, when you challenge harmful contracts, when you challenge these robberies that were happening, say, you privatize the firm, someone puts credits on the company, pulls the money out, and then lets the firm go bankrupt, well, I'm after them in court proceedings, and that's why the bankruptcy took a long time, because our courts are slow. Proud of all this, proud of working with Verica Barac, who is heroine of the Serbian political scene, we were trying to prevent the robbery that was happening in Serbia at the time. As far as accounting is concerned, citizens should know that the firm being spoken of is part of the bankruptcy office, so the office of the bankruptcy manager, that consent to all the things being done, that the first director of the Bank of the Privatisation Agency, so the bankruptcy judge who brings the solution and signs consent to the signing of any contract, then the Committee of Trustees, so that they were all in agreement, what was done. At that time, the Accounting and Audit Act prescribed that accounting in a company could be run only or employed by the company, meaning to be in a permanent working relationship or to hire an agency to run those jobs. Since you don't have the money to pay for all of this, and you have three accountants, then you separate part of the office from the agency, which then charges those services and goes to pay these people and the cost is where and where less than any other bankruptcy. If you run an average of what's done in bankruptcy, you'd see it. Since she saw it and the Director of the Centre for Banking of the Agency for Privatisation, understood this legal obligation and the judge who ran the case, then saw that their costs were reduced, then they said of course there was no conflict of interest, because it was money for the salaries of the accountant who did it and at much lower prices, which, somewhere, the citizens know, about the money that the esteemed colleague is talking about, it's about five to ten thousand dinars a month, depending on the size and goes to the salaries of those employees, is not enough, I had to make up for the rest of their salaries. But it doesn't matter to them. All they care about is getting rid of a man who does his job, who hunts down thieves who break up companies, who showed up and proved it, and try to plant some things that they have nothing to do with the truth. This is how you muddle every decent man who does his job. I'm not offended and I don't mind hearing this stuff. I'm just a decent man. These things that are being brought out are extremely rude. You have fiction, blaming things, talking about things you don't understand, trying to show things the way they didn't happen. Once again, I underline, I'm proud of everything I've done in bankruptcy, and I've always worked in the interests of trustees and in the interest of protecting bankruptcy, and if I've done any of these things in all these companies, I've managed to protect them from the thieves who robbed them. For example, one of these companies that were mentioned in the Debeljaca had one director who pointed out the SNS, who practically borrowed the company, and eventually took over all the halls on himself, so I caught him too, processed him, filed criminal charges, then managed to return those halls to the property of the bankruptcy. There's a lot of examples like this. There's not enough time to talk about them all. I underline once again, when they talk about things like this, they attack decent, honest people. They're trying to wrap them up. It is a sure sign to you, dear citizens, that it is a lack of arguments, that the fear of a fundamental discussion about that there is no reform in Serbia, that they have increased all taxes and contributions, that they are robbing the country, that virtually their incompetent personnel are creating huge losses for all of us and that they are trying to make up for it by taking away pensions, taking away salaries, putting their hands in the pockets of citizens and businesses, and that's why Serbia is failing. We're talking hundreds of millions of euros, we're talking billions of euros. It's the irresponsibility of this government, so to hide from it, they're talking about thousands of dinars trying to do the most normal business and the work of people who do it to prevent the robbery, stop the property, try to make a circus out of it, and blame them for doing something dishonest. Underneath every level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16705	According to the businessman Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16706	Mr. Arsic, I trust you wouldn't be able to help Mrs. Bulajic without the help of the President if you were to tell the President at this time what is being discussed here, even the applicant of the amendment is no longer there. This has been going on for hours. Everything that Martinovic said about Radulovic is true and vice versa, and this whole farce is, as Radet's colleague said, to waste and crush time and create an illusion that you are considering and talking seriously, and that you want to discuss this topic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16707	Just say so, colleague Jovanovic, which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16708	Article 32(2), since you are replacing the current President of the Assembly. If you gentlemen of the SNS wanted to talk seriously about this subject, not create such an illusion that you care and know all about this, you would wonder why the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have an analysis of the negative impact of everything that happens on the economy. Why don't you have an analysis of what's going on with over 20 banks that are in front of bankruptcy or are in front of bankruptcy? In this case, how will the agency you're taking away some of the funds be treated and how will they fund those who have their own savings when it goes bankrupt? I suggest, Mr. Arsic, that you be the chairperson, so the most I've heard from you, leave it to my colleague Radeti, in order to continue the debate on this topic in a more democratic manner. I believe she'd do much better in that role than you do, because it's obvious that you can't handle yourself in a double role. You, when you spoke, there is more than an hour and a time, about the amendment of a MP whose proposal to amend and supplement the law, we are now discussing, and I believe you didn't even know what it said in the amendment's proposal, because you were completely saying otherwise. Which we don't mind. The Serbian Radical Party advocates speaking absolutely freely here, in the most democratic way you want. But let us break one farce in which you accuse each other, and in fact it is absolutely known that you supported Radulovic, he supported you and that everything you say about each other is an absolute farce. Think about it, because you can see for yourself that you are not in this situation, that Mrs. Radeta should take over the chairmanship of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16709	Thank you, colleague Natasha. Obviously, these three minutes you spent was to send a message, which is that Martinovic and Radulovic support each other. As far as my session is concerned, I am grateful to Mrs. Bulajic, who helps me conduct the session. I'd manage on my own, but it's easier this way, be sure of it, and as you can see, and as you yourselves know, it's the MPs who participate in the debate. We've allowed a little broader interpretation of the agenda. I knew very well as I pointed out that it was an amendment that he submitted among others and Mr Obradovic, where funds from the Deposit Insurance Agency can only be used for programme financing of the budget, and he said that several times in the discussion. If that's funny, no problem. The Faith of Radet, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16710	Mr. Radulovic said in his statement that he thinks I should know that Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic is not telling the truth. I really don't want to be an arbitrationist between Martinovic and Radulovic. I tend to think that both of them are right and usually when those on the same side are being debated, or have the same political goals, then it is certainly best to accept that they are both right. The truth is that we're used to Alexander Martinovic changing his mind and that he used to represent other attitudes, that he used to speak differently, but that certainly doesn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16711	I don't know who you're replicating. Mr. Radulovich or SNS?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16712	Mr. Radulovic, because he said that he thinks I should know that Martinovic is not telling the truth. So, very precise, Mr. Arsic. Very precise. I am saying that I cannot know this and that I am inclined to believe and that Martinovic is telling the truth about Radulovic and that Radulovic is telling the truth about Martinovic and I explain that I know that Martinovic once had different political views, that he once discussed in another way, that he was once a fierce opponent of the EU, that he was a serious nationalist. All this changed right from the moment he began to support, among other things, Saša Radulovic as a member of the government of Aleksandr Vukic. Indeed, it should not be allowed to forget that Radulovic was a member of the government of Aleksandr Vukic and that the one he chose in the government, which is Vukic, which is you gentlemen who voted, must have at least a sense of responsibility if this is what you say about him, it is your responsibility that you are, in fact, someone you say is a criminal, that you chose this criminal in government. You can't wash off that responsibility because you're talking about him like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16713	I took 30 seconds to break up my colleague, Radetta. Don't say that, Mr. Honey. Since it is today the president of the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic's birthday, I withdraw my warning to you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I admit that there are more nationalists than me and bigger opponents than I am, but I also know that people who have the courage to admit a mistake are progressing in politics, and you infallibles from elections to elections are getting fewer and fewer votes. But if I wasn't in your business right now, you wouldn't matter. Whoever gets fewer votes than the White Flies, we'll deal with him some other time. Here's a gentleman with a gentle heart, who's having a hard time falling, says, slander and insult, said he was fighting some thugs. Here's what that gentleman was doing. This is just so there's no confusion, like we're making something up here right now, we're lying. This is a 2011 solution when the SNS was not in the power of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, where among other things it is said in the explanation of the decision punishing Sasa Radulović - that the bankruptcy manager Radulović is an indisputable co-founder of the company "E Business Service" d.o.o. Belgrade is engaged in the provision of accounting services. So, the indisputable co-founder. The same person was involved in the bankruptcy proceedings over the bankruptcy debtor "New Highway" a.d. in Belgrade's bankruptcy, which is determined by form number four of the list 1345, and then further said - the alleged bankruptcy director Radulovic was not founded to prohibit him from hiring a legal person, whose member is a withdrawal co-owner as a professional person. Everyone has the right to own a legal person's capital in their property, but the code of ethics prohibits conflict of interest. The others are quoted as saying by the bankruptcy manager, Mr. Sasa Radulovic, as not relevant to the decision-making process. By estimating the severity of the violation of duty, the disciplinary council finds that in a particular case it is a serious injury to duty. The bankruptcy manager acted against the imperative provisions of the law and against the code of ethics. The bankruptcy manager, so Sasa Radulovic, former economy minister, one of the SNS' mistakes, so we openly acknowledge that, the bankruptcy manager Sasa Radulovic has committed more irregularities in the work. That's how he says - I didn't steal any dinars, who proved to me that I took anything, and the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers says - a bankruptcy mass was threatened in this way. The bankruptcy mass was put at risk by the fact that the banks were not timely informed of the opening of the bankruptcy. The bankruptcy mass is damaged. So take care of what it says. Sasa Radulovic knows the procedure. And he told us what it says in the bankruptcy law, but he did everything contrary to what it says in the law. Because here's what the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers says, the bankruptcy is damaged by the payments made to the persons who were executed without the consent of the bankruptcy judge. So, all these payments to your own company you worked without the consent of a bankruptcy judge. The bankruptcy manager, by hiring a company whose co-owner, has brought himself into conflict of interest and created conditions for obtaining profits from bankruptcy beyond legal frameworks. So it's written in the Agency's decision to license bankruptcy managers in 2011. Where's the SNS sin? Which we obviously missed. But we missed it in a very short time, from September to December 2013, when Sasa Radulovic, headlessly escaped from the Ministry of Economy, so he couldn't do much damage, even though he had an obvious intention. As he systematically destroyed all companies where he was a bankruptcy manager and acted contrary to the Bank's Banking Act and against the Code of Ethics of Banks, as also confirmed by the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, as well as the Commercial Court in Belgrade. Therefore, when Sasa Radulovic says – show me the papers that I was stealing, here is the solution, only one of the decisions of the Agency for Licensing of Banks Agency and says – show me the court's decision, here is the Decision of the Business Court in Belgrade again from 2011, where Sasa Radulovic is relieved of the duties of the bankruptcy manager in the case of bankruptcy against the GP "New Highway", in bankruptcy, from Belgrade. But, award-winning question for Sasa Radulovic, is there a firm in Serbia where he was not a bankruptcy manager? Is there a company? I counted at least 15 here. My folder, as you can see, is quite extensive. I don't have time to read all this, in all these companies Sasa Radulović was a bankruptcy manager and worked one thing and the same – I concluded with myself a bookkeeping contract and achieved enormous profits. And then he says, "I have a solution to the Serbian economy." Here, these are his solutions to the Serbian economy. All in bankruptcy, all for sale and everything for me. But that is not the solution to the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16715	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16716	Thank you, Chairman. Once again, it's very nice, we could spend all day with me, so if we had a discussion about it, that would be very good. Let me now inform the esteemed and respected MP that this illegal solution was brought by the corrupt Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, who was in charge of Mladjan Dinkic, who is today an adviser to Alexander Vukic for Arab Affairs. So, the continuity has been going since then, so after this is an illegal and truly completely distorted solution, the court has abolished that solution. So then, when the SNS came back to the Agency, she gave another solution like that, so the court suspended the second time. Then, after that, the third time again brought an illegal solution, because they protect those who robbed those who fought against them, and then the third time after that, the Agency came up with solutions to make it easier to hurt, so the court suspended it for the third time. So this is what a circus with corrupt state agencies looks like, against people fighting a bankruptcy robbery. To repeat one more time, I never took a single dime from anyone. These things that have been read have been brought down in court, since, of course, the bankruptcy judge has given consent and, of course, the Director of the Banks Agency has given consent and, of course, the Committee of Trustees and the creditors themselves have given consent, since there is no conflict of interest nor can there be. But there's one more thing that's very interesting, and this is where they find out they missed this. These people from the SNS. Let me tell you, before I was suggested to be Minister of Business, I gave a written explanation to Alexander Vukic. I have an e-mail about it, so I would love it if Alexander Vukic had the courage to use MPs in the Assembly instead of using MPs and setting them up with things they were going to say, to go out on a TV duel and show him this e-mail in which I told him all of this today and the way it was done and why it was corrupt and how I fought for it all, that he knew and then he knew how much I was doing on the subject of 24 controversial privatisations, what we did there. Found all the evidence Verica Barac claimed, however, does not interest him, is only interested in defaming political opponents. Once again, I'm proud of everything I've done. All these things that have been read have been suspended by the court three times. There's no doubt that the ruling majority will continue to try to grumble with this. It's important for citizens, I never put a dinar in my pocket, which doesn't belong to me as a fee. These things we're talking about are paid by people who've been doing bookkeeping. Employees at these companies know how much I fought for their interests and what I did and at the Vršačka brewery to prevent the robbery, and in Sugarna to prevent the property from going to Bud-why. So, in all the cases where I performed as a bankruptcy manager. So I also worked as a minister, preventing robbery, the PPV itself and his family, so I will continue to work because Serbia is being eaten by the partocracy, corruption and the Burazer economy that is related to it. That's what's destroying us, and now instead of talking about the essence today, MPs of the ruling coalition are dealing with me and trying some false stories, twisting things to show to God that I've done something wrong. If I did, I'd be processed already, be sure, all the leverage authorities have, but since they don't have anything, then they can only talk to the cameras like this and try to make a circus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16717	I'm sure he'll go out on TV with Alexander Wolfich when he enters the second round of presidential. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16718	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if Sasa Radulovic is going to be easier, here, I admit, Sasa Radulovic has never been a bankruptcy manager in any of the social enterprises, Sasa Radulovic is not co-owner of the company "E-business Service", Sasa Radulovic has never concluded with himself a contract to provide bookkeeping services, there is no solution to the Agency for Licensing Banks, there is no solution to the Business Court in Belgrade, I invented it all because I am very afraid of a man who won a little more than 1% of the votes in the elections, but there is something that is true. The truth is, says Sasa Radulovic, an e-mail that he sent to Aleksandra Vukic, saying he was also a bankruptcy manager, in which he stated that he himself had concluded a contract on the provision of accounting services, stating that he was co-owner of the company "E-business Service", in which he said that in 2011, the corrupt one, he said, was fined by the Agency for Licensing Banks by a fine of 100,000 dinars. The e-mail also said that the Commercial Court in Belgrade relieved him of his duties as a bankruptcy administrator because he violated the law. So, it's all true what I say, I admit it, but it's all true what it says in Sasa Radulovic's e-mail to Alexander Vukic, and in which all these facts appear to be much more detailed than I did here in the Assembly to do. Since Mr. Sasa Radulovic probably has more information about his actions and his misdeeds while he was a bankruptcy manager than I am, and that's what's contained in that e-mail, here, I beg you, Mr. Radulovic, bring us that email, so that we have more information about what you were doing while you were a bankruptcy manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16719	Time, fellow Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16720	Why does this have to do with the agenda? Serbia's economy, ladies and gentlemen, has been brought into this state, among others, and because of such ones as Sasa Radulovic. To return to the beginning of the crisis, Makijaveli said back in the 16th century – when a country came into crisis, it should, in order to get out of the crisis, return to the causes of the crisis. Now let's see what's causing this crisis. The causes of this crisis are the monster that hit us in 2009 and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16721	My friend Martinovic, I have to interrupt. You've got two minutes. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16722	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament continue to work. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Olena Papuga, Nenad Canak, Dr Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16723	Just to remind you, it's not good when the deposit insurance law and the Deposit Insurance Agency Act are complemented, that the text proposed is identical. That means there's something wrong with these two laws. This translation means that this law defining the competences of the Deposit Insurance Agency in some way prescribes what is a material legal provision. But, well, it's already an integral part of our legal system. We asked by amendment that, if the Fund's funds for deposit insurance, and those foreign funds, they must in some way be placed in securities of value, to be short-term securities of value. In the meantime, you accepted the amendment, and then you gave up the original idea that 100% of these foreign exchange assets were placed in securities of value, in debt securities of value, you already said that only 25% could be placed. That's how you actually admit what's wrong with this concept that you imagined. Well, let's get in line. I would just remind myself of this: when the state is in debt on the financial market, it does so to finance the budget deficit, or to raise funds for some public projects. A long time ago, when the Republic of Serbia is broadcasting securities of value, long-term, it is not due for some capital projects, but for the last seven years, it is in debt for it to need funds to service its public debt. Why service it? Because in July 2012, public debt was around 15 billion euros, and today public debt is almost 25 billion euros. That's what needs to be served. In practice, it is possible to service the so-called. With a reprogramme, some new loans, some new loans, to pay off the commitments made on previously taken loans, however, Serbia no longer fulfils the criteria of the World Bank or these European banks, and is then forced to provide funds by broadcasting securities of value and sales on the market. They used to be Eurobonds, and that's just what we're going to get heads to do, as the commitments come in, and the last few years of the formula is borrowing on the domestic market. The operation is very simple. Through the Public Debt Administration is traded with a limited number of entities, mostly banks and brokerage houses that buy securities of value, and it has its own interest and it has some obligations. It is technically legally served from the budget. Legally, it means that when you buy goods as a citizen, you are obliged to pay VAT and excise duty, and out of that VAT and excise duty, the state returns debts to business banks in the Republic of Serbia, both principal and interest, and thus every citizen of the Republic of Serbia as a consumer, is through the state and through the Public Debt Administration in a credit relationship with a business bank. When the state said that the Deposit Insurance Agency could fund the funds that exist in the Deposit Insurance Fund to use to buy securities from value, then it was a message that the deficit and something that is the priority of the Republic of Serbia should be financed. These two laws don't concern the Agency, they concern the Deposit Insurance Fund. I remind you, in 2012, the Deposit Insurance Fund failed because it failed because of the Vojvodine Development Bank, Nova Agrobanka, Agrobanka, the Business Bank of Belgrade and the obligations the Agency had to have towards the depositors. The entire Agency in its entire business, and its business includes other capital-free jobs, and therefore the Republic of Serbia concluded a contract with the World Bank in 2012, which is a project to support the Deposit Insurance Agency, has committed 145,300m euros, and this project is a 144,748m-euro project on 31 March this year, which means that the Republic of Serbia is serving its obligation to the World Bank neatly. That's the negative interest that's being talked about in the bill. The bill says that this negative interest is related to the Agency. No, that negative interest is related to the liabilities the state pays to the World Bank on the basis of this loan. The agency, mostly financed in that part of the Deposit Insurance Fund over premiums, pays 21m euros every three months to the fund. We just had a chance to hear that the Fund has 400m euros and now some smart head has figured out how to get those funds out of that Fund to be in the function of financing the deficits of the Republic of Serbia. I need to draw your attention, all the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund, are in the accounts of the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia is legally doing commission work for the Agency, which means already under the existing law, for dinar funds that are about 18% of the Fund, state charters are already being purchased from values broadcast by the Republic of Serbia, which are on dinars. Now the operation is how to make those 80 per cent, the foreign exchange funds in the account of the National Bank of Serbia, and the account owner and user account is the Deposit Insurance Agency, how to get into the financing of deposits, i.e. deficits of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Therefore, practically this law allows the Agency to, on behalf of the National Bank of Serbia on behalf of the Agency, buy securities of value for the Agency, so to speak, budget spending, and the Agency has paper resources, in fact, no funds, but you forgot one thing there. This is how you questioned a contract that exists between the Republic of Serbia and the World Bank regarding the financing of this project. Someone will report you to use these funds without purpose. These funds that you received from the World Bank are primarily dedicated funds that must be in the function of the Agency, in the function of the Fund, which are mobile assets, so that if a bank cracks, it starts paying off deposits and saving citizens, so that citizens are not damaged. There's a paradoxical thing going on. Bank owners are mostly natural persons, these are private banks retail in the good part and their entire business is at the level of a private business. Then the question arises – and why does the state guarantee through the Agency? It must guarantee as long as it has this kind of foreign policy and this kind of security of the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia. It's 14.5 billion euros. Be careful not to get a ticket from the World Bank, why you are not purposely using funds per project to resuscitate our Deposit Insurance Agency. That's the danger. We are from two amendments to Article 1, first – to delete this member, second – to focus on short-term securities of value we wanted to distract you, in Serbia's economy something is wrong. Is it possible that the largest capital market contribution is provided by the Republic of Serbia? Is it possible? To draw attention to the huge danger to the economy, finance and in general the system in Serbia is too much liquidity for banks. Our banks have nowhere to place their funds. Therefore, in order not to lose on the substance, in order not to escape from this market, the state is broadcasting securities of value, giving them large profits, large interest, large yields and thus forcing them to stay in Serbia, because payment traffic is now at the banks, there is no more SDK. Be careful. I think that of these additions, these two laws are potentially more harmful than any benefit can be.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16724	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16725	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow Members, we have discussed on the Committee this amendment, which speaks of limiting a certain part of the foreign funds that will practically be put into office and in order to increase the practical liquidity of that fund itself, but also potential risks which, of course, can always be in certain conditions. As a result, the Minister adopted this amendment to the Finance Committee, and I thank you this time. So I urge all colleagues to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16726	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Comrade Djurishic, you want to follow this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16727	I think this amendment shows that these amendments to the law are not as simple and so benign as it was here in the last two days, that we have one simple situation that because of the disturbance in the international capital market, the negative interest where we keep the funds of the Deposit Insurance Agency for purely economic reasons, we are better off buying paper than the values issued by the National Bank and that it is all simple and awesome and that all countries in the world are doing so and there are no problems. It is obvious that someone suggested that such a way of managing is not good, or if all the funds, the 380 million that exist, were used in this way to send a bad message and to have a more significant impact on the domestic securities market. Then there's a restriction here that only one quarter of the money can be used that way, which is very unusual when you read this law to put one such restriction into the law. Why, then, the managing authorities of that agency, if the argument is that it is to respect the basic principle of diversification? So someone manages this fund on behalf of the Republic of Serbia and these funds and, I believe, gets a decent salary for it. Now we limit them here and teach them what the basic concept of diversification is. So let's legislate everything, how much money it takes to be in dinars, how much money it takes to be in foreign exchanges, in which currency, where banks, put everything in law, and we don't need the Agency's governing bodies at all. I think this is saying that this is not such a meaningless change and what Mr Krasic and other fellow MPs have said, that clearly the different intentions of the promoters than those presented here in the previous two days are different. That is why I believe that this amendment, as well as this whole law, should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16728	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16729	This is another amendment coming from the ruling majority, one way or another. I think the essence of accepting this amendment is much greater than what the government has stated in its reasoning as a reason for accepting the amendments. Namely, according to an amendment to be accepted or accepted, the words "as long as these circumstances persist". So, the government has proposed here that extremely, as this change begins, under the circumstances of the capital market disturbance, it is extremely possible to move forward with this activity, but eventually it has to end as long as these circumstances last. Now we have here the acceptance of amendments to delete that part, which means in translation, in the way this government has functioned for the past five years, that this will last suddenly, not exceptionally, as long as the circumstances continue, but as long as the promoter, or in this case, if such a law is passed, as long as it is deemed necessary, and not as long as the circumstances persist. If it were not just a language matter, then the amendments submitted by the LDP and LSV parliamentary group, which also had only one language change, would probably have been accepted, to delete the word "extremely". I repeat, it's obviously not such a benign thing here and so simple. Here is the intention of another, the intention that the growing problem of filling and not finding funds to reduce deficits is obviously found in these funds, that's the problem. That's why this law is bad and we won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16730	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16731	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow MPs, above all, the idea of this amendment was not to repeat the part that applies to respect for the circumstances at all. Why? Because I am the law and the changes that apply begin at the moment of creating such circumstances to function at all this change. What does that mean? This means when certain circumstances are created, or when they are negative interest rates, this is the moment when it is essential to begin to operate this law, that when they are in a positive effect we have the opportunity to manage securities of value as states, we earn something, that we start the whole process, with the consent of the National Bank of Serbia. So, the Deposit Insurance Agency can't do anything unless it's working together with the National Bank of Serbia, the whole job. If we say that as long as these circumstances last, then we can lead to the fact that whoever started this whole procedure, and we get to the point where the circumstances break down, is in a situation that he won't be able to practically complete all the proceedings, when it comes to trading securities of value. That is why it is essentially this formulation – while these circumstances are being deleted, because it is decadently giving the opportunity to do business together between the Agency and the National Bank of Serbia, and with respect for all the participants in the capital market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16732	Thank you, colleagues. The word is made by MP Goran Kovacevic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16733	Just for a little while. On the Committee on Budgets, I think that we have agreed and determined all those present, that the key element of the existence of a negative interest rate is the moment when you do not have a negative interest rate, then you do not have the exceptional conditions to place financial resources at the level of the previous amendment up to one quarter in the paper of values issued by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia and which are bonds of the Republic of Serbia, up to one quarter. Just to be clear, the gentleman is right when he says that we've brought an amendment to the height to be up to one quarter, because we think it has to do with the manual, first of all, our debts, our obligations, the insurance that exists. We assume that much of the money in our banking system is, in fact, in euros. One part in dinars, one part in dollars. We don't have a problem with financial resources, which we place on the basis of insurance through the National Bank in dinars, because we place them into securities worth 5.6 in dinar value, or 2% are sold when they're in euro. We have a problem with euros that we place outside Serbia's borders and therefore we think that one quarter of the reason we have to keep our capital, while not coming into the risk zone that the funds that, based on deposit insurance, are placed from the National Bank, come into the liquidity problem. So we don't want to jeopardize the primary deposit insurance function, which is liquidity, and that's why we're reducing, more or less this amount to one quarter. You didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16734	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16735	First of all, I want to draw what we have been talking about for several days, and I think that Minister Vujovic has been in the debate in a very, very, very good way, understandable to everyone and the entire public the reasons for the adoption of this law, and above all, from the point of view of the fact that this law is in a function of keeping, to say, the essence of these funds that are in place, as funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund, that, due to all these global parameters, we do not lose interest rates on matter, to maintain liquidity, to reduce risks and as such this law, I believe that we should get support in this House. When it comes to the 25%, there is simply no conspiracy theory, nor should it be sought at all. I repeat, in line with the amendment, the amendment has also been analysed from the point of view of diversification and risk reduction, it is as acceptable. When it comes to words, as long as these circumstances last, the word is clear, to say, to the virgin, because there is no need for these words to stand, because they are entirely in contradiction, with the very manuality of the paper that defines this question, as the question defines the negative interest rates that are the key element, which is why the amendment of this law has been approached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16736	I thank the ministers. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16737	I have to distract myself. Here the term is incorrectly used – negative interest. For three to four years, the EU has promoted the principle of negative interest. Why? To prevent malfeasance on the financial market, where a credit institution lends credit to a credit institution. When these funds are borrowed, interest payments are imposed. That's a negative interest. Here is not the situation, the state took the loan and it pays the World Bank interest, and the Deposit Insurance Agency keeps the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund in deposit accounts, which it must legally have with the National Bank of Serbia. There's no negative business at the Fund. That's the replacement you're talking about. When the funds of the foreign exchange fund are placed somewhere abroad to protect themselves, then they fall under this, that the credit institution is working with a credit institution. It hasn't been since 2007, when the Agency suffered the loss of 11.8 million dinars, why? Because she was doing business with records of the value of the German state. You have a problem, as up to 400m euros, deposited at the National Bank, to fund the deficit, because you can no longer provide funds otherwise. I'll read all your duties to you later. And for KVF and these other things, to see how much you've burdened Serbia, uncontrollable by borrowing. Not you and your predecessors and all those who have been heading towards the EU since 2000 at all costs, not choosing how much it will cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16738	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16739	Our amendment, to this position, is to delete attitude 2 and that the law does not enter into force, because we believe that the law is bad, or that this amendment is not properly explained and that there are some hidden intentions. I was not convinced, neither by Mr Vujovic last week, nor today by Mr Antic, as a proponent, that this is just about what is being said. That's why they give us the right and these two amendments, which look like they came from the National Bank, which is not the other institution, because the emergency law was able to get to know the solutions that are being proposed here and that we're discussing, and that's why we think it's bad to adopt such a solution that we still need to talk about it, because, as we heard, this phenomenon of negative interest, if we call it that, didn't happen a week or two days ago, but two and a half years ago. If he had to react, he must have had to react, but in these few days, for normal legal procedure and discussion was something he needed. What is particularly interesting about these amendments, to Article 2 is when it is proposed that, as a result of the fact that it is necessary for the law to enter into force urgently. This law does not accept this by the Proposer, referring to the meaning of Article 196(4). The Constitution. I would like the government to have a consistent position and that, under other laws, it is almost the opposite rule, that the laws enter into force the next day of adoption in parliament, not eight days, as Article 196 states, that this applies to all the laws. If today as a congratulatory president, we've had greetings here by the MPs and by some flower, and we've extended the working age by adopting the law by an urgent procedure in the changes to the deadline for entry into force, and that such things don't happen anymore. That this parliament begins to work by respecting every time the Constitution and the law, so that laws do not enter into force immediately, the next day after publication, but within this eight-day period. But I urge the government and the motion that this refusal of this amendment be well read and remembered. And every time he read Article 196. The Constitution, when it comes here with some bill of law to come into force the next day after its publication in "The Official Messenger". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16740	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16741	Thanks again and again for a little while, one more time. Not to accept the proposal to delete Article 2, either this or any other, because I believe that the law benefits us and that we need it. After all, neither the amendment's proposer had any objection to anything, except that he was not aware of the special circumstances, at least that's how he listed it in his amendment. Well, since that's what it says, I believe he's established it by now. And, of course, there's no reason or argument about a court president. I suppose that meant those presidents of the courts who, but not only him, in 2009, were personally recommending the seal of the municipal board for a further time. It's not a topic today, but when you say it, you should read something well. Besides, it's a question of the reasons for the amendments and the oral reasoning we've heard now. It wouldn't be a bad thing not to put up with such amendments, to read the bill well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16742	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16743	I do not want to enter unnecessary controversy and disrupt the efficiency of Parliament's work, but I have to read, because of MPs who discuss it, an explanation and explanation of the individual solutions you have in the material that you have received: "Article 1. The draft shall add a new position in Article 7. The deposit insurance law provides for the possibility of investing in foreign banks' foreign exchange funds and foreign debt securities from the values issued by the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank of Serbia under the circumstances of significant changes in the international financial market." Dear MPs, I didn't invent a negative interest rate formulation, nor is that my interpretation. That's what it says in the material you got. And there's a negative interest rate on foreign banks' deposits, so I think the whole public knows. In some countries, Malten, you have to pay to keep your money. I guess we know that fundamentally from the general monitoring of public events. We have very specific data as to how much loss has taken place on this basis with the Deposit Insurance Fund and how much revenue the Fund would have made if it had been done in the manner prescribed by the law. And that is what bothers us more about this law and I absolutely have confidence and I simply ask that the Assembly also trust an absolute professional approach the Ministry of Finance has in this case, as well as the entire government, taking into account the best interests of the Republic of Serbia. Because nothing else bothers us, people, I guess that's clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16744	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Marko Djurisic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16745	It's a good thing the promoter, right now, is coming back, though, to these members that we've already passed and trying to explain to us how the funds are being taken care of and how we've lost some funds and how we've missed some profit, and now it's going to make it all right. But then the question arises, and then we should have discussed – and what were we waiting for? If the negative interest rates appeared in early 2015 and now May 2017, then what was done for those two and a half years and whose responsibility was it that we made some loss, or what was the opportunity to make some profit? I must admit that the afternoon debate looked like September 2013, when the government was reconstructed, in one of the many reincarnations. But if that's your argument, then what's been done for two and a half years? And then why is an emergency procedure now, within seven days, for the law to be passed, obviously without consulting the National Bank of Serbia? Right? These amendments are coming up that you want to adopt. So you haven't told the whole truth, and now you're bragging here that there's clearly some data. Why didn't you put them in the law? How am I as a MP to know that information? This is where we heard some information from other fellow Members of the People, who don't know how they got that information. But apparently all MPs are not equal. We see it here all the time, though. If we couldn't get, like all MPs, those numbers, there's a law, its reasoning, and all those numbers that you claim exist, you should have given us, so we have an argument. And not like this, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16746	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16747	I must point out that there are all the opinions of the National Bank of Serbia and that it is not good to quote such things here, and they are not absolutely correct. There are no differences on this basis with the National Bank, and I repeat, she gave her opinions. As it is not true that it all started in 2015, it had its own wave in 2016, and this bill was the result of an analysis of the indicators we had at the end of 2016. With respect to everyone here's need for political confrontation, mostly all parties participated at some point in the exercise of power and know that the process of recognising some fact to the very legal regulation that solves it, how much time it takes. At the very least, we were able to recognize the concrete effects only at the end of 2016. It is now May 2017 and the law is in front of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16748	Thank you. According to the amendment, there is a folk MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16749	Thank you. The question for Mr. Minister, given the little claim made that the law is perfectly, professionally prepared, carefully measured and that we, MPs who have objections, with or without amendments, do not understand. I ask you which version is professional, the one that has been sent or the one that has been amended by amendments, since the amendments of the key provisions of these few members have been amended? What did the National Bank give an opinion on, the previous version or the amendment? The amendments have changed the deadline, changed the conditions of excellence. In both laws, you have amendments to either the committee or the MP, which is completely legal and legitimate, completely alters what is the basic proposal to amend and supplement both in one law and in another. So, if, on behalf of the Government, you say that the law is perfectly, professionally prepared, I ask you which version of the law and which version of the provision has the National Bank delivered an opinion and has it been consulted at all? It is not the law nor the issue of political folklore, nor is it a question of relations between political parties, but it is a question of political folklore that the government's authorised representative so calmly declares that the law is impeccably, professionally prepared and that the law is in key parts of its provisions amended by MPs. Can't do both, either it's first or it's second. The answer that the National Bank had and gave its opinion, which you gave to MP Marko Đurisic, who asked the same question that I am now repeating, requires me to ask you what the National Bank has given an opinion on the amendment adopted yesterday and today on the Committee on Finance and agreed on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law or on the basic text of the amendments to the bill? He cannot give an opinion on both, since he has no time to give an opinion on this second case when the MP or the Committee on Finance submits an amendment that is then agreed so that it becomes an integral part of the draft law. The amendments submitted by the Committee will not be voted on. They became an integral part of the bill. I don't mind that you try, the public does, that you talk about it being a perfect proposal and that there are no changes, but it simply doesn't comply with the facts, it's not in line with what we read as a basic proposal for changes and additions and with how the law has already changed. In the voting day, you will only vote against or you will not vote at all, not you, ministers do not vote, but MPs will not vote, they will not be made known about amendments by MPs who have decided not to accept them. It is not serious enough and it is not worthy, I think, of our common roles in the adoption of the law, to make it so easy to make statements on professional law writing and on the opinion of the National Bank, because the consequences of a bad solution in both laws will be shared with the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16750	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16751	First of all, I did not say for a moment that MPs did not understand the law, but I only urged MPs to be on the stand that the Ministry of Finance and the Government had prepared this law from a point of view of the best interest for the Republic of Serbia. That's what I wanted to convey as someone else's opinion. Absolutely, God forbid, that I enter the qualifications of the way MPs understand or accept a certain legal solution. On the other hand, I don't think it's a good idea to create a completely wrong picture here that amendments have made some capital changes to the proposed solutions. First, this solution has only one essence, which is completely clear and simple, to protect ourselves from the consequences of negative interest rates, and everything else is some fine tuning. I am absolutely happy that parliament has also entered into the creation of this legal solution through amendments. I think I have agreed with individual MPs and predecessors in some previous experience as minister, that it is good when parliament accepts the amendment of the opposition. Here we are now at the level that the minority government is criticizing for accepting the amendments, and I believe that's an additional quality of all this. Finally, I really don't understand the need to make some confrontation here right now about this solution between the proposing and the National Bank. I assure you that on the very law of this member who has been deleted, I know with confidence that the minister has consulted with the National Bank absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16752	Thank you. Mr Minister, you, as well as the proposing representative, or the amendment promoter, have two minutes after the amendment. First of all, according to the amendment, the People's MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16753	We have a pretty simple change for anyone who wants to hear, but we have to go, Madam Parliament, from Article 8. The deposit insurance law, which says, quote what it says in Article 8. - dinar funds, so you have dinar funds and foreign money in the Deposit Insurance Agency, Article 8 says that you can now invest in state records of value issued by the Republic of Serbia under the old law. The problem arises in foreign funds. The money is in trouble, and that's why we're passing the law, because you have a negative interest rate. A colleague says it's about the interest we're paying. Yeah, he's right, it's the money we didn't have at the Insurance Fund, so we pulled credit funds, and that's why we're paying interest as a government in the budget. But that's not the problem, we're not solving it, we're solving a negative interest rate, because the Deposit Insurance Agency through the National Bank must place those funds, as well as all the resources of the National Bank, into other banks that have a negative interest rate. So, then we go back, you say - rock. The deadline hasn't changed. It occurs when a negative interest rate takes place and it tells you in the law and nothing changes, lasts for a period of negative interest rates. You have a negative interest rate moment to the end of the negative interest rate, which is the exception, it's never happened before in history. As for the amount of funds used and changed, we in the primary law never said the amount of funds, but we left the possibility to the National Bank, or the Deposit Insurance Agency, that one part, in fact, could be foreign funds, not to say how much, we didn't say 100%, 50%, so we changed by amendment to 25, but we said that some of the foreign funds from the Insurance Fund could be placed through the National Bank. We in the Committee felt that we had to keep the liquidity and that it was better to define that the maximum amount of the plasma is 25% and that there were no amendments, who says there would be more than 15, 20, 100%? It's just that there's no possibility left. We in terms of preserving liquidity just more precisely define things. I wouldn't have been so easy to engage with the Committee on Budgets and its amendments. Still, there are people who may understand a little bit better, and I wouldn't want to be pretentious, from other councilmen, because they're in the economy by vocality. There is Minister Vujovic, there are people who are also from your party on the committee. We had no votes that told us that these amendments proposed by the Budget Committee were not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16754	The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16755	Mr. Minister, we have different definitions about what's important and what's meaningless. If the bill, which the National Bank has given its opinion, determines that there is a deadline, and then you delete it by amendment, it is a significant change to me. If the bill does not determine a quarter, and you amend it, it is a very significant change, as my fellow MP Vladimir Djuric would say, it is as if we have two thousand euros in the family to fly, so on the day before the trip, we do not have 500. To make it perfectly clear what I have remarked, far from having any kind of objection, to the right of the board or any MP to submit any amendment, but I have an objection to you saying with ease – a professional, perfect bill, which has been radically amended by amendments, and may it be changed, the law of the Finance Committee, as well as the right of the MPs who comment on telling me that I or someone else who is not in the Finance Committee do not know what it is about. Wrong perception. (Goran Kovacevic: You understand less. What do you say, buddy? They know more than I do, is that what you're saying? I prefer it when someone knows how much I know or don't know. That's very handsome. So it's all legitimate and legal, but it's not legitimate and legal to tell us on behalf of the government that it doesn't happen when it happens to all of us in front of our eyes. I understood what you told me. And when you listen between the lines, which I don't do at all, very rarely at all, but you've just produced this now to read between the lines, come on, no matter what they say, we have a few sentences to keep repeating them, just to pass the debate. That's not how you do it. I don't do it that way and I'm sensitive to my ears when I hear other ministers do it. That's what MPs can do, their right, yours isn't. So what will MPs say to each other or to you, their constitutional right, but if I ask you which of the solutions that are now valid or what was proposed, the National Bank has an opinion, then there is no Government of Space to tell me – it is a minimal change, simply, you have no space. Do I support the law or not, do I know more or not from fellow MPs who thinks that only members of the Finance Committee can discuss it, in doing so, the Minister of Vujovic is assembling in a member of the Finance Committee which is a disgrace and a shame, since he is a member of the Finance Committee can't possibly be at all, but good is your will, I don't mind, it is important that you as a Government tell us why it is a meaningless change on a quarter of the funding and lifting of the deadline? If it's insignificant, why did you bring it? If it is not insignificant, did the National Bank of Serbia give that opinion? If the National Bank has given this content of the amendment, why has the National Bank not consulted on the basic proposal for amendments and additions? This is the subject of discussion of this law because the lack of all answers will produce negative consequences in the application of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16756	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djuric, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16757	Thank you. I thank the previous speaker for quoting my metaphor, but now just to round up the story to explain to another citizen what it was about. The Deposit Insurance Agency shall have the foreign and dinar assets contained in the Deposit Insurance Fund in banks and the Investment Protection Fund. The proposed amendment of the law provides that both funds can be invested in foreign debt securities issued by the Republic of Serbia. The originally proposed amendment of the law to the amount of foreign exchange assets to be invested in this way is not subject to any restriction. It writes – The Agency may also invest in foreign debt securities issued by the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank of Serbia as long as these circumstances last. This has been deleted "as long as these circumstances last". It's thought of the circumstances of negative interest rates. In the debate, Minister Vujovic said in principle that he believes it is pleonasm since investment in these charters is predicted under the circumstances of negative interest rates, so there is no need to write "until these circumstances last". However, this amendment is now drastically changing the Fund's investment policy, i.e. the Deposit Insurance Agency. So instead of investing in foreign exchange funds in the republican foreign exchange charters of value, without any quantitative restrictions, suddenly we have an amendment coming over the weekend where the amount is reduced by three quarters. So, the promoter stepped four steps forward, turning three steps back, and all of this is about a measure that, from the proposal's explanation, we realize that it is at least a year late, because these circumstances of negative interest rates take quite a long time, and all of this is an emergency procedure with simple, drastic changes over the weekend. Now, in the end, you cannot challenge the right of the MPs to have their doubts as to why all this is happening and what was in fact the intention of these proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16758	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Kovacevic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16759	It is a great pleasure in the congregation, and it looks even better when some MPs find it helpful not to understand what I'm saying, and I don't mean the last MP. When you're in a useful version of not understanding, then we come to that conclusion. I can agree with your previous exposure and we agree more or less, but the problem is one thing. The bill says nowhere that the National Bank should place 100% of the foreign currency. It's just the difference between me and your law reading. I can't see anywhere, nor does it say that the National Bank should place 100% of the foreign exchange funds to the Deposit Insurance Agency. Maybe it could have been, maybe it was supposed to be in perception, but it definitely wasn't in the bill. The Committee on Budgets, analysing, considering the financial situation, on the financial resources being placed, says it would be better if we had a 25 per cent limit. We may never use it, we may never be able to place funds, but let's do that if we're making a bill, which is for a short period of time, while negative interest rates last, that we also have this liquidity protection mechanism, precisely to get our attention. Your suggestion that these funds should be used to cover foreign exchange obligations that the National Bank of Serbia or anything else. A completely clean, correct law that says – there is a time limit, the maximum amount of liquid assets that will be there, only different understanding, reading. We don't think the basic text says 100% of the funds, you say that's how you figure it out, it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16760	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djuric, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16761	So when it comes to depositing and investing funds, the risk management rule is very simple, it was also known by our grandmothers who spoke – when you come back from the market don't wear all the eggs in the same bag. It's nothing to argue with. I didn't say the law required the Agency to invest 100% of its foreign currency, but it allowed it, because it did not impose any restrictions. I ask – what happened over the weekend that suddenly the ability to invest 100% of the funds turns into a provision that regulates that it cannot be more than 25?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16762	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16763	I don't want to talk about these eggs and baskets right now, but I'd say that all of this we've heard for a little while also shows the clarity of our amendment, that is to say that even the proposer of the fluctuations between whether the matter is urgent, urgent or not is so urgent and urgent. So, when this material was referred to in the Assembly, and I repeat, on 12 May of this year and when it was put on the agenda and panic that was created, even the ruling majority couldn't get together, so the beginning of the session was 40 minutes late, so it was terribly important, and then we say, if it's so important, let's apply what we did last week when we voted on the Law on Judges, so to take effect the day after, as fellow Djurisic here suggested. When it was so urgent, so it was 24 hours, why isn't it so urgent now to adopt our proposal? If it's urgent, and it was urgent, because we saw that it had given up, the finance minister suggested that we don't go to a public hearing... You see, this public debate is sometimes a complicated thing, but sometimes a public debate allows some of these concerns, which we see now, to be avoided, so there would be no need to intervene quickly over the weekend, and to change the provisions of the law. I repeat, it is not easy, given some MPs or some colleagues from the ruling majority, we will support the intensities of these two laws, but we cannot support those laws concerning debt, because we believe that this additional borrowing of the country is independent of how well explained it is. I think it's inconclusive and that it would be better for the government and I suggest that we think about it a little bit, think about it, not that we're going so unoccupied, and it's being erased, and it's being added, and it can do anything, so it can only go to a quarter. As if the government itself is afraid of the possibility of being able to dispose of these means, fearing abuse and in some way controlling itself with this additional amendment, counterpart Tomic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16764	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16765	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I may have voted in favour of this amendment, but after the arguments I've heard, I can't support this amendment. In the explanation we heard about the quorum. The quorum is made up of all MPs, not just MPs of certain parliamentary groups. As I recall, he rarely participates in the quorum. Maybe I'd support it if it wasn't for those payments from the lottery. I might as well support the promoter, but given the explanation and since he said in the morning that I was talking about what I said about Luttria being lost, I can't support this amendment, and I've brought evidence that after such payments to various Luttria analysts, it was in the loss of 140 million 437 thousand dinars. So this is proof, and Mr. Amendment Proposer was saying that I was banging when I gave the information that he and Lutri would ruin and ruin the anvil, so I can't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16766	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16767	Look, this is exactly the manner I was talking about. I'm trying to speak constructively, arguedly, and we're getting this type of qualification, as it was just now with a colleague, Radulovic. It's simple, in fact, I have to tell you, every time my esteemed speaker, who, by the way, my colleagues turn their backs on, not for no reason when he's saying it, is most damaging to the promoter himself, or the government itself, the ruling coalition. Since I care about it, that this institution still works, that's why we're trying to be constructive. So all the data is completely made up, the one was in debt, look at what years. Yes, what year, Mr. Risticevic? On the other hand, it's not a topic, I'm talking very specifically about the law, very concrete solutions, I'm trying to fix them. I respect what the government wanted. I appreciate that part of the funds, so that we don't pay the interest, or the money we own, because the interest is zero and negative, then we try to respect our country, through our securities of value. That's a positive measure, that's what I'm trying to suggest, and to support, despite what some representatives of the ruling coalition, who are obviously afraid of constructive debates, because they don't know what to do with it and they don't know what to do if this conflict and the war atmosphere in the Assembly were lost, they don't know what to do. So, we support, we just wonder why the hour is urgent, and the hour isn't urgent, it's my dilemma and my question for our promoter. Is it urgent or not urgent? If it is urgent, let it enter into force immediately, as did the Law on Judges. Thank you. (Marian Risticevic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16768	You don't have a colleague, Rističević, right on the line, you can only do the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16769	By amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when someone says that the lottery wasn't lost, then they say it was a loss, so look at the year. So he's already admitted to misleading this congregation. Also, when someone can't convince, he's trying to insult and demean his colleague, just like he tried with me. He also said that we only support your party, and here is the election list of May 6, 2012, number two is just the previous speaker. Who's telling the truth here? If he wanted the truth to be banned, and I said he didn't ask for the truth to be banned, and if he hadn't asked to forbid telling the truth about the National Assembly, I would vote for this amendment, I can't do this. Thank you. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16770	You have no right to a replica. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16771	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope Minister Antic hears, there's the minister, I'm glad. For Serbian citizens who are finding it harder and harder to live, whose salaries have been cut by this government, whose pensions have been reduced by this government, the specific issue, we owe ourselves 45m euros, plus 15m euros, the other day we owed 185m euros, that's all in a week.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16772	My friend Milojcic, it hasn't come to the agenda yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16773	Of course, that's all in a week. In a week, we're in charge of over 200 million euros. Why are we in charge when the government says we have a surplus in the budget? The specific question is, if you have enough sugar at home, you won't go to your neighbor's house to borrow a cup of coffee to cook, or to buy it at the store.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16774	A fellow Milojitsu...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16775	Why are we in charge? It's a specific question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16776	It's not that law on the agenda. You can't do what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16777	And what did the previous speaker say? Be objective to everyone. I have a question for the minister, a specific question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16778	Save your strength when we open a debate under that law. According to the amendment, MP Djordje Vukadinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16779	As I said, Mr Antic, determine whether or not she cares, whether it is urgent or not, if it is urgent to adopt our amendment, if it is not urgent why you pushed without a public debate, so we have now entered into these problems that you must intervene, or through amendments of the MPs. That's the point. As far as all of this is concerned, I think the public can see, and I'm a little sorry when I see some constructive proposals coming from the ruling coalition, and someone thinks they're going to disabling the opposition by making certain representatives of their own, you simply know who's in charge of whom, who's in charge of Mr. Zivkovic, who's in charge of me, who's in charge of some other opposition colleagues, it doesn't help. So that doesn't help, gentlemen, and it won't help you. You need to define yourself sooner or later, if you want a constructive debate here in Parliament, then we listen, we respect the arguments when you like them, they don't like them. If you're going to fight, take out photos and files, semi-mounted materials and stuff, then there's no idea, no quality work, and the citizens will judge you individually. As it is wrong for every argument that comes from this side to meet with how many of their presidential candidates have percentages. We've heard this countless times, mostly I've kept my mouth shut, I haven't advertised the Rules of Procedure or anything else, but often colleagues from the ruling majority seem to have no other argument, but they say how many votes you've won and how many votes your president won. As much as he's won, one vote that we're alone is true, two and two is four, regardless of whether someone who has 0% or someone who says they have 55 or 60%. Here we're talking about, some basic facts, debt growing, debt growing up to a year ago, and it can't be denied. Some things have been done well, I am prepared to commend them, as I said, despite the fact that some colleagues from the ruling majority all seem to create some kind of war atmosphere here, and then greatly resent when the opposition reacts in a similar way. You warned Mr. Milojičić about what he was saying, and before that you suffer and tolerate these discussions that do not have a slight relationship, but literally have nothing to do with the subject, but serve only for, I don't know what, some satisfaction of vanity and collecting political points. You're simply not fair, and what's worse, even today, when you're trying to be the most constructive, whether because of the President's birthday or for some other reason, even today apply double standards to the representatives of the government and the opposition. It can't come out well. Thank you, sir. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16780	You have no right, Mr. Zivkovic, he just mentioned your name. More colleagues came to me. It is true that I let my colleague Rističević speak beyond the subject of the agenda, so much of Mr Milojic, so much of you from now on. (Radoslav Milojic: And me never.) You're completely even. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16781	I really don't know who's in charge here, nor do I follow it, nor do I understand it until the end, but as someone who's been in several terms here an MP, I think I understand the spirit of parliamentaryism well. We had a debate about this legal project in principle. In this debate, the honourable MPs, regardless of whether they come from the government or the opposition, expressed some of their thoughts and attitudes on the subject of this law. In his final consideration, my distinguished colleague, Dr Vujovic, found that we had a good debate, thanked the MPs for a good debate and found out that he heard a lot of what quality could affect the legal solution itself. I don't understand these questions today why you accepted the amendment. We accepted the amendments because they were given by the MPs, and because they improve the text of this legislative project, nor with the desire to experience anything in any way wrong. People's MPs submit amendments, if we, as Government, estimate that some of these amendments have had a qualitative impact on the legal solution, we accept it, whether it comes from a committee or from any individual MP. There's no room for conspiracy theory. Since I'm about to leave, I've got a colleague named Milojičić to answer. First of all, we are not in debt, but we are giving guarantees for credit lines that will bring back "Electro-price of Serbia" and "Electro-Networks of Serbia". Why are we going to issue these guarantees, we talked in principle. Because under these conditions, when we give a state guarantee, the terms of the KfW bank are far more favourable. Why are EPS and ESMs taking these loans? Well, simply, it's the most normal thing, no one from their fleet cash pays the investments if they have the right credit lines and that's absolutely logical. So it has nothing to do with sugar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16782	Two minutes. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16783	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we are on the last amendment from the amendment and the addition of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, which says, the promoter, that the law should take effect on the eighth day, instead of changing, to be the next day. And one basic question arises in its reasoning - is it haste or is it not a hasty to pass laws like this or is it not a rush to pass laws like this, so even comparison with amendments and additions to the Law on Judges is being carried out? Serbia's citizens must say, amendments and additions to the law with judges have been in a package with the election of new judges, the election of prosecutors, and they are tied to certain deadlines and mandates and have therefore had to go together, as of the next day when elections for certain judges ran. It is a matter of amending and supplementing the finance law, which could not have had a public debate, because then they would come in turn only, probably, in August or September. So, therefore, it was better now to do this change and supplement, to put in place a certain amount of funds that the state will be incomeming with, rather than actually allowing these funds to experience a certain negative interest rate and that we from the budget have to cover certain minuses. So that's one thing. On the other hand, in the principle of debate, several opposition parties insisted that certain funds be limited to trade in state securities. So at that session, the minister himself wanted to make one concession and meet such demands, and he simply made a proposal at the end of the session himself, and there is no other possibility of an amendment being adopted, unless the amendment of the committee, made a proposal and said, "Come out this way to certain colleagues and adopt such an amendment." So this is why Mr. Antic was at the board meeting today as a representative of the government and such an amendment has been accepted. So there's no reason why we're talking about that the amendment of the committee is not in a certain way, or it's destroying the concept of the law itself, and we're now on the amendment that I'm talking about, that it should come in the eighth day after the publication and that this amendment to come in the next day is not under the obligation to be like that. Some time it's the eighth day, some time it's the next day. Probably if it was the next day, you'd say – and now that it's so fast, you're probably in a hurry, probably behind the law now. No, this is how things are put here on the eighth day, and we don't see the problem at all, and I think that's the only reason the government didn't accept this amendment. So I believe that this amendment is why it is not accepted and there is no anger in all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16784	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16785	It's just a matter of time before the law goes into effect. The fact that there are no clear criteria, as the previous colleague used to say, sometimes comes eight days after the adoption, or publication in “The Official Messenger, ” and sometimes the next day. And what we're saying here all the time is that there's no clear criteria that are the reasons. They must be pointed out correctly. You can't in one sentence because of the need for the law to come into effect urgently so as not to have the negative consequences of the point. Without saying what a negative consequence that is. Without stating why the Constitution is violated when the law enters into force the next day. Well, when you talk about the law on judges, it's not because of the adoption of some other decisions, but because Judge Novici Petkovic, the day the law came into force, the term of office under the previous law, and that the law came into force after eight days, according to the Constitution, would stop him from acting as judge and president of the court, but you should have rewarded him. Then when it comes to some News or Perica or I don't know who, then – the next day, and when there's no News, Perice, then you say – eight days and that's the problem, that there are no clear criteria, what you do according to your own free intentions, and that's why we are against such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16786	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16787	I'm not going to discuss at all whether it takes one day or eight days in this case, but because of what was heard earlier when someone here said, and said something should be read, which does not, for example, read this Constitution that mentions, and what does not read, say, this Constitution that says it will be broken, imagine, if something is not eight but a day etc. Does this constitution predict that it can be done before? Foreknowledge, in which member one would know who was asking if he was reading, and what was the criterion and what measured whether or not he was, then the opinion of the National Assembly. A man may not know what, can or may not read what, but sit in the National Assembly without knowing that we are pleading on whether or not there is a basis for early entry into force, it is the ultimate insolence, in addition to ignorance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16788	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16789	Dear Chairman, I believe you have violated the Rules of Procedure in article 107 of the National Assembly's dignity. This was about whether the MPs know something or don't know something, whether they read it or not, and I didn't insult anyone in my presentation by saying what he knows or doesn't know, because it's not a topic and it's not how I think discussions should be conducted. I spoke very clearly about the existence of clear criteria when making some decisions. That the congregation can make decisions, we've seen that before. The only criteria for making decisions in this assembly, I unfortunately have to find out, is the bell. If there's a bell, there's a vote for it. If there's no bell, you don't vote or vote against. I ask you not to allow MPs to insult other MPs, to say that I don't know something or that I haven't read. There's a lot of things I don't know. Thank God I don't think I'm the smartest, the only one who knows everything, as the Prime Minister and his fans think, but I'm willing to discuss everything and whether there are reasonable reasons for the law to come into force within eight days, as the Constitution says. I want to hear the argument in that debate, and I don't want to hear the bells.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16790	Mr. Djurisic, I don't think he's a broken member of 107. The Rules of Procedure because you even said at one point that the National Assembly was in violation of the Constitution. I suppose you expect one of the MPs who doesn't think like you to say something about it. I let you give your full opinion on the amendment to Article 2. You took it out, your colleague stood up to you. Marko Djurisic: He said I don't know. He knows very well that you do. That's the problem. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16791	Rule 103, and it'll be as short as it deserves to be. Just a recommendation, I say straight ahead, Mr. Chairman, absolutely not asking to vote but to think about the subject. If there's a parliamentary group here in the one that has been advertised by the Rules of Procedure, maybe there is, maybe there isn't, I don't know, it's hard to send it away these days, and if there's some time left for further discussion, I suggest that in accordance with what we're predicting attitude 8. we take two minutes for obvious abuse. This was a pure replica just now, completely unnecessary. So someone reacts to their own words, not mine, and I think it was obvious, and I think that these things should be sanctioned so much before they're used not only for abuse of the Rules of Procedure but for further giving the grounds for us being here over the Rules of Procedure and the rules of our home, which we have, we're worried about. For dignity, among other things, when you mention that bell and it's primarily my note to everyone here. It's not our fault that some people keep hearing it. I am convinced that after what happened in 2012 Boris Tadic is ringing in his ears until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16792	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the granting of a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the benefit of the German Development Bank KFW FRANKFURT on May, following the borrowing of the Public Enterprise ELECTROPRED OF SERBIA BELGRAD (STARNISATION OF THE MODERATION SYSTEM FOR THE OBLIGATION AND NIKOLA TESLA A) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Vjerica Rade, Zoran Krasić, Milorad Mirčić, Nemanja Sarović, Natasa Jovanović, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Đurić, Marijan Rističić, Marko Đurišić, Miroslav, Miroslav Aleksandić, Goran Bogdanović, Nenadvantanović and Zdko Stanković. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Djuric. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16793	Thank you very much. I'm using those five minutes. These are laws to which the state assumes its obligations without need. The amendments that counterpart Tepic and I have made are aimed at showing the Serbian public that this is absolutely unnecessary. Why? Because in this law and the following, in this law at 45 and 15 million states, it assumes that credit obligations, allegedly favourable for some ECS or ESM jobs, and the amount of these loans is dramatically, dramatically and dramatically three times smaller. Three times I speak dramatically smaller, several hundred times compared to the economic potential of these two economic operators. We've had praises in the last few months, and before that EPS has been doing phenomenal work. We have heard from several sources, very unverified and so far lying, but it has happened again from the top of the government that there are 400m euros per day on the EPS account, 500m euros, that it is a firm that is liquid to the pain, that it is the perfect state. Then why does the EPS take, since this law is now on the agenda, why is it taking credit from this German bank and why does the state have to guarantee it? The predecessor of your Madam Minister, who was sitting here earlier, said it was clear to everyone that when someone can take a favourable loan, they don't finance certain things from their own potential. Where's that? That's total nonsense. If one family has enough money to buy a vacuum cleaner, of course they'll buy it for cash because it's more favourable than taking credit. It's clear to everyone. There's no need. Of course, there are jobs that are not profitable, which have to be done in economic operators that are not as successful as they claim to be here for the EPS, and then loans are necessary. Especially where these investments don't contribute to a new profit, by developing that company. Here, if on the account every day, as the Prime Minister and anyone else here say, there are 500 million euros, why would he take a loan of 45 million? It's completely pointless. Why does it have to be taken by the bank? Because of the favourable loans? Don't talk. Any country still stable can take a loan that's under 1% gross and there's no doubt about it. Any bank. At the Commercial Bank, at another Serbian bank, in Serbian banks whose founders are foreigners or anywhere. In 2003, when the Serbian government then took credit for the purchase of Italian part of Telekom, which was sold in the 1990s, interest was slightly over 0.5%. So, I guess it's more stable now. If it isn't, then it's not such a perfect condition and let's see why we have to take credit. Let me tell you what's being said about EPS. It is said that there are 36,000 workers, which is true, that annual production is about 35 billion kilowatts of electricity. The Czech company Ches, which deals with the same business, produces 60 billion kilowatt hours annually, almost twice as many and has 26,000 employees. If we compare these parallel criteria, that means that the EPS should have less than 13,000 employees, not 36,000. It's definitely at least one third now is an extra one. What's done to get rid of something? By the way, since there are at least 30% more employees than the highest standard there is to be, it's a company with the highest salaries in this country. The average net salary is 76,000 dinars in that company. So that's 120,000 dinars of gross wages. It means that almost 1,000 euros is a gross salary. It means that the monthly payment fund is 36m euros in the company. That means that from one salary they can finance all these jobs, a little bit over it. Let's not count the material costs that go beyond that. Let me remind you that we are one of the few, if not the only state in this part of the world that has electricity excise. We have an excise on cigarettes, alcohol, probably some perfumes, but I'm not sure about that, maybe for some luxurious things, but not for something that's the necessity of the 21st century, which is electricity. No, they've got those excises here too. Otherwise, to inform the Serbian public, the excise charge brings 140m euros annually to the EPS for zero consumption, without any investment. So out of a quarter of the excise duty taken by Serbian citizens, EPS can finance all of this, excuse me, a little bit more than one-third. The non-payment of claims in the EPS is over 15%. It's not the result of what some people say as a lie that some irresponsible people in the '90s, like me, have been calling for not paying for electricity, which is completely incorrect, but because they're being forgiven by electricity. With large successful companies in Serbia such as Željzara Smederevo, I think a foreign investor, RTB Bor, a Serbian glass factory Paracin, where we had some investor from Bulgaria's red Interpol BOLO. Why aren't these things charged? We have a net loss in the EPS over 25%, which is 30% more than anyone in our environment. Isn't there some condition for this to be reduced so that these funds can finance all of this? No, it's just here -- there's a German bank, if it's a German bank we all have to say hello and it's the best thing in the world and the state has to take responsibility for that debt again. Whether or not the EPS is gonna get that back, I don't want to get into that story at all. There's no need for us to spend our time today discussing this issue, or for the EPS to be in charge of any foreign bank, or for the state to guarantee it. I'm not talking about EMS. The EMS is a space shuttle, the best man can drive, let alone someone who understands something like that. Therefore, I call on you to withdraw this law, that the necessary work in the EPS and the EMS will be completed from our potential, whether it is the potential of these businesses themselves, whether these are the potentials of the domestic banks that they will give you, and I have asked myself, as well as the good terms of credit without the guarantee of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16794	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16795	In the principle of debate, neither the ministers nor the MPs who have declared that they will support this bill's proposal, the radicals have not convinced us that this law makes any sense at all. Ministers especially tried to sort of explain this law under some big secret, it was obvious that it wanted to hide some facts from the public. We will, we said it on Friday and today we will continue through the amendments, right to the public to draw attention to what these laws really mean. Article 1 The bill's proposal and the public should know that, means a new 45m-euro debt. When we talked about it in principle, then the minister explained to us that it wasn't a debt, it's a guarantee for some 45 million we might take, and maybe we won't take, depending on whether we need it. But what the public also needs to know is that, take or not take these funds, the state of Serbia must pay interest for it. We are, among other things, against the adoption of this and this law. On the other hand, this law, we have written it in the light of this article, Serbia's public debt is 69.2% of GDP participation, and this exceeds 50% of the budget system bill, and the Government is not accepting this amendment as a reason why Article 1 does not contradict any law. Here, we say it is and we wrote it. We also said that it is not possible to pass laws in this way, because you yourself said in reason that the government signed a guarantee by 23 February 2017 for this amount of funding with this German Development Bank. I am now asking you - what would happen to this government guarantee and that signature, that by some case, let's say, not to adopt this law, that something has changed from February to today and that the law is not passed? Then what would happen to that already signed guarantee? Who would be responsible for signing some kind of 45m-euro debt? Furthermore, the question we did not get an answer to, and we asked Minister Vujovic, also refers to this member first, and to the whole law, we asked to be shown this contract. This contract, which has already been signed, should have been an integral part of the reasoning of the bill. Because we in the SRS are very interested in who was the mediator for the conclusion of this contract? This is what we are interested in because about half a billion euros have been given to mediate, in particular 470,000 euros to mediate with this German Development Bank. On the other hand, very often Aleksandar Vukic, and other members of the government, boasts in the media some friendly relations with Angela Merkel, friendly relations with Germany. He even got carried away once, and he said that Germany is a traditional friend to Serbia, and he just said that at the time of his anniversary in the Forests. If that's true, then why our government, and the Assembly will probably adopt it tomorrow, then why are we making the German Development Bank, why isn't the German state helping us? So this has nothing to do with the public, too, this new responsibility has absolutely nothing to do with any economic, economic, and I don't know what kind of relationship between Germany and Serbia. This is a pretty weird relationship and pretty much undercover, which I've already said. Indeed, Minister Brnabic can't possibly answer this question, especially he can't show us that contract, but we asked Vujovic, and it would be good if he were here today, perhaps in this debate in particular we could sort things out a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16796	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16797	Thank you. The basis of the replica is the mention of the party president and there were questions, right? As far as Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany's relations are concerned, I think it is absolutely unfounded that we are here again to those who are simply not interested in it, and if they were, we would find out very easily, we explain the level of co-operation between the two countries, how important it is for Serbia and how busy it is, for example, the number of people in this country is, thanks to exactly the investments we get, how much political support we are, and why in Serbia they are, but frankly, they are important those European integrations that someone here is in every opportunity he gets, and the question is just how sincere. We'll get back to that at the very end. The question is, is it a duty or is it not an assignment? No, because it's about giving some guarantees. Has anyone come out to Serbia to meet? Once again, completely meaningless, let's go find a better condition than 0.8% of interest per year. Let someone explain, let them prove in any way that it is not favourable and that it is not a good arrangement for this country. If this is due to good co-operation, good communication and mutual respect between Serbia and the most important European country today, then what is there to make it unclear? Of course, this is once again an opportunity for a little more stories in the system – let's use the time, but how truly honest it is and how realistic it is I will judge on the basis of who it comes from. In this particular case, I appreciate when it comes from those who are ready for absolutely anything and any political attitude if it's a matter of some immediate assessment, I, for that, excuse me, but I don't care too much. When Europe, European integration and anything about it is criticised by someone who is able to loudly applaud the highest party body on a sentence – we will be an equal member of the EU, and after that tells everything they say, I appreciate that it is a pure story doing. As serious as this is, so much and everything else we hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16798	The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16799	It wasn't clear who this last part of his colleague was referring to. I cannot believe it refers to the SRS, since we have never applauded the EU. Of course, I won't talk about how to communicate with MPs, whether anyone understands or doesn't understand, how offensive it is, etc., never mind, let him speak the way he thinks he should. But we didn't get an answer here, and we didn't ask for an answer from the MPs, because the MPs don't know that. The MPs vote at the bell, the MPs vote when the bell rings, so they don't know what the essence is and they can't answer our question. So someone can't say this isn't a new borrowing. Gentlemen, it is. You can't say that this 45 million doesn't pay interest. Interest is paid even if we don't use those funds. No one can say there is no middleman and half a billion euros have been paid for the mediation. It's facts you can't escape from. If this is showing the love and friendship of the German state towards Serbia, then thank you, this kind of love costs us a lot. We Serbian radicals absolutely oppose it. We wouldn't mind some normal, equal co-operation with Germany and any state, but that someone treats us this way and that we consider it a friendly gesture, thank you, we won't. Who thinks it is friendship, let it continue to rot. Just to remind the public too that you from the SNS almost owed Serbia as much as you are in power. There's no need to make such faces, you know big economics, because that's a fact. Your claim that you are taking more favourable loans to balance those taken under more unfavourable conditions is the fact that they used to take more unfavourable loans before you, but one completely lay issue is raised – if you took credit to repay another loan, how is it possible that public debt is increased? Well, at least it has to stay on the same, down by that interest, if it hasn't already been cut. We all know we can add up two plus two. These demagogue stories that you convince citizens to leave to someone else, we Serbian radicals know perfectly what you are doing in this way and how much we will and how we will repay the debts and those before you and your gods.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16800	The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16801	I'd like an amendment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16802	Here's to the amendment, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16803	So it's because it's two minutes I don't want to replicate, but to discuss really some facts that don't stand in these discussions that we've heard so far with the amendments. Otherwise, I'm probably one of the few MPs who doesn't understand why we're putting amendments to the bill when it comes to agreements. For the simple reason it represents one violation of the Rules of Procedure, but since it is a loan law, then somewhere it has its legal foothold, and since I'm not a lawyer, let me then and perhaps I'm wrong. We've opened up a political issue and a business question. The political issue is at all a matter of co-operation with the Republic of Germany and it is perfectly legitimate that certain political parties have their say that they are against European integration and are against countries that are highly developed and that want Serbia to simply co-operate with them in this area, i.e. in the area of European integration. One of the most developed is, of course, Germany. What we need to say is that when we talk at all about cooperation between Germany and Serbia, firstly, politics has neither love nor will be, and when we talk about Germany, and when we talk about America, Russia, China, but simply there is always a certain kind of interest. But according to Serbia and Germany's co-operation now, the figures speak. So, over 30,000 employees in Serbia are working in companies that came from Germany and opened their own companies here. So over 30,000 Serbian citizens are employed in these companies. Over 370 companies work in the Republic of Serbia and total transport of goods and services is measured at an annual level of more than 2.5 billion annually, now exceeding 3.5 billion euros. Therefore, co-operation between Serbia and Germany exists. What's good is that in this cooperation we need to learn what every country is best at, and Germany is the best in the field of energy and environmental protection. When we're talking about these projects at all, these projects are about to start years ago when it comes to technical documentation, because the goal is that we are primarily moving and doing a practical reduction in pollution because of ourselves, because the costs for people who are sick, as a consequence of the ash and wind that inflicts large amounts of ash, especially in the areas of thermal power plants. Because large funds from Serbia's budget are being allocated for human treatment precisely because of the consequences of water, air and land pollution, therefore the introduction of European standards, when it comes to environmental protection at all, and especially in the field of energy, because we know that energy is one of the largest sectors and major pollutants, it was therefore important that a project called the modernisation of the system for moving "Thermo Power Plant Nikola Tesla A" simply works with the help of the state bank KfW Bank of Germany, which at its interest rates really shows one level of partnership co-operation. I will remind you only what the terms of the loan are – 45m euros, so we are taking credit, and the other 10m will be invested as the Republic of Serbia. We don't have the means to do it ourselves, and more and more make us, not just European integration, but ultimately urbanisation of large cities, then I'm the way life works makes us simply have to set high standards in the field of environmental protection. A loan of 45 million which is available for five years, which has a period of maturity of 12 years, which is paid back in 14 wars, which in the last war of 2028 is due to return, shows a real hand given by the Republic of Germany that gives us the opportunity to actually enter together one of the best projects in terms of solving the transport of ash, slags and plasters and depositing them according to certain highest standards in the introduction of hydraulic transport with the help of certain mixtures that are involved in water and ash. So, in such a way of functioning and new projects, the introduction into the EPS functioning system simply drives our public enterprises such as EPS first to act according to the highest standards, then to operate the economy according to the highest standards, and thus to begin to measure how much benefits they really are from introducing standards relating to environmental protection. So, first of all, we do it for our health, for the sake of our children's health, and that's why today-to-morrow, and when we talk about entering the European Union, they're going to ask us, well, what did you do about pollution being at the lowest possible level? This is one of the first steps that we are going to address major issues of pollution by the energy sector. I think this is the way to talk at all about these projects of this type that we don't need, that we don't need this borrowing to show that we don't even understand the problem we have when it comes to thermal power plants. I'll tell you that the Republic of Germany has 35 thermal power plants, only 10 of which works. Why? Because these 10 have to work according to the highest standards of environmental protection. That is why it is possible for you to open up a great perspective to renewable energy sources to use them as much as possible. Serbia has 21.2% of energy from renewable energy sources because it has one set of hydropower plants, but the thermal power plants are still one big support for the energy sector. If you ask European integrations, if you ask the future that awaits us at all, the idea is that thermoelectrics should no longer work at all, because they simply represent these bad black technologies. If you want to exploit coal, you have to set high standards. This is one way. So you're investing in the future. This is all coming back through the budget items related to health care, related to the social community at all to progress in terms of not only energy, but also environmental protection. That is why I believe that such promoters who have even given this kind of amendment that these projects are not being deleted at the point of view of Serbia's progress and therefore should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16804	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16805	Thank you. Of course, such projects are needed by the EPS. This is, of course, a project that introduces new technologies in the EPS that contribute to environmental protection and reduce the adverse effects on the environment and on the health of citizens. Of course the funding conditions are also favourable. But let's not be naive. The conditions of funding are not favourable because Germany especially loves us or especially loves the current power. Maybe that's why they're good, too, but I'm sure it's not crucial. It is crucial that funding conditions are favourable because Serbian citizens, represented by this parliament, are on loan guaranteeing that if the EPS does not return that money to the state of Serbia with their tax money, it will pay back that money. Because of this type of guarantee, this loan is favourable. In 2016, 318m euros in guarantees were activated. This means that 318m euros were paid for loans to public enterprises that they could not repay. That's twice as much as pensioners are taken annually on behalf of pension cuts. About how budgeted it is, it is paid, so it can be expected that the same thing will happen this year, and around 40 billion dinars have been budgeted, as budgeted and paid last year. Here you can see the trend to activate guarantees over the past years and see the explosion in 2015 and 2016. So this is the reason why an amendment has been submitted to delete the provision that the Republic of Serbia undertakes to repay 45m euros in loans instead of the EPS, KFV from Frankfurt, not because it is an unfavourable loan for a project that is not needed. The credit is favourable, the project is needed, but we need to discuss why last year we paid 318m euros of tax money in the name of a guarantee to public enterprises that couldn't return it alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16806	The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16807	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my amendment as well as other colleagues, concerns that the proposed amendment of the law should be deleted as well as all other amendments, and as I believe that all decisions by the harmful power of Alexander Vukic should be put out of effect, especially when it comes to borrowing, because we are all aware that there is additional borrowing, regardless of what is called - a burden on the guarantees to EPS, or 45 million dinars. It's just that I have the impression that very little constructive debate here has been done. The large part of the debate, a few days back, especially this morning, was mainly about respecting the opposition majority, in a way that, for example, words were spoken as if various inconsistencies were made in the early regimes, so this is now being corrected at this point. Referring to my fellow counterpart Zoran Zivkovic's discussion, I am obliged to remind myself that radical Minister Aleksandar Vucic, in association with his colleagues then left not only the devastated country in the fall of 2000, but an absolutely mutilated state in the government of JUL and the SPS. I am also obliged to remind myself that by the end of my term of office, in October 2000 more...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16808	Comrade Tepic, would you like to talk about the amendment? I don't really see a connection to what you're talking about with this amendment. You're talking about the period when someone was born today, you'd be a minor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16809	Thank you. No matter how much we try, nothing will really wash that biography of Alexander Vukic back in the '90s, but I'm going to really look back at some of the other things that were said here. I would ask colleagues from the political majority of Alexander Vukic that they also do not manipulate what we heard right before me, which is that someone here does not want to improve environmental protection or segregation, which should be a topic or one of the focus and goal of this amendment. So, we are not against seduction and promotion of environmental protection, we are against the fact that the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia guarantee a loan, i.e. an EPS loan that can do it alone. When I say the burden on the back of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for those who are not clear to the end, and it always turns out that many are not clear, this means that these moves are owed not only by citizens who voted for this political majority, but also by those who voted against this political majority, as well as by those who did not vote at all. Therefore, all taxpayers, even citizens who may not even live in the Republic of Serbia, are additionally in debt until 2020 and 2022, respectively. Also, to question our relationship with the Federal Republic of Germany is also to banalise and simplify all that European integration involves. The political majority colleagues would have to know that because not every love for the Republic of Germany is binding by means of washing someone's biography. So it's washing its own biography, not the biography of the Republic of Serbia. She has her own history, she's written down, many of us are still witnessing that history and, of course, I say no political maneuver will wash and amnesty and abolize the state in which this country was left in 2000, and we can't get out of it irreparably ever since. I will remind, of course, that he was then left completely robbed of a pension fund, which has not been recovered to this day. I'll remind you, say, they haven't paid child support in years. In 2000, the Kingdom of Norway donated assistance to the Republic of Serbia to pay for children's allowances. It was a condition that was found in 2000. It was hard to imagine in the future, so these Messianic statements and these messianic attempts that rescuers are now in the image of Alexander Vukic and his political majority before us absolutely...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16810	I give you the reminder of my colleague Tepic. You've been warned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16811	What am I warned about?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16812	It has nothing to do with the amendment. My friend Marinkovic, you want to replace me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16813	To Article 1 of the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16814	Chairman, I have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16815	Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16816	This base is a party issue, and there are more replicas. Thank you very much. I'm not surprised, but nothing at all, that the fascination of Alexander Vukic is so strong that it has to be mentioned and tried to bend, literally any nonsense that anyone here comes up with, just because someone obviously has a strong need to build a position for himself in their new environment, "by the way" that they would say there, on that side of the hall, congratulations on that environment. I mean, first of all, to this one, the movement of free builders, Sasa Jankovic, when they don't invite someone to that party, that someone gets worried, well, wants to secure a better position in the future and then starts recommending it here in every possible and impossible way. Among other things, and a discussion like this that caused the replica. What's the harm in the agreement here? I don't think it's wise for me to talk here. Did someone find 0.8% of the annual interest here, so did they comment? It's not. That someone hadn't even read it, if he'd read it, he'd have seen it. To mention what we know about European integration, I want to respond, but I will not answer those who challenge this replica now. That's what I'm going to answer to someone who didn't embarrass the state of Serbia and the National Assembly by dealing with European integration. Speaking of biography washing, Sasha Jankovic's MPs, if they want to do biography washing, let them keep in mind, he's not worth mentioning the subject. Did he himself wash the fact that he participated as a civil servant of the government that these famous five-eyed men fought against, and now he's trying to introduce himself as a member of their echelon, he can't do that. All of Serbia knows that. It's impossible to hide. Then somehow, he's advocating the fact that he's taken advantage of every variant and subvariance of DOS structures and fooled them all. Just as he deceived those who were offered to be obedient to him in the National Assembly, so they did not get a seat in the presidency, nor in anything else, that is his “modes of operands, ” and that is, unfortunately, the fact that you, today, are going to have to live with.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16817	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16818	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16820	First, let's get some things straight. Someone tell me, which loan was recovered from the Serbian budget, which was entrusted with "Electroprivreda"? At least one. And those who draw the diagram, who don't say what these duties are, when they are created if we return them from the Republic of Serbia's budget and why? Or we should remind some that the greatest duties were for "Srbigas". Why? Because local self-government didn't pay for gas, and they charged for heating. They've divided for wages by their party satraphs. Who was in power then? The former regime. Yes, the citizens paid their bills, and now suddenly we're so worried about the situation in "Electro-prime Serbia". and then they still take it and compare "Electro-price of Serbia" with other power plants. Why don't we look at the structure of electricity production in "Electroprivred Serbia"? Or do you want fewer employees in Elektroprivred Serbia and nuclear power plants in Serbia? I'd like someone to answer that question for me. The production of electricity from raw lignite requires a large number of employees, and Vladimir Vukkovic of the Fiscal Council does not know it, and economists do not know it, but those who deal with electricity. And we produce 75% of electricity from raw lignite. It's nice to have renewable sources, but it's very expensive. Shall we talk about it? Or are we going to talk about how someone cares about a pension fund that was emptied in 1991 and 1992, and in 2008 by 2012, 400,000 people were out of work? What's that? Now the ones who shut down the factories take care of the employees. Those who fired workers take care of living standards. Alexander Vukic didn't close any factories, he opened them. Alexander Vukic didn't bring anything down, he did. Alexander Vukic didn't sell out anything, he hired people. I'd use one folk proverb, but it's against me, so I'll just say a few words - it's free to whisper and wink at someone, he doesn't see it, although it's clear to everyone that it's very visible and very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16821	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Milisav Petronijevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16822	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with fellow Members of Parliament, I would like, when it comes to this amendment, and all others relating to this law, to state the position of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group, that is to say, to ask that these amendments should not be accepted. I'll explain it the next way. Amendment to Article 1 shall be deleted. And Article 1 says that the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation to settle the obligations of the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija on the basis of its debt to the German Development Bank of 45m euros as a guarantee. Therefore, the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija is in charge of the German Development Bank for 45m euros. If we accept an amendment to delete that article, then the whole bill doesn't make sense. What does that mean? So – no guarantee is given. And what does that mean? So there's no loan. And what else does it mean -- there is no loan because the condition is that the Republic of Serbia guarantees the loan that it took "Electro-priority of Serbia". And what else does that mean? So there is no realisation of a very life- and significant project for a good part of Serbia outside of Elektroprivreda, which is the modernisation of the "Nikola Tesla A" thermal power plant. So there's none of that. We also believe that the amendment should not be accepted, and the law should be adopted for two reasons. The first reason is that this is a loan taken from the German Development Bank under very favourable financial conditions. Another reason is that such a project to modernise the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant requires large funds, somewhere around 55m euros. To be realistic, there are no major investment requirements without credit. And this loan is financially favourable, there were a lot of words about it, and I wouldn't be taking up more time on that. Serbia's Elektroprivreda itself returns the loan. The state only guarantees that she will bring him back. So all the conditions are very favourable, not to mention interest, handiwork, etc. What's more important to me here than all this? To go back to that – there are no large investment projects without credit. And this investment project – Modernisation of the "Nikola Tesla" Thermal Plant system is a very large investment project. Reliable electricity supply is a priority in Serbia's sustainable development. We respect that. But a reliable supply of electricity in accordance with the principles of environmental protection. The public needs to know, the Mining-Energy Combined, a powerful, "Colabar" and TENT, a large engagement of people, primarily employees, in extremely difficult conditions, allow Serbia to provide more than 50% of electricity, and this is the result of any praise. But the existence of a mining-energy combination "Coluber" and a Tent Obrenovac also has consequences, and the result is a degraded environment, both land and water and air. It is more than 200,000 citizens of Obrenovac municipality, Lazarec, Lajkovac, Ub, directly, without talking about those who are indirect and necessary to do this project as soon as possible. The best of these citizens know the consequences of what hasn't happened so far. That it can't be done without investment funds, without credit. To be realistic, this loan is financially favourable, it is returned by Elektroprivreda itself, and it will very much mean on the one hand to modernise the technical and technological system of Elektroprivreda, and on the other hand for a better, healthier environment of a vast number of citizens from the south-west and south of Belgrade. For these reasons, we believe that the amendment should not be adopted, i.e. that the law should be adopted and that it should be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16823	Thank you, fellow Petronijevic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16824	Thank you. Article 104(1) Mr President, the second MP has already appeared and you have not given me the right to replication, when I am called by certain amendment promoters as a manipulator and when the stories were about how to talk about environmental protection and the project itself is one big manipulation at all. The story of biography washing comes from those who urged Serbian citizens to throw bills and burn and not to settle their obligations to the state of Serbia for what is the area of energy, and now talk about how all of this should be improved and, on the other hand, go to that German embassy and tell stories about how when they come to power it will all flourish. It just won't be the same thing anymore, only they still win those elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16825	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I didn't hear it. It sounds bad. Do you want to make the Parliament's vote in the day? No, I don't. Thank you. The People's Parliament of Marinika Tepic reported. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16826	Turn me on, and I'll explain. On the same basis, because you didn't give me a straight line, even though you confirmed that you noticed me, but you gave me...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16827	You weren't in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16828	I was absolutely in the system, but you deleted the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16829	Are you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or something?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16830	No, I'm looking for a replica that you confirmed to me that I was registered, and then you kicked me out of the records. I called right away...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16831	I didn't confirm anything. Whose exhibit are you looking for a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16832	As long as my colleague Vladimir Orlic spoke right after me, replicating me, and I answered right away. Madam Secretary-General has...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16833	He didn't mention you in any negative context. Thank you very much. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16834	He absolutely mentioned me in a negative context and you know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16835	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16836	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to clarify the position of the SRS which is why we are against these two public enterprises, the two largest systems in our Republic taking loans from anyone. Gentlemen, I hold in my hand data on EPS business in 2016. We have conducted an EPS business analysis practically since 2012 with 2016. But all I'm going to do is provide data related to production and electricity invoiced for 2016. In 2016, 37.4 billion kilowatts of electricity were produced. That includes the 919 million kilowatts that were bought. However, only 27.4 billion kilowatts of electricity were invoiced. It is known that there are certain losses in these technical systems. In EU countries that have well-organised these systems, losses range from one to three percent. In our analysis, we started with losses in Serbia, technical losses, being up to five percent. If we see that in 2012, the loss was 14.5%, then in 2013, 14.84%, in 2014 18.47%, in 2015 25.3% and 2016 26.66%. If you reject what can be called a permitted technical loss, we have 21.66% of the power loss, i.e. the theft of electricity or the theft of electricity in Serbia. We have been running and running this calculation here in euro, counting on the average prices in the EU. If the loss of ten billion kilowatts of electricity, representing nearly two annual productions of Đerdapa, were translated into euro, it would amount to a billion and 460m euros. That's why we're talking about non-domestic business these two systems. How is it that if we had this non-technical loss only 9% in 2012, it stands at more than 21% last 2016? If this were noted, here, I am now using the stenographic notes of July 2, 2015, when MP Zoran Zivkovic asked a parliamentary question – who steals 18% of the power in Serbia? The issue was not given a concrete answer, but it was said that in Serbia we have 16% of those who do not pay the profession. Those who do not pay for electricity, and if it is already invoiced, some other authorities take care of it. We know that there are public enterprises, such as RTB Bor, Railways, Serbia and some other public enterprises, which have not settled their obligations, but that electricity has been invoiced to them. We're primarily interested in what's not invoiced and what's being stolen. Mr Vujovic spoke about the EPS immediately after that on 15 July 2014 and said – 600 EPS directors are on the back of the people. I quote – the management of the EPS, which makes up 600 high-paid directors, is a big problem, and the average salary in the EPS is 75 000 dinars, which is twice the average worker in Serbia. However, the minister noticed this problem of non-technical breaking, or stealing electricity, so he said – the particular problem is 18% losses and a record low charge of 84%. But these are two different things. The charge of what's been invoiced is one problem, but the huge problem is what hasn't been invoiced, and that's ten billion kilowatts of electricity for the past year. How come it gets so much bigger from year to year and who is it that protects thieves? I've got three memos here from the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and now the big problem is that Mr. Minister just left. One memo has been since 2012, the second letter has been since 2014 and the third letter has been since 2015. It is that a group of doctors from our country proposed after a 20-year study and showed a system for eliminating non-technical power loss or, let's put it briefly in Serbian, a system for eliminating theft. This system has also been experimented in America and has proved to be the best system in the world so far, which can eliminate non-technical losses. Why was America interested in this system? Because the losses in America are $5.5 billion. If it's a billion and 460 million in Serbia, it's something that's worrying. In front of Serbia there is certainly Nigeria, which has $2.5 billion in non-technical losses, but since foreign companies are there, Nigeria makes up for all the mineral raw materials it has. I hold in my hand a document from the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. I quote, she's responsible for this theft prevention system. "The system you presented to us, which was implemented at the part of the company Elektrovojvodina, has shown exceptional opportunities and as the most important option can be highlighted by the fact that it determines the real consumption of the final buyer." "Considering the importance and share of non-technical losses in distribution systems in the Republic of Serbia, which are in the jurisdiction of the JP "Electroprivreda Serbia", the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection supports the development and further implementation of the system for the elimination of non-technical losses throughout the territory, which is in the power of the PD "Electrovodina". This, gentlemen, is January 2014. To whom in the Republic of Serbia is it appropriate to steal electricity, more and more year by year? If this is a confirmation from the Ministry of Energy itself that the system that has been experimented with in Novi Sad has shown exceptional results, and that nothing has been done about the implementation of this system, not only in the area of JP “Electrovodina”, but also in all other public companies dealing with electricity distribution. It's usually said here to steal citizens. Yeah, they're stealing citizens. This system would have eliminated that, too. But since household spending is only about 14 billion kilowatt hours, the question arises -- are there others who steal electricity? Citizens can steal electricity only in systems that are 220 or 380 volts, but thefts exist at other levels, ten acidic and other electricity distribution systems. I know that Madam Minister cannot answer this question, but Mr Antic, who has received this report three times and who has confirmed the efficiency of this system, would also have to explain to the National Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia why this system has not been implemented in three years?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16837	Thank you, colleague Delic. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16838	Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, this is a debate in particular, but apparently she is burdened with the fact that during the debate in principle, Mrs. Brnabic, we did not get answers to questions that have a crucial impact on our decision under this law that you have managed to send us to the Assembly here. I say successful because of the way it was done, because it was really necessary to make a great effort, to send this law to the Assembly, and to ignore the fact that it comes under circumstances where all activities of "Electroprived Serbia" have been severely compromised. This is where we spoke with the finance minister and with the Minister of Energy. The finance minister has voiced criticism, the energy minister has gone beyond what is essential. The key question is not an interest rate of 0.8% and the justification of this project, because if we don't take that loan, then it's clear that we are asking EPS to finance it ourselves. If we're asking the EPS to finance itself, then we can't ask, on the other hand, the EPS to operate past the market. If we establish market prices that are a prerequisite for the free functioning of the EPS, then that price will not be able to pay the company. So this is the only way to solve some of the systemic problems and, of course, we should support this law if we are talking about the problems facing the citizens of Obrenovac, around Obrenovac, because this is a solution to serious environmental problems. I don't know who would live under such circumstances and whose choice that would be. These people are hostages. The fact is that the EPS did not develop according to its obligations, so it ignored one segment of its operation. What are we going to do now with what is the feature of "Electroprivrede" at this point? Here they asked the question – who is responsible for such disastrous results this year? Of course, it's not a question of meteorology and the fact that the Danube has been frozen for ten days. It's primarily the result of a ride that's been going on there too long. That something is wrong is the fact that the EPS director has been replaced, that you have no solution and the answer to problems is the fact that the EPS is still in V.D. condition. It all costs money. How much? Almost 40% of GDP growth missed 1.8, and we're on one in the quarter. Is that right? So, the ground is tightened, society is sacrificed. Because of the failure of the EPS, we do not achieve those results that we set ourselves as targets. So help us, if we have to vote for this law, for the people of Obrenovac. Give us some assurance that you will be able to solve those problems that are already unbearable. EPS doesn't have adequate management. There is a law that very precisely defines the way management is done. That law doesn't apply. EPS is in V.D. condition. The internal organisation of the EPS, which has been valid for years, has been abandoned. The new one that was established is not sustainable. The divisions of consultants have passed and left behind chaos, because among other things, what we now have ahead of us is the result of the fact that too much has been experimented with "Electroprivred Serbia". Some production rules obliged "Electro-price Serbia" to have 30 million tonnes of coal discovered in Kolubara at any moment ready for exploitation. The lower limit was always 20. We're under two now. It can't be solved overnight. So, tell me, when you get here, the EPS needs a loan because the only other way to get the means to raise the price of electricity is by demagogues of every kind, we're going to clog the mouth of the populists, but give it, on the other hand, a guarantee that people who get that kind of support from us will be able to lead that EPS the way it's supposed to be run. So that's what's the key to this debate. Of course, there is this amendment, we can talk about them, but ministers have avoided answering the key question in the debate in principle – what about this organized "Electroprivred Serbia"? January is an excuse and you know it very well, with when Vukic says it, then it's justifiable criticism, and when we talk, it's an opposition scheme. That's not true. We were all more or less the government in this country, and everyone did what they could to make "Electro-priority" work, it has to work. It is unacceptable that in 2017 we have a Javezlu which was not characteristic for the period from 2000 to 2012 when these changes occurred. Something else didn't work, but Kolubara worked, Tent worked. Today we have no such condition, and it must be removed, resolved. If it's not a topic for you, I don't know how far you're headed, of course it's much more of a responsibility of the Minister of Energy, but give a guarantee, tell us what's going to happen with "Electroprivred Serbia", so we can talk normally about the law, the way we should talk when we talk about the EPS, but this way we leave aside what's so obvious, and that's that torpedoed GDP growth, that it's exclusive responsibility in the wrong management of the EPS in the last five years, in the fact that the preparatory work has not been done, that they haven't been removed in time, that they haven't moved out, that they haven't changed river flows, it all resulted in the fact that we have two million discovered coals today that can't come into those systems that they't been designed for much larger surfaces today to manipulate. It's all big problems. All right, if we need to back up, then let's say what we support. We support a good loan with a good interest rate. The German Development Bank is a credible institution, but on the other hand there must be credibility. He's gone now. We turn our heads in front of the fact that EPS is in V.D. condition. There's no argument why that is. It's an artery of the development of this country. That there are problems, they're not even spoken of in the way they're supposed to be spoken of. It's not 2014 and the flood, something else happened. It's not designed, it's not planned the way it's supposed to be projected and planned, it's been done by the EPS. The chain of governance was abandoned, which was traditional, a new one was established, which was left somewhere in a drawer with consultants who left "Electroprivred Serbia". The responsibility for it must exist, so it's said we tried, we failed, we need support now for something we have to do. The guarantee that this time will be different is what we take as measures. Without it, I'm sorry, but we can't support the law. Not because I think it is necessary to leave Obrenovac and the people there to choke on the ashes, because I would not want anyone to live under such living circumstances, but there is no guarantee that what we now need to support will be realised in such a set and organized EPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16839	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16840	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr. Jovanovic, quite heartily, defended his views, but I must say that the government, in which he has been participating, did not leave us with such a situation in the EPS that he is talking about. I want to remind you, Mr Jovanovic, both you and all those who think in a similar way as you, that in 2011, therefore, I took out only one piece of information, "Electroprivreda Srbija" had a clear loss of 65m euros, i.e. 65 billion dinars at the time. I would like to remind you that, once again, only one in a series of data, came to the EPS from the NIS for an adviser from Boris Tadic, a certain Mrs. Slobodanko Krcedinac. It changed the systematization of jobs because the lady in question did not qualify for any job in the "Electroprived Serbia" system. I want to remind you that at that time, which you say was better than this, and now it's hard, the EPS signed a warning contract with an estrogen star, I don't know if it's appropriate to say who it is, the value of that contract is 335 thousand euros. In 2010, Mr Jovanovic spent 30m euros on the expropriation you speak of in the area of "Wreca" and the "Colubare" machines did not even enter the village. Pannonian Power Plants Director Milos Saramandic was brought to that post after the NIS direct, where he left 100m euros missing. Celebrating the EPS day, ladies and gentlemen, I'm telling you that you left us the Czech state in "Electro-priority of Serbia", not Czech, but from another country, but let's not insult that country, Srdjan Shaper and his marketing firm, paid for the EPS day of three million dinars. So, three million dinars were spent to celebrate the EPS day. In March 2012, the late Verica Banac then asked the Serbian government, led by Mirko Cvetkovic, to examine why the "Electropriority of Serbia" spent 2m euros on advertising. Furthermore, I want to inform you, and this is certainly very well known to you, that at the time, when there were 600 directors in the EPS system, you were the director of European integration, so it was called for the systematicisation of jobs in "Electroprivred Serbia". The EPS's European Integration Director was a certain Bratislav Ceperkovic, you are probably familiar with the name, which is a doctor's education without specialization. As the director of the EPS for European Integrations, you have appointed a man who, according to the profession, is a doctor without specialization, and then we wonder why "Electroprivred Serbia" was found in such a state as it was found in 2012, and by the way, Mr. Ceperkovic, in addition to being the director of the EPS for European integration. He was the chairman of the Management Board of the Public Enterprise "Trans-naphtha" and adviser to the then interior minister. Should I remind you of a gentleman named Nebojsa, he is still called when he was the Democratic Party of Nebojsa Ceran, who was appointed director of the Business Society of the Mining Base, although he is a technologist, a water chemist. According to the information we have literally, the man from every job was taking a commission. This was the situation in the EPS by 2012. What's the situation today? It's heavy. We'd like it to be much better and it has to be much better. You, Mr. Jovanovic, have mentioned more fully both in the principle debate and today some consultants, or consultants, have indeed existed, but they have gone with former director Obradovic, they are gone. Those 600 CEOs in the EPS, they're gone. There are seven directors in the EPS. Don't tell me it's not some shift in EPS restructuring after all. By 17 May 2017, 10 million tonnes of coal were produced for the first four and a half months. You don't think it's important the fact that we've had one of the coldest winters in the last 20 years and it doesn't matter that the Danube has been frozen for more than a month and a half? I think it's important, and despite all that, the EPS produced 10 million tons of coal in four and a half months, and currently there are 600 thousand tonnes in the EPS deposits. In 2016, the EPS finished its business with 100m euros in plus and currently has about five hundredm euros in its accounts. These are, however, some shifts that talk about operating better in the EPS than they were before 2012. I hope we agree on that. You, in principle debate and today in the debate on amendments, have repeatedly pointed out that the EPS, as you say, is in V.D. condition. Yes, it is. Mica Grcic is the acting director of Elektroprivreda Serbia, but what you forgot to say is that it was called and that the competition for the director of Elektroprivreda Serbia was completed, and that the Serbian government in the coming period, after the competition, would make decisions on who would be the new director of the "Electroprivreda of Serbia", and in the period until 2012, we could not even think about the competition being called for any director of the public enterprise. "Electroprivred Serbia," I would like to say, because of the citizens of Serbia, is not a public enterprise, although it is a company with a majority participation in state capital. So by 2012, you couldn't even dream of having a competition for any director of a public enterprise, or for any company director that operates with the majority participation of state capital. Only party personnel were installed. I am saying this, not because I would defend the management of the EPS, but to point out the facts, because of citizens, which clearly show that some shifts in the business of the EPS, in the way of its organisation, in the functioning of management, have nevertheless been achieved. Is that enough and are we satisfied with that? No, we're not. Is the situation better than it was in 2012? It's better for sure. Today you do not have such a fabulous sponsorship contract, today you have no loss in the EPS, today you have no fact that you, I don't think personally, but some of your colleagues from the opposition benches mocked the fact that a man who is a graduate of the "Corridor of Serbia" task force has been appointed as a man who is a graduate engineer. At the time of Boris Tadic, EPS's director for European integration was a doctor without specialisation. That was great back then, that was European, that was modern. When you set up a graduate engineer for the director of "Corridor of Serbia", then let's put this man and the Serbian government on a pillar of shame. I don't think that's good, and I think that this data that we, from the SNS, are saying that there is a shift in the EPS, as in general there is a shift in both the Serbian economy and the Serbian public finances. You are wrong when you say that we are glorifying these results, far from it, we are deeply aware that the situation in the electricity sector has to be better, we just don't want lessons about how businesses in Serbia are being taught, they are, and I don't only think about you, Mr Jovanovic, I think that you are even in one part right, when it comes to this debate, but I think about some others, those who systematically ruined almost all the public enterprises in Serbia, who systematically destroyed almost all the businesses in Serbia that are operating with the majority state capital, that they are giving us lessons today about how to manage the EPS and that they respect our situation in the Czech Republic. I'm sorry, we didn't inherit the condition that was in the Czech Republic in 2012. In the Czech Republic, no one invited people to burn electricity bills in barrels. Zoran Krasic throws. ) Okay, Mr. Krassic, you seem inspired today. Whoever gets the word today you have something to say. In the Czech Republic, no one invited citizens to do all that was done in Serbia from 2000 to 2012. I do not believe that any of the Czech companies dealing with losing someone gave sponsorship contracts of over 300,000 euros. I don't believe that in the Czech Republic, doctors were appointed as director of an electricity company. If you tell me it happened in the Czech Republic, Germany or in any EU country, great, then let it be done in Serbia as well. But it wasn't working. Serbia was an experimental station where various politicians practiced; some in the area of police, some in the field of electricity, some in the field of health, and we came to a situation that was almost unsustainable in the summer of 2012. Now the situation is a little bit better, it's not great, but it's still better than it was in 2012. I had to say this because of the citizens of Serbia, because I do not want to create the wrong impression that everything in Serbia's Elektroprivreda is bad. There are things that are bad, but there are things that are good, like there are things that we still need to fix. But I can't agree with the fact that for 12 years this system has been exposed to unprecedented robbery and corruption and that someone has a magic wand and that in five years it's all back on its feet, and we've even done a good part of it, because EPS is doing business in plus, we've got enough coal reserves, production is going on. We have a major problem of expropriation where money was given and expropriation didn't happen, that's what you forgot to say. So many EPS funds and the state of Serbia invested in the expropriation of Vreoc and surrounding settlements, the expropriation never occurred, although paid to people, paid property rights on land. This land remained theirs, did not become the ownership of the EPS, did not become the ownership of the "Colubare" and cannot be used for production purposes. So, it's a tough situation, but we're doing everything we can to make it better. This is what the current EPS leadership does, and I hope that this new one will continue, which will be appointed after the public competition has been implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16841	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Mr. Jovanovic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16842	Mr. Martinovic, as far as I'm concerned, there's no need for this kind of talk. You know how to handle it? Here comes the Minister of Energy and says – right, we have these problems and they will be solved in these terms, in this way. If someone climbed the energy ministers, from Naumov, through Popovic, Skundric, your Deputy Prime Minister, Zorana Mihajlović, to Sasa Antic, that's us, on the head. We got on their heads a lot more because of NIS, less because of EPS. It is true that the party key has always been crucial to the EPS, except, and that is where you were wrong, between 2001 and 2004. I am always ready to stand behind Slobodan Geric's work in Kolubara, Mr. Buha in TENT, Geric – the director of EPS. None of them were from my party when they were appointed to these functions, they were appointed in a transparent manner and OK were doing their job. We have a special sensitivity of interest in EPS and energy, because we have always said that because of the weakness in the plan, our country opens too much space for Russia's political influence in Serbia. The newspaper is now full of headlines on the abuse of thermal sources, the abuse of wells in Serbia, a crime that marked the mandate of Serbia's recent director of the oil industry. We pointed to all of this in 2008 when we were the only ones here to criticize the agreement that was made. Everyone else supported him. I don't mean to lecture anyone now nine years after that, but let's put it this way - we're looking for support for this loan. It's the need of people living in Obrenovac. There's no other way to finance this project or be what it's been before, so let's condemn all those who live there or solve...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16843	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16844	Give me another 30 seconds and I won't answer again. .. Or to solve this problem, or credit, or power-gathering, no one is in favour of electricity-gathering, then credit under favourable conditions, and what we see as a problem will be solved in a clear way, in which deadlines and who will solve it. That's how a serious debate is being conducted, everything else is the arm-snatching, which is full of our parliamentary life, without too much sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16845	Thank you. Replica, colleague Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I recall, Mr. Buhu brought the late Zoran Djindjic as one of the directors. Whether he was a member of the DS or not, I don't know, but I know that late Zoran Djindjic brought him in. Right? You say it was done in a transparent way. This transparent way implies that the Serbian government's solution is published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" right? And that the appointments of the Buhes and the others, which you spoke of, did not precede any public competition, correct me if I was wrong? So much has changed since you were vice president to this day. You have now said something that is actually your political platform, which is politically completely legitimate, I disagree with, but you have now fully discovered the cards. It's not the EPS leadership. You're scared by the Russians. You're afraid of Russian investments in Serbia. That scares you. That doesn't scare us. That's what we're looking forward to. We are also looking forward to Russian investments and Chinese investments. Do you know why Mr. Jovanovic? Not just for economic reasons, for security reasons. When you have Russian investments in Serbia, when you have Chinese investments in Serbia, then the country is safer. Do you think 1999 would have happened to us what happened to us if we had more Russian and Chinese investments? I'm sure he wouldn't. No one would have thought to drop bombs on NIS facilities in Novi Sad if the NIS had held the Russians at the time. So when you approach the investment problem, you approach too much ideologically...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16847	Time, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16848	I'm done. We're accessing state-of-the-art. We see not only economic but also defence and strategic importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16849	Thank you. After the session is completed, as the Rules of Procedure says, by 18 hours, I would just ask my colleagues who have applied, we will continue to work tomorrow, to give the Minister of State and local self-government a chance as good hosts. If it's all right with you, so I've decided... People's MPs are getting, "We don't agree." ) (Marko Djurisic: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16850	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. The right to replica shall be given immediately to an MP who shall request when he is mentioned, when he is misread and so on. You had here a presentation of fellow Martinovic, caused several replicas mentioning both Mr. Jovanovic and Mr. Krasic and the president of my party and we all sought the right to reply. You only gave Mr. Jovanovic and then returned the ball to Mr. Martinovic and gave him, of course, to speak against the business limit of two minutes. He talked for two and a half minutes. Please, I don't care what time it is, or what time it is, or if the minister has anything to say, there's all day, she could say, we want to end this circle of replicas here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16851	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I'm reporting for breach of article 27. I'm not asking you to make a statement in the voting day about this breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I think you have a duty to respect the order of the National Assembly. Do not act under pressure, whether this pressure comes from this or that parliamentary group. I have to take you back a few minutes. You gave the word to Minister Ana Brnabic and she had the microphone on. Afterwards, Marko Djurisic called to advertise his injury to the Rules of Procedure He didn't answer for a replica. [[Marko Djurisic: I answered for the replica.]] He reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure because he allegedly... Marko Djurisic: Shame on you. ) Here, now says I'm ashamed of anything I've reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't matter, because Boris Tadic was allegedly mentioned. Marko Djurisic: Shame on you for anything you lie about. So, you gave the word...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16852	Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16853	Give me the right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16854	Please, I'll give you a warning. I don't mind, it speaks of these democratic, European civil forces in Serbia. So, you've already given Mrs. Ani Brbanic your word, you've turned on the microphone and I ask you to allow the Minister's office to present the government's position on this agenda for the next ten minutes. You can't give a word to someone, so after that, because someone's a loudmouth and because someone has a higher tone than the minister, you give him the word. So, I ask you, according to the Rules of Procedure, to give the Minister's position to the Government on this item of the agenda, and I do not ask to be asked to vote on my objection that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Thank you. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. As we said, the word has Minister Ana Brnabic and we're done. Here you go. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16855	Thank you very much. If I can just answer a few questions that are important. So, as far as the mediators are concerned, it seems to me to be one of the things mentioned today that is very important to the citizens of Serbia. She was wondering who the middleman was and who gets a commission from this job? There's no middleman in this business. There is a commission to organise a job which is 0.75% of the amount of the loan and it is practically just an administrative cost taken by the German Development Bank to process this loan. So there's no middleman and no one else in this business gets the money. The important thing that is also mentioned, which is important for Serbian citizens, is that there was an explosion in the activation of guarantees during 2015. I think everyone needs to be clear and it seems clear to me that it's so easy to understand, but let's do it again just in case. If there was an explosion in the activation of the guarantee in 2015, then this occurred as a result of the negotiation of some earlier loans and agreements. So if there were at least three years of grace periods, and most likely five years of grace periods, then these are loans and agreements agreed in 2010, and now they have to be paid because they are not well agreed. So it has nothing to do with these deals that this government of the Republic of Serbia has to do with. These are commitments from 2010. Worst case scenario, from 2012, if the grace period was three years and that's absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-22-0.u16856	Thank you. This is what we've done today's work. We'll be back to work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you for such a good discussion, and thank you, Minister.
