ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21951	Honorable President, Honorable Ministers...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21952	Quiet, we can't hear John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21953	Honorable President, Honorable Ministers...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21954	They're all filming the hall. Yesterday, the MPs of your group on cell phones recorded it. Please, MP, hold on, it pisses them off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are really very important laws in front of us discussed by the National Assembly. In my presentation, I will concentrate primarily on the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration and amending the Law on Civil Servants. Regardless of the previous attempts that concerned clear and concrete management of public administration personnel, I believe that the proposed laws that we are discussing today are the first real concrete, systematic and organised approach to public administration staff management. The fact is that we also have the establishment and establishment of the Staff Management Service and the High Official Council in the previous period. By this time they gave their results and certainly the government of the Republic of Serbia believes it is now necessary to move on to the next step regarding a clear and concrete way of managing public administration personnel. Personally, I am not in favor of that saying by Staninov, that the personnel solve everything, but certainly the opposite of that, that the personnel are irrelevant in the public administration, is something that may have marked some previous time, but now is the opportunity for both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all of us together to address this important issue. In previous discussions on these bill proposals, we could hear, on the one hand, criticism of the reality we are in when it comes to public administration, on the other hand, and criticism of the proposed laws. Personally, I have not heard any concrete proposal on how and in what way to systematically provide for the next period of professional training of public administration personnel. I think this step is indeed reformal and that this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a great step in the right direction. Certainly, public administration reforms, when looked at in the previous period, cover several segments. One is the establishment of a legislative and institutional framework; the other is rationalisation in the public administration; the third is the introduction of an e-government and this fourth step relating to continuous and permanent training. In that sense, the proposal for a Law on the National Academy of Public Administration and the establishment of such an institution is nothing new. This was about us taking over or imposing this on the Republic of Serbia by the EU and I would disagree, given that these and similar institutions have countries that have successfully reformed continue to improve their public administration. It is just an example of the existence, for example, in France, which is believed to be the best organized state administration in history today, the existence of a national school for administration. Serbia should, in this sense, take the best examples from European and world practice, in order to make the state administration, which is the core of the state, which is the engine of state and state administration, the most efficient. Yes, in modern times, the state takes on more and more new areas and more new obligations towards citizens, and in this sense it is necessary that, what Slobodan Jovanovic once said, we form such a state administration that, unlike the legislative body that works, it will be the administration that works, which makes decisions quickly and which is vigorously solving issues and performs tasks. In that sense, I believe that the state administration and civil servants, which we will succeed in creating in the next period in the Republic of Serbia, will be a real example of how to organise states in the interest of citizens. Personally, I think that the approach that was heard here and often pointed out that this would certainly be another bad example, that this would further contribute to the politicization of the state administration. I suggest, and why don't we think the opposite way? Why don't we think that this is exactly the right step to form a state administration and a civil servant who will be a patriot and committed to the state and its laws and who will be committed to the citizens and their rights and who will really work in the interests of the state and its citizens? What is the true contribution of these draft laws is to systematically organise and connect all institutions dealing with human resources policy in a series of state authorities, from the management of personnel that we have in state bodies to executives who are responsible for assessing the situation, when it comes to state administrations and civil servants, to the National Academy that will lead to permanent training. This is where we talk about why we don't go from reality to doing this as a last step. Reality changes all the time. We are precisely these bill proposals in an opportunity to change this reality, creating an efficient, modern and concrete state administration. I welcome these proposals from the government of the Republic of Serbia. I think they're completely in the direction of creating an efficient, concrete and good state administration, and it's certainly necessary with optimism, because it's easy to criticise, it's easy to speak here in a populist way. We should welcome what are good solutions and what will make Serbia a modern, democratic, effective state, with strong and stable institutions. In any case, I welcome and invite all MPs to support these bill proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21956	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21957	Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 287. So the authorised representative has the right to address Tuesdays and Thursdays for five minutes. You turned Srdjan Leg off the session yesterday for no reason. The man was asking a question that follows him in the Rules of Procedure, and you've made a big problem. Don't hold the session properly. You've made a circus out of the Parliament. You ruled the man out of the session, and then you yourself said, in your speech, that you were ready to withdraw everything that was said. So this is a laugh. You made it out of the Parliament... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21958	This is a classic abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Article 103, item 8, two minutes less for your parliamentary group, since you have reported that you are false about yesterday's event. Secondly, the abuse of a breach of the Rules of Procedure must be done directly. It's a new day. And I'm particularly disappointed with your behavior, because you've been to consultations and you didn't want to accept anything. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21959	I don't want to sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21960	Just sit down. You're done with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21961	What's this about? People's MPs have no right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21962	Your demagogy was enough. People's MPs have the right to work, and you're preventing them from working. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21963	Well, here we from the SRS, as well as the majority of Serbia, expect you to finally begin to realise your pre-election promises. Your promises, among the most prominent, were that you would abolish the agencies, that you would abolish the bureaus, to reduce the administration, to disbursement budgets and budgets, which are spent on officials appointed in agencies and bureaus in the earlier period. Here, now, we're just surprised. You instead of doing what you promised in the election campaign, which is part of your program, you came up with the idea of forming a National Academy. What would you say, if Vlasi didn't know, you put the term "national", and basically, as a place of justification for the existence of such an institution, the EU. In fact, a man might think you're European nationalists. You want to go to Europe and form something national. Or, even better say, global nationalists, since Europe has begun to mess with you and begin calling you, their representatives, that you are European nationalists, but here we are telling you that you are globalistic nationalists. What's to justify the establishment of this academy? Justification, we see from the material provided, is that training is done within the administration to train those who do very, very responsible jobs in the next period, so that by doing their work, you have pointed out first, as many investments as possible, and the realisation of investments in this country. In order for the administration to do so, you have come to realize that there is a need to train in the administration, and by example, the Resort Ministry does not adhere to certain rules that must be respected. You have a situation that, for example, in certain local self-governments, the AP, and even in the republican authorities, the management chiefs or the most responsible persons are very qualified, in principle, lawyers, sometimes and economists, but you will rarely meet, anywhere, in any local self-government, to make an exception, how this makes a resorient ministry. You at the Department of State and local self-government at the secretary's office have a graduate veterinarian, a wonderful man, an expert. He was president of the municipality, or the city of Zrenjanin, or he is from Melenac. The man is a veterinarian, and you have the secretary of administration, because at the time he was transferred to the ministry, at the time he was defined within the party for Tomislav Nikolic, as I recall. You obviously have vets running administration and local self-government, and lawyers treat cattle. I think his name is Bosnjakovic or Bosnjakov. Maybe it's an exception, but hopefully you'll give your example of how it's supposed to be done, so you'll put each one in place. Basically, what's the most important thing here? That's what MP Bojic from the SRS told you. The costs here are very high, very high. You gentlemen are making it very clear that only for the equipment of the premises, the space where this academy will be located takes a million and a half euros. Now in this situation, when literally Serbian citizens put an end to the end, Serbian citizens, you are investing as easily as a million and a half euros in equipping the space where they will be employed in this academy. You're projecting 40 million for next year's budget funds to provide salaries to employees. You're predicting 30 employees at this academy. Did you imagine that this National Academy would function by having the one from Presevo, the one from Bujanovac, the one from Vranja, or Subotica or Canjiza come to Belgrade to attend training? How did you come up with that? What's the point?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21964	Thank you. Your task force has wasted its time. Jahja Fehratovic is not here. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21965	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Minister Ruzic with his associates, the Honorable Ministers LJajić with his associates, the Bill on the National Academy of Public Administration, the amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Servants, which we are discussing today, aim to ensure a comprehensive standardized and sustainable system of professional training of public administration staff, which will raise the level of training and quality of work. The bill represents a significant segment of public administration reform, aimed at improving the work of public administration, providing high-quality services to citizens and towards economic operators and creating such a public administration that will contribute to economic stability and increasing citizens' living standards as a factor of development. The public administration reform should be implemented in line with the modern trends and requirements Serbia needs to meet in the EU accession process. The establishment of the National Academy of Professional Training is one of the strategic approaches in the field of human resources management in the state sector. Human resources in the public administration represent the most significant quality. There is no social and economic development without strong, professional and efficient administration. Public administration reform is a complex and long-term process. It is a condition of further progress and one of the most important segments of this process is to conduct education of all public administration employees, undermining all employees, because it has not been the case so far. This ensures raising the quality of work. Accordingly, one of the key principles for the overall improvement of the state administration is its professionalisation. Therefore, the organised, continuous professional development of civil servants, based on real needs and opportunities, has special significance and contributes significantly to the accelerated process of European integration. In the proposed concept, the National Academy is a central body in the area of professional training of public sector employees with the status of publicly recognised organiser of the activities of informal adult education. Accordingly, the bill also provides for the establishment of permanent co-operation with the private sector and with interested professionals who can contribute to their competences better the work of the Academy, but also a better quality education that would be implemented under the professional training programme. Starting with this, as well as the importance of the education and training process, I am convinced that the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration will help bring our country's administrative capacities closer to the EU standards. This will, in particular, contribute to good administration and allow public institutions and employees in practice to carry out more easily the tasks set out in the laws and other legal acts. In addition to planning the election of personnel, evaluations, awards, promotions is precisely a professional improvement of one of the key elements in the overall achievement of the objectives of public administration reform. Given that the proposed solutions significantly improve the system of professional training, everyone will be allowed to exercise their right and commitment to professional training in a more effective, efficient way. What I would like to point out on the basis of my years of experience, above all in the local self-government of the Vrbas municipality, I would ask my colleagues for a little attention, is that local self-governments are working on professionals who are willing to perfect their skills, and all in order to be the real service of citizens and they, Mr. Minister, welcome the proposed solutions, because I have had the opportunity to introduce them to the proposed solutions and have commended certainly the arguments that are part of this bill, which are comprehensive, thorough and precise, so that they have all had the opportunity to get to know all the provisions of the law and that they have no doubt that something is hidden. Finally, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21966	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21967	Thank you. I will primarily engage, i.e. I will engage in a debate on the Law on the National Academy. Starting with the state of public administration, I think the necessity of the National Academy of Public Administration is precisely that of forming itself. What the opposition is saying is that it's an educational attack, I don't see a single word in the bill that it violates Serbia's education system anywhere. Since the public administration is a quark diapazon of educational professions, jobs, etc., it is impossible for the administration to learn practically in an educational institution. It is therefore good to have one at the level of the state, or the Republic of the institution, a body that will direct education, training, training of people working in public administration, especially if it is taken to be a working age for 40 years, and for 40 years believe that much is changed especially in the era of globalisation, computing, etc. If you do not follow these trends, you are simply lagging behind in the law enforcement system, law enforcement, law control, etc., so that the necessity of a National Academy, as proposed here, was also a being. That is where to go, in my opinion, from the most basic things, from the culture of communication, to the counter, to the communication via the counter, from whether the worker should sit lower than the party, equal to the party, etc., all this is one way, the beginning of communication of a good communication. To be considered here not only a party's physical face, the parties are much more than one natural person. Of course they're also the party's physical faces. What's the key to the National Academy, in my humble opinion, are lecturers. In my opinion, lecturers should be people who really have passed the job, felt it under their fingers, to be part of a team that will train public administration workers, civil servants, because simply this job is not taught at any educational institution. Simply, this job is taught by work, practice and according to demands and changes in society. I will provide some examples of specific interests within the public administration. Let's just say, the Veterinary Authority, it's simply necessary for this state to be able to carry out everything that is necessary within the veterinary system. So you need professional people within the veterinary system. This is where State Secretary Ivan Bosnjak was mentioned. I have a very high opinion of him. I think he's doing his job extremely well. He's shown it so far in his business and he needs to stay here to work because, I said at first, we have a wide diapazon waist that works in public administration. I think he's one of them and he showed it in his work. For example, the Asset Agency, the same specific professions stand here. Institute of Statistics, the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is 80 – 90% professional and technical work, but is a special organization. The national agency must respect the specificities of individual education and titles, i.e. jobs. In the teaching work, there must be real approach, realistically simulate real work in the public administration so that those who come to training really have additional knowledge and that they can then do it in realisation and in business towards the parties. Let's say, an example of an inspection. Usually, many try to be ahead of inspections so that they can do something that is not allowed. After all, there is a good part of the inspection for that kind of work. In order for inspections to be able to work well, quality must be trained, and in order to train, so that there is no ad hoc training, so that it is not individual, so that many people do not strive, it is best that we have a National Agency that unites and conducts a unique type of training for all levels of inspection. No one mentioned it here and I think it's very important – office business. Office business, as far as I know, even though I'm a technical profession, nowhere on the educational level in our country is being studied seriously, but it's one framework that no one can get out of, because office business simply doesn't allow you to avoid one way in public administration of how you have to behave. Simply, the office business has been following you since the entry of the case into the authority of the administration, until its completion, delivery to the parties and archiving. Office business is something the National Academy must pay serious attention to in further training. What I think the National Academy will do well should adapt its training programmes to the needs, have a uniform criteria for raising workers' knowledge in the public administration, to achieve quality and to get better work. That's why I will support all three laws within my group's envoys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21968	Thank you. The word is Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21969	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers with associates, the creation of this proposal for a law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business, we can freely say that the Republic of Serbia has technically, technologically, organisationally and informationally reached the level at which the system of doing business and other activities, as well as ways of doing business, is actually being followed by the development of electronic business. As information technologies develop daily, we can say that new, more flexible solutions based on technological achievements are being opened daily, which actually facilitate the functioning of electronic business. However, what was necessary in the Republic of Serbia is a legal framework in which this electronic business could be regulated, which implies a legal framework that would achieve faster and more efficient electronic business, in which business would be achieved with a reduction of costs, then the development and expansion of the market for trust services and what is most important for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is faster and more efficient work by public authorities, as well as making it easier for public authorities to access as many services as possible and for electronic documentation. As a result, the writing of this proposal of the law has been made very careful and detailed, in order to prevent and minimise the creation and development of mechanisms of abuse of this law. What the Minister said in his opening statement and explained in detail, as well as my fellow MPs and MPs in the previous presentation, this bill actually regulates areas of electronic document, electronic identification, trust services, electronic signature areas, electronic stamps, time stamps, web-site authentication and electronic document keeping. This proposal introduces the concept of a trust service provider. It will actually be companies that will practically deal with electronic identification services, the integrity of these electronic data. In order to obtain the status of qualified trust service providers from these providers, it is necessary that they be entered in the register of qualified trust service providers, which is necessary to provide a conformity assessment report, which is issued by the body accredited to assess the compliance of qualified service providers and qualified services provided by them. In this way, the awareness of citizens creates a higher level of security and guarantees for the security of the mechanisms of application of this law. After the adoption of this bill, it is necessary to adopt 17 other sublegal acts defining electronic identification, electronic delivery, electronic storage, electronic signature and other trust services in electronic business. What is important is to point out that by adopting such a single bill, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economy benefit first. The greatest step in such a legal solution is that it enables the legal and evidence forces of an electronic document to be leveled with the legal and evidence power of the paper document. This law will affect the modernisation and efficiency of the work of public authorities, as it will be able to issue acts in their work in electronic form and in this same way to deliver to other public authorities as well as to citizens. Digitalised acts of natural and legal persons will also have the same evidence and legal force as original acts, with less use of paper documents, increased access to documents and made it easier to use and search documents, all allowing for the right of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to have access to information of public importance. Since 63.8% of our citizens of the Republic of Serbia have an internet connection, over one and a half million people in Serbia use electronic administration services, over 1.2 million of our citizens order goods via the Internet and 99.1% of businesses in the Republic of Serbia use the internet, we can freely say that security, organisation and technology have reached all the preconditions for the mass adoption of the electronic document. The electronic document is everywhere, it's actually every Ward, Pdf, or any other document that we're going to generate on paper instead of in some file on the computer. But what was necessary to create is a way to achieve our own hand signature in electronic form. Now, there is a qualified electronic signature, in exchange for a handwritten signature, which the minister explained very closely in the opening statement. The introduction of an electronic document in relation to the issue of documents in paper format brings numerous savings. First of all, it is direct savings in material resources, such as savings in the price of paper, postage, administration and space for their physical archiving, which is about 40 to 60% of the savings, but beyond that there are indirect savings, which are savings in optimization of the work process, improvement of the process of work, faster and more reliable delivery of the electronic document, monitoring of one whole life cycle of the electronic document, as well as facilitated use, search and access to these electronic documents. In addition to all these advantages that we have cited in this new and simpler way of functioning, this bill has also been created as a commitment made by the Republic of Serbia in the EU accession process. The conditions for providing trust services will be levelled with European standards and regulations, which will contribute to the interoperability of these services with confidence. What is important is that after the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the European Union, there will be a public list of these trust services, which will be accessible by all users, as well as third parties from EU member states. It is also important to carry out regular evaluation and verification of compliance with the conditions for the provision of qualified trust services. That is why inspection supervision is foreseen. Given that the implementation of this law requires one serious and consistent approach, to gain public confidence in the use of the electronic document, in the fact that the use of the evidence and legal force of the electronic document will be equated with the proof and legal strength of the paper, given that the Republic of Serbia has long gone a safe path in solving cyber security and cyber trust problems, following all European trends, I think the right time is to take one easier path to the world of electronic business. Due to all the above-mentioned advantages, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21970	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21971	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have the opportunity to discuss as well as these days the laws that clearly aim to put Serbia in a society where the most developed countries are, not only the European Union but the world. What we are honored by the proposal for such laws that there are no national academys that educate civil servants simply does not stand, because countries like France have a National School for Public Administration, which was founded in 1945 and that all French presidents have passed since its establishment. Then, Germany has a Federal Academy of Public Administration. Even the most advanced state, South Korea, has its own National Institute for Human Resources Development. Therefore, Serbia sees the best and therefore, as a legislative proposal today, we have the establishment of a National Public Administration Academy that should actually give the best personnel to lead the country in the future whose strategic goal is European integration, EU entry, and major changes in the geopolitical environment at all, not only in the EU, but also in the east and west of the future are waiting for all of us. Therefore, this government shows one of the highest levels of responsibility that it wants to prepare all its personnel and all its human resources to be ready for all the changes that are coming, and on the other hand to represent one advantage in terms of its competences, to be recognized by the most developed states, to have such institutions where it has its best staff. For this reason, it should be said today that from 2007 to 2017 this education worked as a staff management service or so on. Sook. To date, 34,000 educations have passed by all civil servants. If we take the information that 3,350 civil servants passed that education last year, we come to the conclusion that some 3,000 employees had that education annually. So over the past four years, about 14,000 students have had this education, and by 2012, those who honor us here, as we are about to educate some new political staff, have just educated 20,000 participants. These are all cheap political manipulations in public, so now we're introducing something new. No, we're just building up the system in a much more modern, quality way that we really want to get in line with the most developed countries. What should be said is that the Republic of Serbia has problems with the staff in local self-government and we should not hide it at all, and we are all aware of that here. Well, if you take just an example that we introduced the law three years ago, let's just say, that we have committed that every local self-government should have its own energy efficiency manager and that needs to pass education, believe me, that local self-government didn't complete this task, because it's very difficult to find in every municipality of engineers who went through certain education, to get licenses that they can do this job, and imagine only when we talk about management heads, heads of certain sectors and people who need to run a political part of local self-government that are completely different professions. And then we come into a situation that many politicians who have been elected by citizens, because citizens have confidence that they will implement a particular policy, have a problem technically implementing certain activities that are required when it comes to local self-government. Therefore, this National Academy will have great significance in the future, and what I think, now, we'll cut this off, is hiring in local self-government to solve social issues of certain local self-government, as was the case in 2012, to say, in one Leskovac, you had 700 people employed in state local self-government. What should be said is that this government has actually done a rationalization in general when it comes to civil servants that with a natural outflow and with a certain reorganisation of the state administration so far, 40,000 people have left the state administration, which is why we have rationalized the number, but it has also encouraged those who remain in the state service to do their job in the most efficient way. What is certainly resolved by this law is that the planning of personnel is raised to the highest level, the evaluation of personnel, to conduct competitions in the most transparent way possible and that is what actually raises the quality level of local self-government at all. It will actually be a centre of professional training, education, means colleges, completed schools do not give you the opportunity to do your job effectively in the state administration, but just this professional training by colleagues who have careerly passed many positions in the state administration and have this work experience that can simply pass on to you as a young counselor or a reference who deals with a particular job. When we talk about these laws relating to electronic business in and in general to IT security, I just want to say that today's bill, which we have here, which introduces electronic signature, electronic stamp, electronic delivery, we are practically establishing the application of the mechanisms that bring what Prime Minister Brnabic was talking about, introduces digitisation in Serbia. That's what we have to face, whether we want it or not. Yeah, it's just that if we don't master these mechanisms and do this kind of work, we can't move forward. Now, how do you explain it to a world that simply has a great deviation to the use of IT technology. In a simple way you can see, when we introduced the application of digital television, when that analogue channel was shut down, those people who didn't want to deal with new technologies, telecommunications and IT were in a certain way forced to move forward, to start taking an interest in the topic and to deal with it. I say that especially for people who live in small areas or rural areas, and in some ways I think our people like to learn and learn new knowledge of new technologies. We have somewhere in our culture to be that we want to always be the first to know and learn and finally, by the results of the young people they achieve in the world, we show that we are simply the kind of people we want to learn. We're not ashamed to do this, and I think what we're introducing right now as the new technology systems that we're going to manage gives us a new impulse to really deal with a new age, with that fourth industrial revolution. What is the best effect and the best example of the use of electronic business in general, and these services of trust, above all, are certain institutions that function, for example within the Ministry of Finance, there is a Centre for Mandatory Social Insurance. It is one institution that performs all its functions via the portal, i.e. there is no legal or physical person who has begun to work and who does not have health clearance, that is not secured without being reported through this portal. What makes me a good example, because the current electronic approach authorised has over 170 thousand debtors, and only in 2017, around two million applications for mandatory social security were filed through the portal. I want to say that Serbia has already entered developed countries and I think that by adopting these four draft laws, we are really showing that Serbia is going safely, not only on a European path, but is going one way of progress. That's why in the voting day, I'm going to support these four proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21972	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21973	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, today is a modern society of information society and therefore employees have to innovate their knowledge. Knowledge acquired at universities and relevant schools is a job visa, but it is necessary to build knowledge through the permanent education of employees during the working century. I therefore find it extremely important to pass legislation on the National Academy which actually establishes the National Academy of Public Administration, a central institution for professional training in public administration with the status of a publicly recognised organiser of the activities of informal adult education. Under professional training within the meaning of this law, an organised process of training of public administration staff is understood, based on general and specific training programmes of managers, and in order to acquire knowledge, values, attitudes, abilities and skills aimed at raising the level of competences necessary to carry out the tasks of a defined work and competence, i.e. public administration. It also takes care of human resources and career progress based on earned points through employee training, obtaining appropriate certification and evaluation at the training seminar. What is significant and what is a newspaper is that this education will also be mandatory for the highest officials, ministers, municipal presidents and commissioners. The Academy will be established as a special organisation in order to ensure independence and continuity, and, above all, from the fact that the work of the national academy is professional and related executives, whose nature requires greater independence from the body within the ministry. It should certainly be noted that it will be supervised by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The law also stipulates that the National Academy has special professional bodies, both the Programme Council and the Permanent Programme Commission. The Programme Council is the basic expert body of the National Academy, which is under review, determines and gives an opinion, initiatives and others on the most important professional issues from the work of the National Academy. Permanent programming committees, are educated according to the basic thematic areas of the expert training programme in the public administration, in order to guide the development of thematic areas and to propose their promotion in line with established needs for professional training. They aim to make the work of the national academy more efficient, as their tasks are focused on preparatory, ongoing or operational issues. The objectives to be achieved by this law are to further improve public administration, in line with the principles of European administrative space, i.e. providing high quality services to citizens and economic operators, so professional and polite public administration at both local and republican level. The creation of such a public administration in the Republic of Serbia, which will make a significant contribution to economic stability and increasing citizens' living standards, because we will all agree that there is no successful growth without strong public administration, so I will support this bill in the voting day, as well as two other proposals on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21974	Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović spoke. Danica Bukvić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21975	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk today about the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration, which I find extremely important and necessary. Continuing education is necessary today in all spheres and activities, which we ourselves are witnesses, so it is necessary to carry out this among government employees and public services. I especially support this and understand the need to pass this law, given that as a health care professional, a doctor, I have perfected my whole life. The law regulates the National Academy to be the central institution of professional training in the public administration of the Republic of Serbia. The importance of this law is that its application contributes to depoliticalisation and professionalisation in public administration. A different way of progress in the public service will be enabled, which is determined by the adequate professional training of the employee. What is most important and the purpose of this law is to enable every citizen to have a quick, professional and professional service. Thus, local self-government will function as modern and efficient civil service. This, of course, also applies to employees of health and social security funds, which will make their services more efficient and accessible to citizens. The adoption of the proposed law, in addition to professional training and increasing the efficiency and quality of work of public administration employees, will fulfil our obligation to the EU. I would point out that the National Academy, as a central institution, is educated as a special organization and has a legal personality. The special subject of the National Academy is the Programme Council and the Permanent Programme Commission. The programme council shall consist of a president and 14 members appointed and authorised by the Director of the National Academy. The director of the National Academy also educates the permanent programming committee. As part of these permanent programming committees, experts from the relevant thematic area and employees at the national academy are appointed with significant and recognised experience mainly from the work of the public administration. From everything out of the blue, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21976	Thank you. The word is Diana Vukomanovic. He's not here. Dubravka Filipovski, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21977	Dear Ministers Ljajic and Ruzic, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, we are today discussing a set of laws that are important for depolitisation and professionalisation and public administration and local self-government. These laws are undoubtedly important for Serbia's further progress, economic sustainability and progress. That's why I will support this set of laws in the voting day. When it comes to the Law on civil servants, amendments and additions to this law, we had three years ago, it is an important system law, and the working group is beside newspapers, important for the lives of citizens and citizens of Serbia, and has seen shortcomings in the functioning of this law for the past three years. The aim of this law is to introduce order into the public administration system. It increases the responsibility of the employees. The goal is to balance, reward those who work hard and educate those who work weaker, that there are no fragrant differences between those who do the same job and have different incomes. Also, effective local self-government must be our standard, so it is important how we manage human resources, because people who do work in local self-government and in public administration directly affect the lives of our citizens. Local self-government must be transformed into a modern, capable, economical and responsible administration. From experience in the work of local self-government, I find it very important that all local self-governments have their own five-year or ten-year development strategies. They must also have teams that monitor projects and work on projects and I believe that the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government takes care of other activities and that. We need to understand that only good and motivated personnel, well deployed, achieve the efficiency in the work we need for progress and wider social development. Of course, it is important that we take on the experience of the EU, the countries that have already solved these issues. I think it's a good thing we're going in this direction, and it's important that we draw the line and really look at where we are based on identified deficiencies and move further towards the planned goals. Public debate was held for this Civil Service Act. Following a public debate, more than 70% of remarks were accepted. I have to admit that I didn't understand the recent protest of one of the unions who, in his protest, expressed disdain for their view that this Law on civil servants is simply denying the rights of workers. I don't see any way that this law can be suspended from any public service talking to the minister or representatives of the ministry about the basics, the coefficient and everything they care about. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I wanted to ask you two questions, Minister Ruzic, because I think it would be very important to point out that the criteria for objectively measuring the efficiency of the work process, as well as the standards and the clear criteria that would be applied in the evaluation? How do government officials evaluate themselves in a position when civil servants stop working in a position? I think it's very important that in the course of the debate you once again point out the answers to these questions I've asked you. As far as the Law on the Electronic Document is concerned, I would like to say very briefly that it facilitates administrative procedures and improves the provision of services to citizens. I believe this law is about the way we seal over time into the past, where it belongs. How important e-Government and the new e-Government Act is, as one of the system laws that we expect in this high house by the end of this year, I will point out only two examples. This, the entry of newborns back in maternity homes, and from June 1st to today, the administration of Serbia, using e-ZUP, exchanged over 15,000 documents. So I find this set of laws very important for further progress and progress in Serbia. Once again, I will support them in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21978	Thank you. Bosko Obradovic is not here. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21979	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, I would say that the predecessor of these legal proposals that were before us today was the government's work programme, which was presented to both MPs and citizens in the day of the government's election in this honored home. In fact, an emphasis was put on modernising and improving the work of the public administration already at the time. I think these laws are actually a product or, to put it that way, the fulfillment of that plan, which is somewhere and fine. In fact, strengthening the capacity of the public administration is probably a prerequisite for the development of a state and its modernisation, after all. It is important for this system to grow from one regulator to a clean citizen service. It is certainly important to establish a new body called the National Public Administration Academy, which will in fact be an upgrade to that formal part of education that each public administration official has. We have heard various criticisms in the past few days, but I have somehow found the most striking criticism that this is a slap with a formal education system in Serbia, and I have also noticed that some opposition MPs have somehow treated that name with nationalism. But, well, I guess that's part of their political agenda. Namely, this is something that is an upgrade of this formal education of every official and way to sort of standardize and uniformize this learning, professional training, exchange of experiences of every public administration official, certainly not questioning everything that is formal education and improvement in some private direction of every citizen of this country. I've seen in Article 6, the Honorable Minister, in article 6, you've foreseen a wide range of associates, both persons and institutions, who can help in the work of the National Academy. It's a good thing higher education institutions are conditioned to be accredited, that's a condition for them to be co-workers of the National Academy. We thus disprove the view that this is somehow a slap to the education system. It can be concluded from this that it is clear that the Academy will depend on these and such institutions, on these and such faces, not the other way around. I don't even want to talk about that other part, which is about contempt for the name National, I think it says enough about themselves. Otherwise, this is a problem that has been burdening Serbia for decades. I think, in any case, this government deserves to be commended for the step it's decided upon. Finally, someone decided after decades to deal with this problem, and it should certainly be appreciated. The fact is that the number of employees in both public administration and public enterprises, in public institutions, is 80,000 smaller, but in itself it would not have been a success if these people had ended up on the street, as it was by 2012, when people who had lost their jobs and measured hundreds of thousands of people, ended up on the street, unemployment grew. It should be noted that 80,000 people have been fired, but that the unemployment rate in Serbia has been drastically reduced. This is where the success of this government is seen when it comes to public administration reform and I believe it is a success, in fact I know that it is the success of the government and Alexander Vukic, but also others led later by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic along with you, honourable ministers. Everything else is, of course, floscule and demagogy and this is the only measurable result and this is the only thing that is seen in the light of the political action of today's government. This is the only thing that will remain behind this government and be measurable. Therefore, Your Honors Minister, I will definitely support these proposals in the voting day, as well as any other proposals leading to the modernisation of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21980	Thank you. The word is Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21981	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the SDPS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws, and in this short time, as far as I have it available, I will try to refer to this law on e-business. It's a very important law that surrounds an area where we started working a few years ago. A pretty big job has been done, a high-quality law has been passed that puts things in one balanced way, some in law, and some in sublaws. I think it's something worth commending. Of course, we still have one big job left, and that's the one about the implementation of this law. After the law has been passed, as the minister said, 17 sublaws should be passed over the next 12 months, i.e. if the proposed amendment is adopted, in the next six, 12, 18 months, and after that the implementation of the whole law, which is certainly the biggest job. I think it is very important to point out, and that is what the minister has already said, that it is very good that technical specifications, to say, are derived from the law, that the law represents practically one core of the most important things, those things that are unchangeable, and that sublaws contain those things that change, or those things that are in the era of an Internet revolution that brings us tremendously fast changes, which are almost impossible to predict and are beyond the legal solution. That makes us sure we don't have to change that law on an annual basis or maybe more often than that. When we talk about IT, telecommunications, mobile phone, we talk about an area where almost every day something new is happening. He didn't even have a full 4G, and we have a 5G today. The cell phone today is more and more of a mobile wallet. I believe it's not far from the day when our mobile phone will become a mobile remote control, and not just those devices we're used to managing, like air conditioning or televisions, but I also believe some devices we don't have today, like smart refrigerators, and I believe they'll become a mobile key that will open our offices, our apartments, our cars, and run the engines of our cars. If so, why wouldn't a cell phone be the key to this kind of communication? I believe that we all agree that this is something that is necessary in today's day. However, some colleagues ask a question and fear, which is not unjustified, about data security. They say -- there was a leak of some data from the Swedish Ministry of Defence, and that is why I don't remember, I must admit, the Swedish Defence Minister had to resign, but not the minister in charge of IT affairs that passed the law. Why am I stressing that? Because the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications is responsible for the adoption of this law and for the adoption of sublegal acts and possibly for providing some kind of professional assistance in the implementation, but not for maintaining the system afterwards and not for the security of the data that are being stored, nor for the security of the communication that will take place. So we need to distinguish these things, we need to understand where the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications is. Of course, the legal framework when it was being set was also thinking about it, so that's why we have different levels of data protection, depending on how important these data are. So, we predict everything that can be controlled by one legal proposal, and then we have sublegal acts that we're trying to establish complete control, as far as possible in this current era, of data security. We need to understand that data security, so to speak, is the scene of a continuous, continuous, therefore global war between those who are trying to protect you and those who are trying for different reasons to get their hands on these sensitive data. What is very important and what we need to know is that the more the diapazone of mobile telephony services or generally in electronic communications, the more security these data will be, not because it's logical, but because simple data security will become imperative, given the dissemination of services, and the dissemination of services is almost daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21982	Ivan Kostic. He's not here. ) The word is Mary Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21983	Thank you, Chairman. I order the violation of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure. You, as the chairman, are obliged to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, but you are constantly showing that you are not in a position to chair the Assembly and to hold this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21984	When was that?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21985	You use force all the time. You have given two warnings to Ambassador Bosko Obradovic, you have taken away... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21986	You can report directly, this is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Just directly, I won't let the Rules of Procedure be broken. Thank you very much. Learn. (National MP Marija Janjusevic approaches the chair of the chairman. Don't come near me, please, I didn't let you. I didn't let you do this. Hold it, hold it, hold it. I didn't let you. You brought a stone into the parliament of the Republic of Serbia in a woman's purse the other day, which I forgave you. Will you step aside, please? Yes, you've brought a stone into a woman's purse on fraud, I've forgiven you, behave yourself, you're a lady, please stay away. Don't be abused by your fellow MPs, don't be. (The National MP Marija Janjusevic stands in front of the table of the chairman-in-Office to the MPs and points to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I have to give you a warning. It's very difficult for me, you're young, you have no experience, but the reminder may help you. The word is Nikola Jolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21987	Honorable President, Honorable Ministers... (The National MP Marija Janjusevic stands in front of the table of the chairman-in-Office to the MPs. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21988	The letter gets another warning because she thinks she's on a fashion runway or in a theater. Go ahead. Let Nikola Jolovic speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21989	Amendments to the Law on civil servants, professional training, establishing a framework and implementing measures...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21990	I'm sorry, Nikola. (The National MP Marija Janjusevic is still standing in front of the table of the chairman-in-Office to the MPs. ( 2) Fellow Members, you have received another warning, which means you have no right to participate in this session. Thank you very much. Let her go, she's young, she has no experience. I ask the MP not to record because the opposition rebelled when an MP upstairs from those benches was recording, so it's worth everything equally, please. Thank you. Nikola Jolovic wants to talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21991	The Presidents, fellow MPs, amendments to the Law on State Servants, professional training and the establishment of the framework and implementation of the measures and activities envisaged by the Public Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia and the Action Plan for its implementation, as well as the establishment of a legal and institutional framework for professional training of employees in other bodies and public administration organisations on the basis of single programmes of professional training, as well as the additions proposed by the National Assembly, will be regulated and relations that ensure mutual compliance of the state-level system with the official system and the establishment of the Law on Employees in Autonomous Areas and Units of Local Self-Government. The amendments and additions to the law referred to above lay down the tasks of the National Public Administration Academy in the system of professional training of civil servants, as well as training programmes. The general training programme covering the initial training programme and the training programme will contribute to the fact that public officials who for the first time establish a working relationship within the state authority are trained to carry out this type of work, i.e. the introduction programme will provide them with an elementary level of knowledge that will help them carry out their professional examination, and the training programme will raise the level of expertise and practical skills of civil servants. Given that the professional training of civil servants located in management posts or preparing for it is as important as the professional training of other categories of civil servants, the law also provides for the introduction of training programmes for managers. This law enables the professional training of civil servants in accordance with the needs and responsibilities of the public authorities, i.e. the achievement of the needs of individual jobs, types of jobs or special groups of users, by prescribing specific training programmes carried out by the authorities that bring them in, with the possibility that their implementation can also be entrusted to the National Academy. The law also addresses issues relating to lecturers and training and professional training programmes for the work of the state authority. In this context, it is arranged who can be a lecturer in professional training programmes by defining that the lecturer selection is carried out from the order of experts in the field relevant to the work of the national authorities, primarily from the public body's staff order, and in a way that the lecturer is selected on the basis of its professional, working and teaching experience in the field to which it is applied. This law brings forth a number of other benefits when it comes to professional training and training of civil servants, in the most qualitative way possible, which will help our country, with so well-educated and improved officials and procedures to improve, to come another step closer to EU accession. Given this, it is essential that this law on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants be adopted as soon as possible. That is why SNS MPs will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21992	Thank you. Sanda Raskovic Ivić is not here. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21993	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will remain in my presentation today at the draft law on the National Academy. Namely, one of the fundamental human rights is the right to education and perfection. In this case, it is a matter of professional training, so that the National Academy of Public Administration, as provided for by this law, is precisely intended to respond to the requirement of professional training in the public administration, and all for the purpose of obtaining appropriate knowledge, expertise and other necessary technical skills necessary for the performance of business tasks under the jurisdiction of public administration. Experience and practice from EU countries suggests that this type of improvement is necessary in order to raise the very efficiency of the results of employees to a higher qualitative level in local self-government bodies, thus also increating quality levels in providing services and competencies within the working collectives themselves. Accordingly, the need to adopt good and stable practice, which undoubtedly produced good results in the Western countries of democratic order, is in itself imposed. One of the necessary steps towards achieving this goal is to adopt this bill. The draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration aims to start through the permanent and comprehensive education of existing staff in the public administration, but also personnel that are yet to begin work, with the education of their employees. It is one of the significant steps taken to creating a modern, stable and orderly administration. In fact, we live in the 21st century, times have changed and a modern state, with all its advantages and disadvantages, with an energetic and progressive pace that dictates urban life, requires a faster functional operation above all else, a system-educated public service and administration that will not exist for itself, but exclusively in the interests of citizens and the exposure to their elemental needs, in translation, to be a service of citizens. There have been situations in the past that we are welcomed by various Shojici, Pantici and Mice murderers, mostly with comments on what we have no right to, what we lack of documentation and that a colleague who signs this very solution that we need is currently on vacation, and after a vacation he goes to sick leave, and after his retirement, and so on. Such situations are being corrected and brought into order by a number of quality legal proposals that we have adopted, and thus by this bill which we are now discussing and which will be adopted. I would like to say further that this law provides for the unification of processes and practices. This basically means that the uniformity would overcome the difference in the regulations that exist in different local self-governments, since the metric decision-making of the administration itself was often so, that what is right in one city, i.e. the municipality, not necessarily in another city of the municipality, etc. incessantly. This unified the uniformity of municipal acts concerning certain areas would simplify the work of local self-government authorities and allow for a more efficient approach to the achievement of the primary objective, which is to raise the quality of life of citizens themselves and general qualitative standards, which is quite correct, since in that case citizens would not be forced to take an annual vacation to resolve some administrative formality or obligation, as even employers are not willing to tolerate several hours of absence from work by an employee, due to his efforts to meet his obligations of private character during the working shift. Finally, there is a potential risk of compromise of well-designed action. Given the characteristics of the mentality of the dominant population and the extremely unpopular practice of a previous period, it is necessary that the process of education to be conducted by the National Academy of Public Administration, through permanent programming committees, be accompanied by an adequate knowledge check, as provided for by this draft law, in Article 4 point 9 and in Article 8 point 7. So in voting day, I, as well as my colleagues from the SNS, will support this and all these bill proposals, which are on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21994	Okay. You can only speak from your place. You can't speak from here. Marija Janjusevic: No, I can tell you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure. This is terrible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21995	You can't do this to us, you have to understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21996	What I'm going to experience, so this is amazing. This is worse than Shojic's. Let's move on. So you don't want to talk. (National MP Marija Janjusevic addresses the president directly. Messengers, so what's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21997	We have our rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21998	I believe everything. Unbelievable, if you're not feeling well, we have a doctor just calm down. Don't shoot me, please. All right, call who we need to call. Calm down. It's gonna be okay. Take it easy. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u21999	I don't touch you, and you accuse me of touching you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22000	And what you're doing is forbidden in parliament. Don't make a circus.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22001	It is forbidden to trample on people's messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22002	MPs, I'm taking you out of the O.R. I won't. For nothing, but it's not worth it. Djordje Vukadinovic, does he want to speak in these conditions?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22003	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, I would very much like to say a few minutes about these things, but unfortunately, in this atmosphere, I don't think it's right and it's not fair to talk. I urge the presidency, or the president, to take some steps in order to interrupt the session, call for consultations, a college. I think the College of the Assembly, in these conditions, I don't think it's right, no matter what we have to say, specifically from the agenda. So, thank you, but under these circumstances, I would use this right. I think it's better for everyone and for the dignity of this home and for all of us, that we try to reset our relationships in some way. I, and I end up, for the past ten days in two moments speaking on those parliamentary issues, talking about it, it's part of it, let's just pounding empty straw, I didn't know what was going to happen, but I saw things going wrong. I appeal to everyone, therefore to my colleagues and to you, but above all, to the leadership and the president of the Assembly to try to reset these relations. Thank you, but since this discussion, I have abstained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22004	Thank you very much. Let's see who needs to talk now. (The National MP Marija Janjusevic stands in front of the chair table and points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please refrain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22005	But I'm asking you to just respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22006	Please calm down, if we have any doctors, let them in discreetly. I also know the minister is a doctor and everything is fine, if necessary, if you don't leave me alone. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. You have seven minutes and 59 seconds, if you want to talk about the law, and if not, then no.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22007	Thank you, Chairman. Otherwise, I thought I'd ask you how much time there is and I'd use those seven minutes to stand and keep my mouth shut on this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22008	I respect your decision, but it says very clearly in the Rules of Procedure that you have to talk about the subject. I can sit for eight minutes, I'll order coffee, it's no problem, but according to the Rules of Procedure that's been brought in and who's been coerced past this call to us to work, you have to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22009	I've been trying to study the Rules of Procedure and I don't know which member of the Rules of Procedure says I have to use my time. And silence is sometimes more than a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22010	So you're still talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22011	It represents a view of what is happening in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22012	You're still talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22013	I'm talking about why I don't want to talk about it, because I think I need to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22014	Okay, thank you very much, then you can stand those seven minutes we'll keep working. The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22015	Thank you. I'm sorry to have to interrupt the party of some MPs and MPs, but I have to tell you, what you're doing leads to anarchy and you need to be aware of that. This isn't parliamentary democracy, this is an anarchism.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22016	Thank you so much for understanding. The next speaker is Zoran Radojcic. Then, Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22017	Dear gentlemen, although these are specific conditions, I pray for a little silence. I'm inspired by a young lady standing in front of the president to speak better than I'd say if she wasn't here. I only ask Minister Ruzic to be focused, because I will give some suggestions that will be concrete and I will try to say what no one has said so far. So I'm not repeating myself, and you're gonna see from my statement that I'm right. First of all, no one has said that this Law on civil servants has changed six times so far, which says a lot about the problems we've been in. On the other hand, this is a continuation of the reforms initiated by Ana Brnabic, who served as minister for local self-government. This is a step forward and I will, of course, vote for these laws, but I put certain objections or suggestions, or I point to certain dangers. First, in order for an officer to change his post without a competition, I think it's not enough, and I need his and both of his executives' consent. I mean, mathematically stated that this can only be a necessary condition, that it's not enough, that criteria and procedures must be developed when this is done, so that there can be no abuse, because those three faces can make abuse. It takes control. On the other hand, the law says exactly in which cases professional training is needed, and there it is said – if the obligations are not met at least 10%. It's okay, but it's not said who determines those 10% and how. That's got to be ensured. What's important, the National Academy of Public Administration is not a new agency, it's not a new imposition. It replaces the Staff Management Service, which is very important for Serbian citizens to know. She has a legal personality, she's funded from the Republic's budget. The Academy is taking over all personnel management workers. She perfects, but what is important, she keeps perfecting, so the emphasis on this word is "permanent" perfection. What's commendable, it connects personnel records. Within the prescribed time limit, the public authorities must provide information to the academy. So all the data would have to be centralized. Now, what's the danger? You wrote here that the National Academy can deal with commercial programs. Minister Ruzic, it is a danger that must be sanctioned, which must be limited. And, what Comrade Seselj says, it's a gig. Now, when that income is realised, then it must be said and where that income is going, whether that income is going back to the budget or remains academia and what the academy is doing with that money, which has to be written. Minister Ruzic, what is necessary, beware, all the laws, all the regulations, all that is fine, but if there is no supervision and if there is no control of the regulations and the law has nothing. I suggest you, as minister, form flying expert teams that will suddenly check how local self-government works. Go ahead, Comrade Seselj. (Vojislav Seselj: This idea is something I know. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22018	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22019	No, no. I'm not finished, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22020	Oh, I'm sorry. I see you've entered communication with the MP second.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22021	Please, the weakest, Minister Ruzic, the weakest point in the city administration, in the municipal administration, is a public procurement service. In municipalities, city administrations usually do so by a man who is very easy and very softly arranged with a manager. And that's the main source of corruption in local self-government. Please train these people to pay attention. Secondly, to prescribe that one person can't do this, but has to work three, one of which must be a graduate law student at the state college, one must be an economist, too, at the state college. This, if you stop, you stop 90% of the corruption in local self-government. So much for me. So these are my suggestions, these are my references to the dangers that are hidden in these laws, and on the day of the vote, of course, I will vote for this law, because this is a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22022	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. (The National MP Marija Janjušević addresses the president directly: Double Archini, when are you going to stop? You can't stop. (Maria Janjušević: So you have double arches. So Miladin Chevarlic isn't here. Your arm's shaking, take it easy. He's shaking. Miladin Chevarlic isn't here. So... (Maria Janjušević: I know you would love it, but I don't shake my hand. I wouldn't like anything right now. Miladin Chevarlic isn't here. It's all right. So the Dverry parliamentary group has no more time. According to the list, Dalibor Radicevic. Does he want to talk? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22023	The Honorable Presidents, gentlemen of the Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are today before us four laws. In my presentation, I will refer to the proposal for a law on electronic document, electronic identification and services of trust in electronic business. We are in a century where electronic business has reached such a level that daily life is more unimaginable without the help of computers, e-mails, electronic banking. The law we are talking about today aims to enable faster and more efficient business with a reduction in the cost of business, modernisation and more efficient work of public authorities, as well as easier and safer access to services provided by public authorities by electronic means. This law will allow faster and more efficient business. The time it takes to do a certain job, and what bothers all of us, will be reduced, there will be no need for us to go from the counter to the counter and waste time needlessly. In order to contribute to the modernisation and efficiency of the work of the authorities, the law regulates the following areas: electronic document, electronic identification of trust services, electronic signature, electronic stamp, time stamp, electronic delivery, web site authentication, as well as electronic document keeping. All these areas are detailed in this law, so I can freely say that we have a good law in front of us that is equally important for citizens, businesses, government, local self-government and other entities. The application of this law will allow, not only to save time and money, to make progress in the international situation. The application of this law will be slow and difficult, but we all understand the necessity of applying such legal solutions. To facilitate the application of this law, as well as any future legal solutions, today we are also discussing the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration. The goal of the National Academy is to train unspecified employees in the state administration and local self-government to train them professionally for all the jobs in their work. Given that we often have amendments to the rules and all in order to comply with the legislation and procedures in our country, legislation and procedures of EU member states. Given that the legal solutions ahead allow us to modernise and catch up with developed countries, in the voting day, I will support the bill's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22024	It's Alexandra Mike's turn now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22025	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, honourable MPs and MPs, respected ministers and representatives of the ministry, are four laws ahead of us today, although from two different ministries, we can say that they have the same objectives, which are the modernisation and more efficient work of the public administration body, easier access to public administration services, reduction of the operating costs of public administration authorities, and, also, the business sector and citizens associated with public administration bodies, and more efficient and more polite and better-oriented officials. What had to precede the adoption of these laws, which we can say was very brave to do, is to pass a law on the maximum number of public sector employees, so we can say that for 37,900 is less and employed in public administration since the end of 2013, and including public enterprises, it is 80,000 people. Although, we can say, that was kind of hard, because again, it's about people's lives, we have to say that it was necessary for the administration to be effective and tailored to the needs of citizens today. It certainly made savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget, so we can say that in 2016, 43m euros have been saved, and more than 100m euros have been saved since May 2013. What will facilitate the implementation of these laws that are today ahead of us, and in general the law relating to public administration reform, is that the EU budget provides 80m euros, which will be spent for the period from 2016 to 2018 on state administration reform, all thanks to the presented results of a comprehensive reform that took place in the previous few years in the bodies of the state administration. What is important and what is new is being regulated by these laws, and above all, the establishment of the National Academy, and then, for the first time, the education of civil servants at all levels, both at the state and at the local level, is being introduced for all those who are employed in the state administration and so on for the executives, because we all come less from local self-government. We know here about what the state of local self-government is, and we can say that a lot of young people employed in the state administration don't have much to learn, so the education of those who operate in the state administration is important for both themselves and those who learn from them. These laws also introduce education, i.e. training for technical skills, i.e. for administrative procedures, knowledge of the work of the administration, as well as so-called soft skills that are very important for working in all bodies, as well as bodies in state administrations, such as communication, project leadership. For the first time, these laws have been regulated by electronic security, electronic delivery and electronic seal. All these reforms will not go easily, first of all, because many and sublegal acts and other laws need to be agreed on in the next few days, and also because of the human factor. We introduced an electronic assembly in Kikinda at the end of 2013, which is that the material is delivered by the city's electronics and we can say that at first there were little problems, primarily because of the human factor and those people who were in the city administration, they worked in the secretariat for 20-30 years, and that the problem was that they were now electronically delivering material, but we can say that, first of all, it saved time because it was much faster to send an e-mail than the one going from man to man to deliver that material, and also that there was savings in the budget of Kickinda. Also, one example, and for example, the Anti-Corruption Agency, which we have led some controversy about in the previous days, namely, how much do you want to report the property to the Anti-Corruption Agency, first you need to fill in an e-mail containing your personal data, including your personal home number, after you e-mail you get the bar code, you need to sign that document and send it to the Anti-Corruption Agency or personally take it away. What, if he's already sent to the e-mail, I don't see why he should be sent in person or in the mail? So I believe that this gap will also be in line with the new law that we need to adopt in the next few days. What is basic, regardless of some of the criticisms that have been referred to the previous days of this law, is - whether citizens are satisfied with the work of public administration authorities, I think they are not, and therefore it is very important that management and officials have to catch up with flows, to respond to the request of the private sector and citizens. This reform is necessary. Reforms are also working on much more developed countries, so we must do so in Serbia, so full support for the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22026	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22027	The chairman, you've been in violation of article 108 for 20 minutes, where it says that the regular session of the National Assembly is the former president of the Assembly. There's no point in having a session like this. You've got all kinds of people coming up to you. They're suffling something. They're suggesting something.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22028	You have a warning. "What kind of people" are MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22029	They have no right. Where does it say they have the right to approach you and advise you? There's no point in keeping it here anymore. The best thing to do is to disband the congregation, because there's no point in working in this kind of a congregation anymore. What right do ordinary people's messengers have to approach you? (Maria Janjušević: I am also an MP, and I have rights. Let me say the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22030	I can't, I can't give you your letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22031	It doesn't make sense. (Maria Janjušević: Abort session. How come they have the right to approach you, to bring you cell phones and this. What's this? Well, people laugh at what you do. The whole country is laughing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22032	They're laughing at you, MP. You've been making a circus for days.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22033	You've seduced the dictatorship. No one can say anything in this assembly. (Maria Janjušević: I too have my rights. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22034	Do you see what he's doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22035	Well, it should work for you when you act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22036	Don't do this, MPs. What are you doing? Well, she's a woman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22037	You gave Bosko Obradovic two warnings, Srdjana three yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22038	What are you doing? Why are you trying to get her to do this stuff, to bring in rocks, to make a mess here? A woman shakes here whenever she approaches. He's picking up a microphone. Well, it's not my microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22039	Here, see what you've been doing for a year, the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22040	Ambassador, thank you. If it's not working for you...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22041	No, it doesn't make sense. Disband the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22042	Abuse of the Rules of Procedure's injuries so you can talk here whatever you want. I'm extremely intolerant. (Maria Janjušević: I find you intolerant. ) Here, MP Maria Janjusevic has a stand-up show here, and I don't know what she's got. We're here to work. If it's not working for you and if the Dverry Group wants to... (Maria Janjušević: You do not allow the opposition to say what he has. You're not the opposition, you're nothing right now. (Maria Janjušević: I am nothing? Thank you, Chairman, for telling me I was nothing. You don't have to apologize. All right. Is this part over now? (Maria Janjusevic: I hope that the Women's Parliamentary Network will condemn such sexism in the hall. ) Okay, we stopped at Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22043	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, we have very important laws ahead of us. These are four laws that are, in fact, the strategic definition and definition of the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose prime minister was Aleksandar Vukic, for further rationalisation, for further more efficient public administration, and for further improving the quality of the accessibility of these services by citizens and by the economy. First of all, I have to point out that knowledge is the highest value of the 21st century. Of course, when we finish our education, many of these skills are already being overcome, and that is why we need to keep working on improving our knowledge, our skills, our competences throughout our lives. One of the laws that just implies continuous training and continuous improvement of knowledge and skills is the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Civil Servants, which is in a causal and consequential relationship with another law, as regards the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration. In fact, I want to point out that for efficiency, for economic reasons, to save time for citizens, but also savings in the economy of public administration should be effective and be a real and true service for citizens. What I want to point out is that it is a continuous education, i.e. continuous acquisition of additional knowledge and skills of civil servants, which is particularly relevant from the aspect of equal access in the administrative matters of citizens, regardless of which city, from which municipalities and what state authority they address. This equality in the treatment of the same legal matters, of course, is achieved through the acquisition of additional knowledge and training of civil servants, concerning issues and administrative procedures and the development of an administrative act and additional knowledge and skills relating to the prevention of corruption and financial management, as well as, of course, issues concerning and respect for human rights. What I particularly want to point out is that this law provides for training for executives. Why is that significant? It is very important for the adequate management and management of the full work process, but also for improving the quality of work of each state body, because in this way citizens will be made available in an efficient and quality way by state authorities, i.e. in a more efficient way, their rights will be met. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, according to a 2016 survey, has shown the largest openness index among the Western Balkan countries, and in fact how open it is to citizens and society in general. Of course, I would like to stress that, by analysing the accessibility index, this openness relationship refers to openness to citizens and their involvement in public debates, in round tables, when the legislation is passed, it is almost 100%. When it comes to the criteria of integrity, it is almost, and it is about preventing corruption, it concerns further evaluation of the Ethics Code of Officers, also at an envious level and almost 100%. I'd also like to say something about open data, which is this data that is used in electronic form. In fact, these are data that are suitable for computer processing and exchange via the Internet. Open data in modern countries of the world – they are referred to as new oil, because they are the driver and initiator of many social changes, i.e. raising and standards of citizens, as well as raising the capacity of the entire state. In Voting Day, the Serbian Progressive Party will support all proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22044	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22045	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will talk about the Bill on the National Academy of Public Administration, whose basis is the establishment of a National Academy as a central institution for professional training of public administration employees. So far, there has been no systemic approach in the Republic of Serbia to address the issue of professional training of public administration employees. The competence in the area of professional training of civil servants in the adoption and implementation of the professional training programme has been achieved by several bodies and organisations, as well as by government services, and it was therefore necessary to ensure a comprehensive system of professional training of public administration employees, which is precisely achieved by this draft law. The fact is that public administration employees do not achieve the same level of professional training, resulting in an insufficient level of knowledge and ability of public administration employees, and thus a insufficiently efficient administration. The establishment of bodies in the system of state administration, which will give equal right to all to professional training, but also to the training of bodies and public administration organisations, will achieve the general objective of reforming public administrations, which implies high quality of services to citizens and economic operators. The establishment of the National Public Administration Academy has been defined by the Public Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Professional Training Strategy of Civil Servants in the Republic of Serbia, and by the reputation of other countries that have good practice, related to the area of professional training. Almost all EU member states have one central institution dealing with the issue of professional training of employees, and in most countries, the central institution has the character of a legal person, and it is supervised by the competent ministry or the government itself. This bill provides for the National Academy to be established as a special institution, which has legal personality, which will provide it with the independence and publicly recognised organiser of the activities of informal adult education, and supervision will be carried out by the competent ministry, in this case by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The National Academy is organized so that it has special professional working bodies, software advice and permanent programming committees and we have heard enough about the composition of these professional bodies in previous exhibitions. What is important is that these bodies are composed of experts who will help with their knowledge and experience to achieve the key objectives of the establishment of the National Public Administration Academy. Given that all public administration employees are given equal opportunities for professional training, a high degree of competence will be achieved and thus we will get public administration in the service of citizens and businesses, because modern public administration is actually a service of citizens, capable of providing businesses and citizens with the necessary level of services. A unique assessment of all stakeholders in the preparation of this law, i.e. of all representatives of bodies whose work is linked to this law, and above all to the state authorities and then to the non-governmental sector, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, the National Alliance for Local and Economic Development, as well as the professional public, but also the public administration staff themselves who participated, was necessary to form a central institution for professional training of employees in Serbia. The reform of the state administration is an essential condition for the success of the reform of all other segments of society and is in an unbreakable relationship with them and therefore I call on you to support this bill in the voting day, as well as all the other laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22046	Thank you. The word has a national letter from Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22047	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a whole set of important bill proposals on the agenda today, but I would like to focus on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. Given the importance of the matter that this law regulates, we can freely say that the amendments to the laws that give great attention to both the professional public and the wider audience, which is certainly understandable, since citizens often have problems with the tromic and inefficient administration and the services it provides. In order to create an effective and efficient state administration in the service of citizens and businesses, a complete and clear legal framework must be created, which will act on the basic cause of unquality doing business, which is a low level of expertise in these modern conditions. Therefore, the professional development of civil servants and their professional training have special importance in solving the identified problems in the functioning of the administration. Why does it matter? Therefore, officials must continuously acquire competences and skills in order to carry out their work responsibilities in a quality way. For example, we've all had the opportunity to see how slow some process is going on that requires, say, computer work, and the clerk on the counter doesn't get along with it, so the lines are increasing, and that's how chaos occurs. Given that the state-run official system of the Republic of Serbia is a relatively closed system in which it is primarily based on personnel located within that system since the very beginning of its career, professional training of officials, both those in unmanageable positions and those in management positions, but also state authorities, the level of efficiency of the entire system is significantly increased. It is clear how much quality services will improve towards citizens when everyone in their workplace is professional in what they do. What else is foreseen by this bill? The possibility of officials being able to change positions within the body or service, with the consent of the manager, is foreseen. In addition to facilitating the functioning of the service, this solution achieves a more consistent achievement of the principle of equal availability of jobs and thus contributes to the development of public administration professionalisation. All in all, one good law and I ask my fellow Members to support a whole set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22048	The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22049	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, first of all, I would like to express the satisfaction of the quality of the material that we have received and which contains all relevant arguments and elements that make the proposed laws affirmative and I am sure that it will be adopted in the day to vote. However, in my further presentation, I would like to refer briefly to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants and Part of the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration. The basic strength of every society is predominantly human resources, i.e. people whose abilities, knowledge and skills depend on progress in all areas of society. Generally speaking, dealing with human resources in recent decades has been significantly evaluating. At the beginning of the last century, it prevailed over the importance of technology and absolute indifference to human needs and specificities. Today, it is no doubt that in light of the new organisational and technological conditions, changes cannot be realised without a precise, comprehensive knowledge of human resources. Man is no longer a marginal organisational resource, but a significant source of new value. Starting from the above, public administration reform is a lasting process and is a particularly important condition in modern conditions for the successful implementation of reform principles and objectives in all areas of society. The overall aim of the reform is to further improve public administration, which will provide high quality services to citizens and business entities, and I would set out from a number of specific objectives: establishing a harmonised public notary system based on merits and improving human resources management, increasing legal certainty and improving the business environment and quality of public service provision and strengthening transparency, ethics and accountability in public administration operations. Realisation of the stated objectives expressed in the Public Administration Strategy in the Republic of Serbia is not possible without professional training of employees as a permanent process through the creation of a new legal framework through changes and addition of regulations and the adoption of new ones. It is precisely in this direction that the proposed laws are going to ensure that the level of knowledge and skills of the state authorities is raised. The bill represents an improvement of the system of professional training of civil servants and of the action plan for its implementation. Based on the current legal rules and identified problems, the proposed laws should address the following problems. Through the formation of the National Public Administration Academy, a central institution of professional training in the public administration of the Republic of Serbia is obtained by precision of the scope and type of authority in the business of professional training of civil servants. Also, the draft legislation sets out professional training programmes to be systematised through several forms. Also, the existing legal framework almost does not address the issue of criteria, criteria and ways of identifying the need for professional training, which goes beyond new law proposals. The limitting provisions of the existing law also apply to who implements the professional training of civil servants. This bill removes these barriers and determines who can be a lecturer, i.e. trainer, selection and accreditation conditions, competences to conduct the selection process, fees for their work and how to register and manage the permanent list of lecturers. The relevant law does not regulate the question of the verification of the professional training programme, so the amendments and additions to the provisions of Article 97k are provided for to issue, for all professional training programmes accredited by the National Academy, assurance to the user of the programme, and, if the knowledge is carried out and verified, then the assurance of the success achieved shall be issued. Finally, this proposal is based on compliance with the provisions of the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government with regard to how to fill jobs in state bodies through transfer. The proposed amendments and additions to the Civil Service Act achieve a general objective relating to ensuring integrity, comprehensiveness and sustainability of knowledge and skills of civil servants and more specific objectives relating to improving the right to professional training, improving the quality and effectiveness of professional training, improving the efficiency of the professional training process. In the expectation that all these objectives will be met, I will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22050	The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22051	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Servants and a bill on the National Academy of Public Administration. The objectives that we pursue as a modern society and reforms that follow our society include changes and additions to existing laws and the adoption of new and significant laws that will contribute to a faster and more effective solution to the existing problems and difficulties we face. The key principle for the overall improvement of the state administration is its professionalisation, raising the level of expertise and ability of civil servants from a particular impact on the successful and quality performance of jobs, changing working methods and organising culture in modern conditions. In this respect, organised and continuous professional development of civil servants and public administration employees is based on real needs and opportunities and has special significance. The system of professional training, in addition to the planned selection of staff, evaluation, award and promotion, is one of the key elements and contributes significantly to the accelerated process of European integration and meeting the criteria for establishing a modern and professional state administration system. Taking into account the obligation of the State Administration to co-operate with each other on common issues, the only other authorities shall give the notices they need for work, so that the National Academy should ensure and achieve co-operation with all public administration structures, in a more economical way, to exercise its rights and obligations of professional training. The application of the law has a positive impact on citizens and the economy and since the process of professional training should contribute to a better and more efficient provision of services, economics, stability and raising of living standards. Although some MPs, unfortunately, here think that they are professionally perfecting and bringing stone to the Assembly, and this stone that comes from KIM, they can say that Serbs in KIM know that Serbia is institutionally present there through the system of education, health care, local self-government, cultural institutions, and these laws apply in places as well, and Serbian citizens know perfectly well that they are perfecting other methods and principles and respecting their president and government and know that they are making decisions and who they trust. In voting day, I will uphold the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22052	The word has a folk MP, Ivana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22053	Thank you. Dear Ministers, distinguished representatives of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a set of good bill proposals, and I will pay special attention to the bill of law, which in one systematic way regulates several very important areas of society in today's society, which is the proposal for a law on electronic element, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business. Such a bill is indeed an organised and comprehensive approach to emerging situations in one system, in one society, and all in order to address the shortcomings observed by the application of the laws. Of course, here I must immediately say that, given the way changes take place in the way modern technologies work, it is necessary that the law be flexible in order to move forward with the challenges that modern society poses. I'm sure for Serbia, electronic business is a developmental opportunity. The intention is, of course, to monitor developed systems, to use experience from developed European countries with good business systems, which aim to enable faster and more efficient business, to reduce business costs, to provide better services to citizens and to ensure that there is safe and cheap document keeping. Digitalisation of documents achieves greater accessibility to documents, provides easier search, use and publication of documents, as well as access to information of public importance. I would add that it is an excellent example of how digitisation affects the development of the country of Estonia. I had the opportunity to stay in that country recently, in a country of digitization, which records positive results and benefits from the application of modern technology in business. For example, a citizen with his ID card not only owns personal data, but can also use it to pay public transportation through that card, to have a health card, to have children in school in grades. Thus, the number of departures to various institutions is reduced, the number of use of unnecessary paper is reduced, costs are being spent and time is being saved. I would like to point out that these proposals for legislation on the agenda today achieve the continuity of the work of the previous government, especially in these areas, the emphasis is on the comprehensive reform of public administration. However, the use of electronic services in Serbia remains unsatisfactory, although growth is recorded. Serbia is heading towards resolving these problems with several of its moves, such as, among other things, the adoption of these laws, the inclusion of electronic business in the National Strategy for the Development of the Information Society, as well as the e-Government project. I would also point out that the draft laws on the agenda, and from the domain of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, are necessary for the law I was talking about to be applicable. I think it is very important to establish a permanent, sustainable system of security and professional training of civil servants and to continuously improve their skills and skills. At the very end, I would like to say that in order to remove the perceived shortcomings and to record the best results, I will definitely support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22054	Olivera Ognjanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22055	Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I come from the Municipality of Grock where, in the last few years, with the great efforts of municipal leadership, a new municipal department for the northern part of the municipality and several postal offices has been opened to allow citizens to get the necessary documents faster and easier. This is why I am going to talk today about amending the Information Security Act and the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business. The fact is that these two laws are closely linked, i.e. to each other, because it is essential that the highest levels of data protection and information systems are provided through an electronic business reform. In order to improve the detection of high-tech crime, and in accordance with international standards and regulations in the field of information security, other than the training of civil servants and employees in the state administration, this law also provides for a range of protection measures, as well as the responsibilities of legal persons when using, managing and using information and communication systems. What is, of course, the goal is to achieve, in addition to increasing security protection in these systems, a parallel increase in citizens' and institutions' awareness of the dangers in these areas. Also, we are witnessing that all countries of the world, including Serbia, are facing this kind of problem, which means we are struggling with a kind of global problem. So it means that the security of information systems and the takeover of standards that already exist are, in fact, the only way to reduce the risks of counterfeiting and abuse in this area. The question arises what will the paper bring us in electronic business? Citizens are able to feel big changes already today to extract some document, and now we will have public services of an even better quality, which will further simplify communication between state administration, economy and citizens. It will bring us cheaper and easier access to public administration services, bring us growth of the ICT sector, as one of the sectors that records the largest growth, the fastest and makes over 10% of the total GDP. It is absolutely necessary to accept electronic acts as legally credible and binding. Serbia is now allowing citizens and legal persons to complete complex bureaucratic procedures without any paper through this digitalisation process. The e-business law introduces a qualified electronic signature, which, by simple procedure, will replace the complicated procedure of the present electronic signature, introduce an electronic document, which is equidistant with a paper document. We're introducing an electronic signature, which is extremely important for legal persons. We introduce electronic delivery and electronic document storage, which is very important because of the savings of large costs of archiving, i.e. keeping documents. The result of these newspapers will bring a lot of savings to citizens in time and relief from stress, walking from counter to counter, collecting documents, extensive paperwork, paying bills slowly going into history. Thanks to changes to the rules, economic operators will achieve serious financial savings, not only for the purpose of obtaining documents, but also for printing documents. In conclusion, I would like to say that these draft laws show a serious and committed work by our government, which allows Serbia to go further on the development path towards meeting European and world trends in the field of information security and electronic business. That's why I commend you, and in the voting day, I will support all the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22056	The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22057	I thank the esteemed chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my great pleasure to hear today that a lot of MPs have been focusing today on the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration and I will say something about it. I'll try not to repeat myself and make it brief. First of all, I would say that I will talk about this bill not only for the reason that I would always put the profession first, but for the reason that, by applying the provisions of this law, a primate will be given expertise and professionalism, and that ultimately, with the more efficient work of civil servants, it will be for the benefit of citizens only. The legal framework governing this matter is diverse, which is precisely due to one general non-systemic approach to the problem of professional training of public administration employees. We now have several different state authorities and more government services in the area of professional training of public officials. Also, employees do not achieve the same amount of professional training, which also leads to an understanding of knowledge and skills acquired by state administration employees, but ultimately costs are being incurred for a country that is growing, so that costs are then disproportionate to the effects of improvement. Today, trends in professional training in the public administration include the process of improving existing knowledge, gaining new knowledge and skills, and all to ensure legality, competence in work and integrity in performing public administration jobs. I would like to remind you of one paradox, which is that this problem was solved only during the government of Aleksandr Vukic and now during this government of Ana Brnabic. So much has been said before about the need to modernize public administration in this regard. Even when the Constitution was adopted in 2006, citizens, businessmen and international partners were promised that Serbia would be modern, a European country in which the law rules. If that had happened then, we wouldn't have had a chance to talk about it right now. Also, by 2012, nothing was done, or only what was done was done contrary to the promises made to the citizens and what the citizens really needed. Today, Serbia in the area of professional training of employees has drawn close to the countries that have developed to the end. As good examples of practice, I would take France and Hungary. Hungary for the reason these institutions became part of the military and police academy. In the end, I'd just say that this law is expected to happen. First of all, it will have a positive impact on all users of the National Academy services employed by state authorities, in local self-government units, in companies, institutions entrusted with public authority. It will also have a positive impact on higher education institutions, scientific and research organisations, and on the great and positive impact of the law that will apply to citizens and businesses, I think it is too high at this point. For all of this, I would like to invite my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22058	Thank you. There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. (Maria Janjušević: There are reported. Let the Dwarry talk. ) Can you hold on much longer? (Maria Janjušević: Yes, I can. All right. Go on. (Maria Janjušević: As long as you need to start respecting the law. Come on, don't yell, let me work. Do they want the word of the president, or authorized... Not you. You haven't learned yet, you can't do that. I'm not doing it, neither are you.(Maria Janjušević: Don't work. Of course you're not doing what needs to be done. Respect the Rules of Procedure. That's all I ask. It's a little boring, you're repeating yourself. (Maria Janjušević: You do not have the same arches. Let's keep working. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 96? Rules of Procedure? (Maria Janjušević: Yesterday you threw people out because of much worse things. Don't be a pain in the ass. (Maria Janjušević: I am not yelling at all, I am using my right. Now all MPs have the right to behave like this without being thrown out. Are you aware of that? I'm aware of that, yes, as soon as I let you go. Goran Ciric, come in. (Maria Janjušević: I am watching and how you prepare to dirty me, to rub me, to listen to you all, as you insult me, throw me away. I'm ready for anything, just to hear from you. I get it. The word has Goran Ciric. (Maria Janjušević: All the lies and slanders you have prepared I am waiting. It's your way of defense when someone defends the truth like I defend it. Respect the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to Ambassador Goran Ciric, who wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22059	And at the beginning of the debate, we talked about the need to strengthen the capacity of institutions, from local self-government through public administration, and obviously to strengthen the capacity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Obviously, this atmosphere shows that we have not been very successful in building the capacities of the National Assembly. The president of the Assembly and the ruling majority bear the greatest responsibility. We, as MPs, must go from our own responsibility. I think it's important that we do something so we can talk about the laws. As we discussed the topic of forming the National Academy, in an attempt to standardise some of the practices in local self-government, I spoke and I think it is important that the Minister of State Administration and local self-government hear it, and above all, Mr. Minister, the need to make a preliminary selection in all local self-government, in public administration, in a way that all people with fake diplomas are discovered, to prevent people from being admitted with fake diplomas, with fake PhDs, and this will be the first contribution to what the Anti-Corruption Agency has been talking about, and that is primarily the job of the National Academy to work on training, ethics and the integrity of people working in public administration. So people are the key resource of every system, every state, especially these institutions, and I think it's the first step. The next step is to select the most successful students and those who can contribute to their quality in this work. Only then is this step that we are talking about, which is still, I think, a good idea, but above all, working on practical solutions because very often we have an example in practice where different local self-governments apply the same laws in a completely different way and, of course, this is not allowed primarily because of their responsibility to citizens living in Serbia. When we talk about the Law on the Electronic Document, the Electronic Security Act, which needs to modernise and provide infrastructure, part of the infrastructure in modernising our country, I think it's one of the key things about security. Exactly, we get, and above all thanks to the technological development of the most developed countries, we put in place new services like the electronic signature, what is the time stamp. We have the way of storage and the ability to preserve an electronic document and strengthen people's trust in the application of an electronic document, but I think it's a very important issue and some of our colleagues have talked about security, in order to have the right security, we need to have trained people, and with the reduction of the salaries of IT engineers, people who work in public administration and who can't resist the safer offers of private companies, where there are multiple higher salaries, we won't have a sustainable system in the state, nor will we be able to build a sustainable system in which we have a high level of security in the IT sector. Another important thing is the attitude of the DS that I've repeated here many times. It's a matter of infrastructure, it's a question and servers, it's a question and telecommunications networks and how to control and how to manage a telecommunications network. What happens tomorrow to the large number of solutions implemented by the state administration if it is going to privatise telecommunications infrastructure and when the telecommunications infrastructure is managed by a foreign company? I think it is important to point out that even if it is going to privatise public systems and systems whose state owns it needs to separate infrastructure from operations and should insist that the state remains a majority owner with a minimum 51% of the infrastructure ownership in order to safeguard security in such an important sector. So these are our thoughts, and I would like this debate to bring forward a reaction from the ministers, especially on these issues and topics that MPs have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22060	You've wasted your group time. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Radojicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22061	I refer to Article 107(2). – at a session of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People's Parliament, to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to etc. ... Article 112, then I will explain - if the president of the National Assembly cannot hold the session regularly, he will set a break until the work is in place. My colleague, Maria Janjusevic, was recently addressed in a very ugly way by some MPs, obtaining her, insulting her, cursing her. She has the right to her political position. He has a right to explain it. Please don't insult me. We can't expect any of this. Yesterday, we were deprived of time from the time of our parliamentary group when we asked questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22062	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22063	If you are unable to hold a session, withdraw, resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22064	Thank you. If you are unable to be an MP, I expect the same, to restore your mandate to the citizens of Serbia. Does anyone else appear under article 96 before the conclusion, and that he has time left, that he's head of the parliamentary group, that he's authorized, etc., since I can see there's also ignorance after months and months of work? Based on this and in the time left only Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22065	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Orthodox and as a believer, I beg your understanding of my colleague. I must tell you that I will speak in these conditions that are not quite normal precisely because a woman comes from my city. Please give her her cabbage stone back. Don't laugh. I apologize to Bosca Obradovic. We thought it was his stone. But it's not. You must understand that Orthodox believers, especially women, keep their word. Without a scarf, he won't go to church, say, and if he's...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22066	MP, please on the agenda. Let it go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22067	It's the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22068	Come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22069	Please understand for a public servant from India who has been involved in his time... (Maria Janjušević:...) Are you going to let me get dirty now because... ..... as a U.S.ID surveyor. Please understand her.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22070	Ambassador, I apologize deeply to you. I have to speak to Maria Janjusevic this time after such a long time, according to article 111 of the distance from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22071	I'm asking for your understanding. (Maria Janjušević: Take me away from the session. I'm not touching you. Don't lie that I spit on you, cursed you or anything else... )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22072	Calm down. Let me work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22073	I'm totally calm.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22074	Okay. You're holding a meeting of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22075	The second day in a row you interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22076	... and with regard to Article 109...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22077	So, please, get me out of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22078	... As I came across an understanding of a MP whose time is left, I conclude a joint principled search of the bill's proposals...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22079	It's a surrender. It's a surrender. It's a surrender.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22080	... The shame really, the law of point 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22081	And violence against the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22082	Dear Members of Parliament, you will have to understand that it is very difficult to hold a session when we have MPs like this who...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22083	To respect the Rules of Procedure, it's not hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-06-0.u22084	We'll continue our work, just to finish our consultations with the ministers when we can continue our work. We have another point. We have another agenda point. So Monday at 10:00. Thank you very much and thank you for understanding today's work.
