ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the third session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 143 MPs are present in the hall, and I find that we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15365	Good afternoon. Respect, I have a few specific questions that concern life this time. Serbia is once again fueled by the city and I have a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the prime minister, because there is no competent ministry that could address the issue, and under b) for the Emergency Sector at the MUP, what is being done to finally protect Serbia from this. So, the city has decimated all over Serbia, it's not written, and it's not interested in our media and our tabloids, but it's interested in the citizens of Serbia before, which, as we know the city is a natural disaster, but also in the disease of cholera, goddesses, plagues are also a natural phenomenon, and as they treat, re-vaccinate and prevent. So I ask very clearly the competent bodies and organs. What about the anti-urban protection system? Why isn't it working? What about remote defense from the city? Is it true that the government broke up or did not extend or implement the contract with our domestic producer "Treal" from Kruševac, who works these systems and provides anti-urban protection, we heroise and boast about airplanes, trucks and systems that we get and that we get for expensive money from which there is basically nothing. My question is why not invest some of that money in domestic production, in a domestic company that provides protection to domestic agricultural producers exposed to this elemental disaster. The second issue concerns the recent incident, in fact yesterday's incident with Benar Henri Levi, who visited Belgrade and who experienced the incident last night in Belgrade. My question concerns the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior and their address, whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs knew that Mr. Benrar Henri Levi was coming to Belgrade, whether he had any attitude over this visit and whether it was possible that he did not know, and if he knew, knowing, and the viewers did not have to know, it was about one of the famous, most expensive Serbs, a man who actively supported not only the bombing of Serbia in 1999 but also all anti-Serbian projects and ventures and is an active lobbyist of Kosovo Albanians. With this, in my opinion, the person should have been denied the right to stay in Serbia and Belgrade or should have been given adequate protection, not to be given now after this incident and the cake he received in person, now he further strengthens his propaganda and his agitation, criticising power and not only power, I criticise power, but criticising the people of Serbia and calling us for it. So, my question, did the Foreign Ministry know why Bernard Henri Levi wasn't declared a nongratite person in Serbia? I think he deserves to be declared an unwanted person in Serbia. Especially in this context, why not put Tony Blair on the list, who was only coming to Serbia, but was recently on the post of Serbian government advisers. In that sense, I condemn you, of course, every incident and every call, and every attack on anyone in this country, but on the other hand, I also think that there is a basis for the responsibility of our competent authorities for either staying awake or something worse than that, that they allowed a person like Benar Henri Levia or a person like Tony Blair to come to Belgrade to visit Belgrade, and that he could eventually present himself as a victim.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15368	Thank you. The government doesn't send biographies, there's a second proposing candidate for the judicial sector, you know that's not what the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15369	I speak in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15370	That's the appeal you're gonna make to someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15371	I'm talking in principle about all the suggestions that are coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15372	Thank you for your suggestions. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15373	I would like to thank the Honorable President. I would ask the question of "Serbian Railways", or "Serbian Train", is about the railway, part of the railroad, which goes from the Red Cross to Nis, via Svrljag, Knjižvec, Zaječar, Bora, to the Prahova, and I can say, because I will go back a little bit, to remind everyone, it is a railway that is very important for the east of Serbia. The railroad was built, the start of construction began in 1907, so 110 years have passed since the railway began to be built. Everyone knew how important this railroad is for the east of Serbia. We have a situation that this section of the railroad has begun to fail since 1996. More than 2,000 people were employed in that section of the railway, and up to today there are some 800 workers who maintain and work that section of the railway. We are witnessing the collapse of this section of the railway, and the biggest and worst thing was in 2007, when then the government, at the initiative of the then director of the Railways of Serbia, set out to shut down that section of the railway, from Nis, Svrljig, Knjižvac, Zaječar, Bora towards the port of Prahovo. So that's when the initiative started to shut down that part of the railroad, to stop the relations of the passenger trains that went there, and that's how they wanted to damage a large number of citizens whose only possibility is that they could go to a certain center, city, municipality or village. At that time, a large number of municipalities gravitating in that part of the rebellion proved to be wrong and the initiative was halted. That was bad, but even to this day, that railroad is still being held badly, in a very bad state. Everything was going, as they say, on the hand of the railroad to shut down. Is it because of the inability of people working in the Serbian Railways, people who are from that part of Serbia who do not have the opportunity to lobby that section of the railroad more and better maintained, perhaps that is the solution. Earlier last year, at the end of 2015, there was an initiative by Serbia – a train, which is the company responsible for the transport of passengers, to close that section of the railway again, to shut down that trains, or passengers should not go there. I can say that according to the number of inhabitants, according to the territory, it is a very important item and that a large number of passengers travel by train because they have no other choice of transportation. One more thing, that piece of Nis railroad, through Svrljig, Književci, Zaječar, according to Prahovo, is very important for freight traffic, because large quantities of goods go from Svrlig, from Bor to Prahovo. The port in Prahovo is packed with goods. So it's very important because of the railways, because of the development of our Serbia to rebuild that section of the railway, to reconstruct, to rebuild the thresholds and to give a much greater emphasis on that part of our railway in the coming period. So I say and call, and my question is to the competent ministry, the Serbian Railways, the "Serbian train", whether more funds will be invested for the remounted railways, for the repair of the thresholds, for the rebuilding of trains, if we know that "Swedenka", a train that has communicated very active, a very large number of people travel by train, now we have a Russian train, which is very pleasant and good, but it is also a big problem for people, passengers who travel by train, conductors don't charge them tickets, but they put that money in their pocket. This is not good because of road traffic because a large number of people now go free and thus damage Serbia's Railway. I call and ask the authorities in the Serbian Railways to include the railway from Nis, Svrljig, Književec, Zaječar, Bora towards Prahov, to be placed in reconstruction, to be reconstructed, to fix the thresholds, to introduce order and by chance we must not allow this armrail to be halted by road traffic for passengers because it is a vein of housekeeping for all of us who live in that part. I call on people in the Serbian Railways to take this initiative seriously, this proposal to do a reconstruction of this section of the railway, because I repeat once again that it is very important to have a large number of freight traffic done there, to transport and dangerous materials...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15374	Thank you. Your time has passed. The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15375	Thank you, President. I ask my first question to the Ministry of Labour and Employment and Combat Affairs, Aleksandra Vulina and the minister without portfolio, in charge of demographics, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Our colleague, Marko Djurisic, has repeatedly asked the question of when will the financial support law be included in the agenda? It hasn't happened yet. I ask why for the third year since this law was to be passed, and not only in the assembly procedure, it hasn't been adopted, it hasn't even entered the procedure. I ask the Minister, Alexander Vulin, why this law has not been passed, because many families depend on the law, wait for the law to be passed, the foster parents wait for their status to be resolved, etc. There are very many users of young families and in general, families waiting for that law to be passed. I ask if the story of the Financial Support Act to families is just a pre-election promise and in that name the law is only used in a pre-election campaign. With this law, the right to maternity benefits would also be given to farmers, and also to women who have been engaged in work under a contract of work and copyright. The law would also regulate a parental supplement, as well as a value added tax that was abolished at the end of 2016. I ask Minister Vulin and the Minister without portfolio, when will the Financial Support Act enter the procedure and when will it be adopted? I ask the second question to the director of the Agency for Restitution, Strahinj Sekulic, Minister of Agriculture Branislav Nedimovic and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, which refers to the attitude of local powerful men and local tycoons towards state land intended for restitution, which is mainly the case in Vojvodina. I request all the documentation on the bid of state land in the Catastrian municipality of Kula under number 9686/3 for 2015, 2016 and 2017, if it was already auctioned for that year 2017, when was the bidding and to whom was the plot awarded? I'm asking the Restitution Agency to send me a document to which this land is intended for restitution and asking permission to dig wells and all that has been done on that land, which is intended for restitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15378	Thank you. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15379	The Honorable President, dear colleagues, MPs, is helping God to all. I want to ask a few questions of great interest to the citizens of Serbia, first of all, the minister of justice and the minister of work. Has anyone in Serbia ever been responsible for robbery privatisations? How can citizens collect the court disputes they received against employers from failed privatised companies, who robbed them and owe them to them on various grounds? Why didn't those who robbed the privatized companies and the missing take away their property and pay off the robbed workers? Why has the government not been allowed for five years to pass a law on the origin of all politicians and tycoon's assets from 1990 to today? How many years has it taken this authority to pass a law on the origin of property, given that leaving the prime minister a year ago in his exposé again promised to pass that law, and that law is missing? Why have we not been contacted for two months by any competent state authority, even though we have publicly released a series of secret audio recordings of talks by members of the political mafia in the Dverlix affair? Who protects the political mafia in Serbia? Is it normal and is it possible at all that the convicted Zoran Ćopic can launder money from drug trafficking, for which he has been convicted, alone, or cannot do so without the help of certain people in the police, prosecutors, courts, business banks and high political positions, who have actually helped him and protected him in the laundering of mob couples from drug trafficking? Does the National Bank of Serbia use cash deposits that actually stem from drug trafficking in Serbia? The second issue concerns the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in the resignation or departure of Alexander Vukic. Why is Serbia the only country in the environment in Europe that has not solved the problem of its over-indebted citizens, who are slaved by green thieves' loans indexed in Swiss francs? Perhaps, Madam Chairman, none of the MPs are interested in this topic, so you hear this kind of fire, and you don't remind them that they should calm down a little bit and pay attention to the presentation of fellow Members of the People's Parliament, but 20 thousand families in Serbia, and how interested is it when this government is going to solve the credit problem indexed in the Swiss francs? Why else are loans in foreign currencies, not in dinars, and how long will Serbian citizens be robbed on currency clauses? When banks in Serbia will be punished, this is particularly important and I believe that even you, fellow MPs, and I am sure that it is also interested in your voters, when banks in Serbia will be punished for unfair business practices and looting Serbian citizens at imaginary costs for processing credits, maintaining bills, various fees and other hidden fees, based on which banks made a profit of 61m euros in 2015 alone? When will the citizens of Serbia be legally protected from banking terror, or when will a law on protection and over-indebted families be passed that would mean protecting the family home from taking away from private perpetrators in the event of a declaration of personal bankruptcy? Why did the government bring in a regulation on the sale of remaining domestic state-owned banks? Is it normal for banks in Serbia to make twice as much profit in the past 2016? Believe it or not, fellow MPs, the banks made twice as much profit in 2016 as in 2015 in the time of the crisis in Serbia. Will this government further tax them? When will the democratic alliance be revived, who should be led by Aleksandar Vukic, and what will be the state function for Alexander Vukic? Can you give me a country in the world where the Prime Minister is the co-ordinator of all security services? Is the "Belgrade on Water" project planning to build the largest mosque in the Balkans? And what is particularly relevant these days are the famous "Daners" payment cards and according to which law "Diners" issued payment cards by 2016, because only then did it get permission from the National Bank of Serbia? So how could a DOO issue a payment card if it wasn't a bank? A question for the governor of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15381	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15382	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, while he is still in office, foreign minister, interior minister, defence minister and trade minister. All of them because in their jurisdiction are issuing permits in the export of weapons from Serbia. The reason for my question is news articles and reports that the weapons produced in Serbia are particularly heavy rifle machine guns, "Coyote", produced in Serbia, found themselves in Syria in the hands of the Islamic state fighters. We, honourable fellow MPs, if you have paid attention today, just today, in accordance with the Export and Import Act of Arms and Military Equipment, report for 2015. In this report, you can see that 21 and 490 000 were issued to the Republic of Bulgaria by all these procedures participating in all these $110m ministers and that the countries that are the ultimate beneficiaries of exports from Serbia, alongside the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Uganda, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, the United States, the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Republic of France. Obviously, the system set up in the Republic of Serbia for the control of arms exports is not good, because the weapons produced in Serbia do not end up in the hands of those to whom it was intended. My question for the prime minister is, what does the government do and what does each of these ministers do to improve the system and so that things like this don't happen anymore? I'm not just saying this because Serbia is producing and disrupting security in the world this way. Unfortunately, in conflicts in the world, weapons from whatever side they come from, are well paid and I don't think Serbia should be a beneficiary of that and make a profit on someone's misfortune. Serbia in arms exports, and we hear it all the time, has great potential. Every year, arms exports are increasing and we hear that the government announced, the prime minister, the elected president, however, has announced large investments in the dedicated industry – 74m euros only this year. But with this kind of relationship we risk coming to the blacklist, we risk that the weapons produced in Serbia cannot be legally exported and cannot come to those markets that are intended and thus directly endanger this business branch and the large number of people working there. I know that the end of this government's mandate and that the government in Serbia is about to fall, and I don't know if the ministers will have time, should at least give me an answer to the question in the next 15 days -- what are they doing to make things better, to prevent the next years, weeks, from reading how weapons from Serbia end up illegally on various battlefields in the world? This is also an important issue for these current ministers and prime ministers and for the future prime minister or ministers who head the four ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15383	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. They have a smaller parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15384	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. So, in the last few days, we have seen in public how and in what way the honorary officer Dalibor Karanovic in the media has been crucified in every way, while the internal control of the police and the internal control sector has planted false statements and tried to comply with the demands of Zvezdan Jovanovic, the police officer concerned. Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic did nothing about it. On the contrary, he did everything that Zvezdan Jovanovic asked of him to honor Officer Dalibor Karanovic, not only suspends as he did, but also prosecutes him. I hold in my hand a statement of support from counterpart Dalibor Karanovic, 90 of them who supported their colleague for unwarranted persecution and threats he suffered only because he was doing his job safely. The support was also sent by the Serbian Police Union, as well as the Police Union of Serbia, two trade unions who courageously stood by their counterpart who fought with honor that the law in Serbia must be respected. Which is why the internal police control, according to Zvezdan Jovanovic's orders, tried to file statements for 11 witnesses who, a month later, claimed completely the opposite in front of the prosecutor? Why did the prosecutor, the attorney general, seek his exception? Only because there are pressures on the prosecution and only because at all costs, Zvezdan Jovanovic asks Neboja Stefanovic to be honored by a police officer. How long will Serbia have ministers who match Zvezdan Jovanovic and the Zemun clan? Why did Nebojsa Stefanovic not react when he called police officers angry dogs in the letter Zvezdan Jovanovic? Why didn't he have a comment on that? That's also a question. Why and why is it that between Zvezdan Jovanovic, the killer Zoran Djindjic, and the honorable officer, he sided with Zvezdan Jovanovic? How long will Zvezdan Jovanovic frame Serbian police?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15385	Ambassador, I think you've gone too far in your statements, because this has come out of the question. The sources of your information are inscriptions in the media, and you're talking about a very, very serious thing. I don't mean your question...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15386	Please let me finish, because I have proof.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15387	Yes, I, too, should hold a session and defend the dignity of both these states and parliament. So you and I are on the same assignment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15388	Presidents of the National Assembly, as you know, I am a member of the Assembly Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and I have the right to control and, by law, to control the work of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15389	Yeah, that's what you're doing on the board, but that's not what this is about. You control the service, it's your job and assignment, but don't stand here like... (Gordana Comić: Why is he intervention so much? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15390	Does this hurt? Will you, Gordana Comic, come here and hold a session, not throw the president of parliament? Can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15392	I know 240 MPs beg God that you do not hold a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15393	You interrupted me for two minutes and 47 seconds. Just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15394	No, I won't pay you back anything for the insults sent to the Home Secretary. These are heavy insults and heavy qualifications. Even Gordana Comic knows that Article 287 does not mean it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15395	Are you guys really doing this?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15396	No, I believe that you have no right to insult the ministers, not one, no matter what you are the opposition at the moment. Insults are not allowed. These are difficult qualifications, insults based on your daily reading of newspapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15397	As President of the Assembly, you defend the views of Zvezdan Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15398	Shame on you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15399	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15400	You have no right to insult me and no right to put in my mouth what I did not say. So if it's your level of discussion to invent what the President of Parliament said, it's on your cheek.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15401	Why Nebojsa Stefanovic worked according to the dictatorship of Zvezdan Jovanovic, the question was referred to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15402	Who are you asking?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15403	He's not afraid of Stefanovic as Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15404	Then it's said - why did you, Minister, do it and do it?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15405	Why, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, with the help of the Internal Affairs Sector, do you plant statements on honest officers just to be prosecuted? Is it because Zvezdan Jovanovic asked Minister Stefanovic in his letter? Yes, it is. As you can see... (Balsa Bozovic: So you won't let me continue? [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15406	Question yes, and lie no. So ask a question, and don't make a speech here that you'd like to know if it were true. (Balsa Bozovic: The microphone is off. So sign in. You've learned so much that when someone interrupts you, you have to re-apply. (Balsa Bozovic: He does not react. See, even the system doesn't recognize what you're saying. Sign up again, be nice and don't touch. I know you're nervous, but don't touch it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15407	I'm not nervous, National Assembly president. I'm asking a question, but it's a failure since you interrupt me, obviously because the question doesn't suit you that I'm asking Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15408	You haven't asked me that question, and please don't speak for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15409	Nebojsa Stefanovic must respond and have an obligation to respond to MPs and citizens who are very concerned about the reason Zvezdan Jovanovic is the one who frames the police and tells Minister Stefanovic what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15410	Thank you. Really, this doesn't make any sense. Imagine now if I'd let an SNS MP talk about some criminals who might be taking pictures with you or taking pictures. Well, it doesn't make sense. So, I don't let you insult anyone or make up and that based on the daily papers, what you read this morning, you qualify people here. So, the first part of the question relating to the procession or not, the conduct of someone from the Ministry of the Interior towards that and that, it's in accordance with Article 287, this, and this second thing that you've said is really out of context, that we're within Rules 287 and you're aware of that. You've accomplished the task, so we can be satisfied with you and me. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the right to request a notice from the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic – why so far has he not issued an act on the pardon of Zvezdan Jovanovic, although all the serious lawyers, all the judges, all the prosecutors, all the lawyers in Serbia believe he is sentenced to the most severe sentence of imprisonment, without any relevant evidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15412	MPs, period. So, we'll deliver that to Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15413	What's the problem? There's something else I'm looking for. I ask the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic for why he has not already pardoned all citizens of Serbia and Serbs who are not citizens of Serbia, and who have been convicted of alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity, if it is known that the entire war crimes prosecution was in the hands of the US Embassy, that the previous prosecutor Vukcevic was given a warrant to be charged with, and we have evidence that you, Mrs Gojkovic, were sent to this, at least in one case, we have evidence that people were convicted for false testimony, for example in the Ovcar case. There, on the basis of two false testimony from one Spasoi Petkovic Šljuka and the god of Latinovic, called Bozo Krajisnik, who personally participated in the crime on Ovcara, they were forgiven for falsely testifying against others, that, among other things, Predrag Milojevic Chinese, who was not on Ovcara, would be sentenced to 20 years. They're all released. There's a process to be restored. I guess it'll be the third or fourth renewal of the process for that false evidence. I think the president of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic should do at least one good piece by which the people will remember him, issue acts on the pardon of Zvezdan Jovanovic and acts on the pardon of all Serbs convicted of war crimes. I have another question for Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, I just need to find him. It's not sharp, what sharp, I never have any sharp questions for him. Let me just find the official data here. Since Aleksandar Vukic told Albanian television that he had never represented the ideology of a great Serbia, but only that he quoted me in it, and eventually promised to arrest anyone who advocates large Serbia, so I now invite him to arrest me as soon as possible, until I withdraw some natural laws, and to inform me in advance to prepare my pajamas, a toothbrush, a dress, slippers, which I should take. Okay, he promised to arrest Dinkic, and Dinkic won't. However, here he says he will arrest anyone who advocates large Serbia. I have advocated great Serbia, I have advocated almost all my life and I will advocate for the rest of my life. I am a typical case to be arrested on a promise Alexander Vukic made to Albanian television. I will not ask him how he only quoted me in his own time when it comes to the great Serbia. There were some more of you who kept quoting me. I thought you honestly believed me, that you truly believed in this ideology. Finally, I ask the president of the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic, did you, Mrs Gojkovic, honestly believe in large Serbia or did you just quote me? If you honestly believed it, do you still believe it, so we can go to jail together? You have already shown great courage once when Ustasha arrested me at Batin, when they had already brought me into the police “marica”, you ran after me with the identification of the International Law Organization and forced you into the “marica” where I was. I expect you courage to plead, then you were for the great Serbia, ready to die for the great Serbia, did you stay on it?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15414	Thank you. You're out of law school. I feel good.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15415	This verbally for you to answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15416	I'm perfectly fine, and thank you for remembering that I've always been a lawyer in every place.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15417	But you have to answer me orally.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15418	... and respect and wonders of our profession and international...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15419	Please answer me orally.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15420	... and the international organisation to which the Vojvodina and Serbian bar belongs and that I have shown legal legitimacy, even under very difficult conditions and dangers to my life and yours at that moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15421	But for you, it was even more dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15422	It was more dangerous for me, because no one arrested me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15423	But to answer my question orally now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15424	I will, come for coffee whenever you want. We can talk, and we can order coffee here, just to allow Sasa Radulovic to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15425	Come on, order me a cup of coffee, then plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15426	Just to allow Sasa Radulovic to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15427	Thank you. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is a Article 287 by which MPs question republican officials, who are obliged to answer the questions of MPs within 15 days, read Article 287, in writing. The MPs of the movement have asked 30 questions from this assembly speaker so far to the Prime Minister and the president of the Assembly, 19 questions to the Prime Minister and 11 questions to the speaker of the assembly. None of these questions in the last nine months have been answered in writing. Here are the questions we have asked, which when an MP asks a question from a congregation speaker, the professional service of the Assembly makes a letter and instructs it to that republican official to whom the question is asked. So the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister ignore the MPs and the rules of this assembly and do not answer these questions. So again, the question of the President of the Assembly is: Why does he not answer the questions of the MPs? So, the question to the Prime Minister -- why isn't he answering the question of MPs? Here, I'll give a few examples to the president of the assembly. The question we asked her on 16 November – when the annual work plan of the National Assembly will be adopted, as prescribed by Article 28(1). Rules of Procedure? For more than five months, at that point, we've been working completely versed. Or, for example, the question to the Prime Minister, despite the subsidies of Er Serbia and Jelizar Smederevo, are making losses year by year, while taxpayers are taking over their debts. Only in the last two years, and the issue was raised on October 19th last year, only in the last two years in those companies went to 270m euros. Then we asked the question on October 19th to the Prime Minister – is it true that the Azerbaijani firm Azvirt, engaged in the construction of the road from Ljiga to Preljina, imports oil from Azerbaijan without paying customs, excise and VAT, meant any duties? How much oil are we talking about? So, is it true that this oil they import without taxes, without VAT, without customs duties, that they resell that oil further to our subcontractors at full market prices, and why is that allowed? Also, is it true that the company has leased the "T Sovo" separation, that it is taking out a shredded stone and aggregate, which also sells to our subcontractors at 35 euros per cubic metre, while the market price is 21 euros per cubic metre? Why do the government and the departments in charge allow this? Of course, it is undeniable that Serbia needs roads, it is undeniable to build them, but in this way, by giving contracts to such companies and giving them these benefits, we're actually just throwing taxpayers' money away and we're probably giving it to corruption. None of these questions were answered. So, I would also ask the President of the Assembly and the Prime Minister to respect Article 287 and not to give oral answers to these questions at press conferences or verbally here in the Assembly, but to respond in accordance with the rules, and I am sure that we will agree that the rules will have to be respected, to respond within 15 days in writing. Then I have a question for the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister. We learned from the media that an assassination attempt was made on Belgrade's criminal police chief Veselin Milic. The question for the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior is – is it true that the assassination of Veselin Milic has been attempted and what is being taken into account since we have not received any information about this? This is a very important event for the state, and all state authorities would have to be in great action to discover what it is, since this attack on civil servants, in this case, Belgrade's criminal police chief, is a huge blow to the state. The second question is for both, during an investigation conducted by Belgrade's criminal police during the murder of Aleksandar Stankovic called Sala Mutavi, official IDs, a gun and a radio station of the MUP were found. Where'd a criminal get his official ID from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15429	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15430	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, I will use my time to ask the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The current prime minister, and future president of the state, Aleksandar Vucic, showed that at the end of the war, around 6,500 people, mostly women and children, were abused and killed by the discovery of the monument of the Danube Krauts last week in Bačka Jark, where the communist authorities at the end of the war showed that unlike many statesmen, i.e. A politician in the environment, that he joined the right statesman and could respect other people's victims. This is just proof that while everywhere in the environment, for the sake of collecting cheap political points, immature, incompetent politicians rattle with weapons, Serbs show that they are correcting the injustices of the past, that they are ready to settle and overcome the past of national ones, and I would say much more ideological blindness. To definitely bury all the holes in the past, pits or injustices that are much needed is the condemnation of all communist crimes against their own people, especially those that occurred at the end and after the war, made mostly of people who thought otherwise, more precisely who supported the kingdom. One such crime, which prompted me to ask such a question, is a crime in Panceva when communists shot 72 Serbian pilots at the village of Apple in October 25, 1944 just because they served the king and the country during one period. In the most miserable way, believing that they were invited to help with their participation to fight the occupiers, they were lured to come to Panchevo where they were shot for no reason and court. I know there are people who are going to say I'm going back in time, but all those who talk like that, I'd just ask them to ask themselves that these people were members of their families to think. Unfortunately, I don't have time to talk about the sad fates of many other people, as well as their patriotism. So far, we've only had a statement from Free Homen, a former secretary of state at the Ministry of Justice, that the truth will finally come out, but unfortunately everything remains on promise. If we don't correct the injustices of the past and we don't tell the truth, no matter how painful she is, our people will never have the future they want. Of course, the truth is healing and only in this way, and there is no other way to achieve national reconciliation. Reconciliation, unity, while others rattle with weapons, are something we need more than ever before, it must be the basis of every policy, more specifically, it must be above any policy. So my parliamentary question comes from what I have told you so far, and that's what the resolution ministries I mentioned will do, i.e. The state to make a full truth about these martyrs from Panchev, but also about all the other communist crimes committed over their own people. I will remind only that there was a committee for a list of all communist victims and crimes led by our distinguished expert Srdjan Cvetkovic, who listed the name and last name of almost 60,000 people who were killed because they thought otherwise. It requires every respect. That figure is, of course, much larger, because many families have been murdered and their tracks have been suppressed, it's very difficult to know that final number, but in any case, these data can be of great use so that we can finally tell the truth, solve one of the acute problems from our past and finally the victims, and especially call criminals the real name. I would use this little time, which I have left, to make one request or appeal to the Ministry of Justice to reconsider once more the need to amend the Criminal Code in that section involving rapists, child murderers, minors and women. I believe that a life sentence is the only punishment for these monsters without any conscience that will never fit into society, but a crime or crime will happen again when they are released from power. Thanks for the time you gave me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15431	I would like to inform you that today he has been prevented from attending the session of the People's Councillor Milovan Dracun. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the Assembly to consider proposals for acts from the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. Logs of the First and Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were delivered to you in 2017. We're moving on to a decision. I would like to inform you that by verifying the affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the MPs has provided the Committee with written observations on those minutes. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, held on 1 March, 19, 20 and 21 April 2017. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. I am voting on the minutes of the second session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, held on 21 and 25 April 2017. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out, we will consider proposals for an urgent procedure and proposals for supplementing the agenda. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on changes and additions to the Water Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments to the Law on housing and maintenance of buildings be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested putting on the agenda, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Real Estates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments to the Law on Judges be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 14 abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The SRS parliamentary group has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Mionica. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one with abstentions is available. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one with abstention – one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Loznica. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Prokuplje General Public Prosecutor's Office. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one with abstention – one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Bor. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Bruce. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Sombor General Public Prosecutor's Office. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Ruma. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Kursumlia. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Prosecution Prosecutor's Office in Piroth. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Despotovac. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in Petrovac's primary public prosecutor at Mlava. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Alexinec. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting on the agenda of an emergency procedure - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Vranj Public Prosecutor's Office. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor in the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates to elect a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Prijepolje. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates to elect a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Stara Pazova. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates to elect a public prosecutor at the Vrbas General Prosecutor's Office. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates to elect a public prosecutor at the Mladenovac Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor at the Niš General Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor at the Prosecution Prosecutor's Office in Piroth. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates to elect a public prosecutor in the Zajecar General Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Pogorevec. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a list of candidates to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 147 against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Chabrai suggested that the amendment of the Law on Cultural Goods should be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the draft law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. Does MP Bosko Obradovic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15432	Dear fellow Members of the People, we are putting before you again the draft law on the suspension of the Law on the temporary payment of pensions, which, as you well know, has been going on for three years. Indeed, all pensioners in Serbia are rightly asking today what is the Law on the temporary way of paying off pensions that lasts for three years. What's the point, then, if you wanted to rob a pensioner and save something in the budget, is that robbery going on indefinitely and how long will the pensioner's robbery last? This is a question that every pensioner in Serbia is asking today -- why one law on the temporary way of paying off pensions lasts for three years. We have provided this legislative proposal for two very important things for pensioners in Serbia, first of all, that is to stop the law on temporary retirement and one more important thing, which is to compensate for what has been robbed and kidnapped in the previous three years by the current government. It's really a real question for the so-called. PUPS pensioners' protectors, how will they not vote for one such proposal that is in the direct interest of protecting pensioners? Is PUPS really a fake retirement party that only looks at its own personal and party interests, and ignores the interests of those on whose name it allegedly speaks, and these are the interests of the pensioners? Isn't it most normal for anyone who protects the interests of pensioners to support the abolition of this looting and thieving law on the temporary payment of pensions? It can't take a temporary retirement payment three years, gentlemen with power. We've also predicted here all the ways in which funds will be provided in the budget, so that pensioners can be compensated for what they've been robbed in the past three years. So, very seriously, very studioically, we predicted that funds would be provided in the budget so that in the coming years, in a certain number of months of war, all that they had been robbed of in the last three years would be returned to the pensioners. One of these ways, it's very important that I mention it here, is the proceeds from the assets at the disposal of the PIO Fund, which this government illegally places in privatization as if it were government property. The property of the PIO fund is not the government's property and the government can't put on PIO's privatisation fund. There are numerous court proceedings for Banjska spas and various health centres built by the property of the PIO Fund and always in courts the PIO Fund returns to its assets all that has been illegally taken away. This is one of the important revenues from returning what was taken from pensioners in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15433	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Does Miroslav Aleksic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 13, there is no one against –no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. Does Ambassador Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency's law. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law amending the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against half-freeness towards minors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the presidential elections, to the day of publication of the temporary election results at 99.9% of polling stations. Here you go. National MP Bosko Obradovic has been reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15434	Thank you. Indeed, in Serbia, it has become more than boring to repeat the story of electoral thefts that have never been discovered and that we have never been able to get rid of what is really going on in Serbia's elections. Why didn't we do that? Because the most important state institution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not ready to form a polling committee and finally determine what is really going on in Serbia's elections. When the average viewer of this direct transfer of the assembly session wants to know the full truth about electoral irregularities, irregularities, election thefts and everything that happens in the elections, it can logically conclude why such a survey committee does not form in the Assembly and why we do not all together determine what really happened in the elections? Who's got something against it? Who, if there's nothing to hide, has something against forming a joint assembly survey committee? The one who's clean in the electoral actions, the one who didn't steal anything, the one who didn't make any electoral irregularities, the one who didn't manipulate the elections, why would he be ashamed of participation in such a assembly polling committee? I clearly conclude from all of this that the only ones who are obstructing the establishment of the Assembly's polling board and investigating the electoral irregularity of the last presidential elections are the ruling majority MPs who obviously have something to hide. Because if you had nothing to hide, you would elegantly form this assembly survey board, show that there was no electoral theft, make all of us out of the opposition funny and say – see, the Assembly has shown that there is no electoral theft but you can't do it for the simple reason that you know you stole. You know that in the last presidential elections or the Single Election List, which is unscheduled, that they voted dead souls, that you pressured public sector employees to vote for Alexander Vukic or that they would lose their jobs, that you had an anti-constitutional manual on how to vote on KIM and that you put RIK above the Constitutional Court of Serbia. And what I will now quote to you, and what Serbian citizens do not have the opportunity to know at all, is that you have violated two extremely important control roles, the formation of a National Assembly supervisory board that would monitor the conduct of elections and the role of REM which should also be held in order to monitor the equal representation of all presidential candidates in the elections. You didn't do all this, and you directly influenced electoral irregularities and election theft in the presidential election.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15435	I thank you, MP. I'm putting Bosko Obradovic on the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 26, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. Does the MP want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 32, against – four abstentions – no vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal to include this point in the agenda of this session. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri group suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a motion for a resolution on the Genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Bosko Obradovic is authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15436	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, was given this day to the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, after more than 70 years, to witness the truth about the death of Serbs in the NDH, the organisation of the first exhibition on the death of Serbs in Jasenovac in such a lofty, important and important state home of the Republic of Serbia. It is indeed a huge event and a major step forward, that the most important state institution of this country, after more than 70 years, has revealed to the public the truth about the Serb death in NDH. But, dear fellow MPs, that's not enough. We need to do one thing for more than 70 years, which is that the state institution adopts a resolution on the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. This is our obligation towards more than 700,000 victims in Jadovno and Jasenovac concentration camps, the most monstrous death camps, the death industries in World War II. I can't see and can't understand which Serb can't support the adoption of this resolution on genocide in NDH over Serbs here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am sure that every SNS member, SPS and other parties of the ruling coalition, if asked by anyone if it was for the adoption of a resolution on genocide against Serbs in NDH, any SNS and SPS voters would say that, and now they cannot get an answer to the question why its representatives in the Republic Assembly, why the MPs from the SNS and the SPS, honor the exceptions, do not want to support the adoption of a resolution on genocide in NDH on Serbs, Jews and Roma. There's no logical explanation. There's no normal explanation. Is it a problem that the Dwreys proposed this resolution? I have said it many times and I repeat - I am giving up this resolution, let the Government of the Republic of Serbia propose it, let it be proposed by a parliamentary group of SNS or SPS, we will vote for it. Let's just do the historic thing that we owe to the ancestors and all the victims of NDH, condemn the genocide of Serbs in NDH, to bring the truth to both the domestic and international public about the loss of Serbs in NDH. You want that to be your proposal? Propose and we'll back it up. Do not reject proposals that are of general national and national interest only because the opposition suggested it. So don't work against the state's interest because we're on the other side of this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15437	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 26, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal to supplement the agenda. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15438	Based on the Social Partnership Agreement between the Court and the Association of the Pensioners of Serbia and the Association of Unions of Retired Military Persons of Serbia, two truly authentic unions that care about the interests of pensioners in Serbia unlike the false pensioner PUPS party, we have passed another law in the assembly procedure that directly concerns the interests of pensioners in Serbia. Namely, here is an important quote from the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in article 70 prescribes the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to take care of the economic security of pensioners. The government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, has one very important obligation -- to take care of the economic security of pensioners. The government of the Republic of Serbia is doing the opposite. It has not only reduced pensions and thus directly hit the oldest citizens in Serbia, but has also done one very important thing, i.e. wiped out a member of the law that brought pensions into line on an annual basis with the cost of living, with prices and even living standards in Serbia. So, today, pensioners are not only robbed of this authority by someone taking away their directly acquired right, their property, their earned pension, but still deprived them of such economic security that their incomes, or the amount of pension payments, do not follow the compliance with the cost of living that is constantly growing because of inflation and other reasons. So this government is an anti-retirement government and the measures of this government are anti-retiremental. Only a PUPS can agree to such a thing as a false retirement party, but real unions, like the Association of Retirement Unions of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15439	MP, no offense, no qualifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15440	... And the Union of retired military personnel will never agree to such anti-retirement measures by the government. Another important thing, the government did another attempt to get into pensioners' rights. The government ruled the PIO Fund, reduced the number of board members to seven, and out of seven government members appointed four members of the board of directors of the PIO Fund. So believe it or not, respected Serbian citizens, respected pensioners, the government has taken a decision on a PIO fund in Serbia. So, because employees are filling the PIO fund and pensioners are users of the PIO fund, that the PIO fund has huge assets, that no longer means anything, from now on the government is asking itself, and the government is going to decide on your rights, on your property, and on everything you've worked so hard for years and decades back. We believe that this law too must be changed and the PIO Fund returned to its employees and pensioners. Of course, I invite all of you to support me in this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15441	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted to be included in the agenda. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15442	Thank you very much. Here are the good two, if not the third year that I am trying to help the Assembly through this draft amendments to the law take responsibility for the adoption of laws and repairs of their own and others' mistakes and thus try to sort out the situation in higher education. Of course everyone knows what the subject is, the theme is fake diplomas, fake doctorates. At the highest places in the country, the president, ministers, mayor, many other senior officials have diplomas, and some of them have the value of paper in which it is printed and perhaps the value of the depreciation of the printer who printed that diploma, there is no "n" in science, there is no "n" from any knowledge of matter, knowledge or anything. Two years ago, I said, a bill was put forward, no one came forward until about six months ago when the government said that in its amendments it would start this topic, start working on it, give some solution that would be a good way to solve this problem, whose testimony we are all MPs and all citizens of Serbia, but that didn't happen. That's why I'm trying, and this is probably the 10th, 15th time, to convince you that diploma is evidence of knowledge, that diploma is not, of course, necessary to all Serbian citizens, but those who want to have it should have it because it means that they've learned something, that diploma should be a qualification for a job, but also a reflection of the face of a man, as frankly he can go to the citizens of Serbia and say what I'm saying, what I have, what I am, that's true. If this isn't done, then we'll have what we have today, which is the flood of fake rescuers, fake patriots, fake doctors, fake graduates, masturbated, or I don't know what kind of scientists from Megatrend and similar pits of intellectuals, we'll have that being emigrated to us by 40,000, 50,000 educated people every year. It's not an accident and it's not just the result of the economic crisis, world or domestic, it's a deliberate SNS and Satellite policy to drive everyone out of Serbia healthy so these frauds with fake diplomats can take their seats. We can prevent that from being passed by amending the law, as I suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15443	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15444	And this is already a years-long attempt to pass a whole new law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. As we know, in this area, it is the same general known thing, we have big problems, all around us, from the largest wild construction site on the Balkan territory, which is colloktimally referred to as "Belgrade on Water", through many such examples in Belgrade and many other Serbian cities. A while ago, we received another law with the same subject being implemented as everything in Serbia, which means by the will of the ruler, so when it can, whenever it wants, it will, without any thorough preparation, without any punishment or prevention that would prevent such behaviour. I've already pointed out, for example, in Nebojsa 8, which is happening now, I've also asked the vice president of the government. After that, I received 40 examples in Belgrade where it is built absolutely without any permission. So then I got a hundred more examples from Serbia, and then they said the Law of Law would solve everything. No, that law on law enforcement is another hole in the system, a law that was passed to bring criminal construction to the level of legality, which, of course, cannot happen. This law is an adjective version of the law that was passed in 2003, which I propose, where the profession, science has given its maximum in the definition of conditions for normal, correct, on the law and on the basis of construction, where it would be absolutely impossible for any wild construction to be possible because a prison sentence for the beginning of works without building permits and all those documents that precede it. Unfortunately, the next government in 2004, in the form of its capital investment minister, for example, violated the law at his personal facility and was practically unimplemented. That's why I'm affirming this law again and I'm giving you the opportunity to stand by this good proposal with your vote. I repeat, that's when sticking the aces into the ground, let alone bringing heavy machines, would lead to whoever does it without adequate permits going to jail. This means that the prison would already be investors and domestic co-workers of Berograda on Water, an object I already mentioned in Nebojsa's 8a and many other facilities that exist all around. I'm giving you a chance to correct the sins of your past and vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15445	Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15446	Thank you. There are two members, very simple. The point is – it is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media broadcasts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to submit electoral lists for the transfer of pre-election meetings, political messages and advertisements. I filed this law at the end of last year, preventively, before the elections that were expected, which were held. The idea is to throw huge money for political, moral, aesthetic and whatever it is that's unacceptable. political marketing, which is close to 100m euros for each election, is not a pair of political parties and list promoters, but a pair of Serbian citizens, taxpayers of Serbia, as elections, either through the budget, are funded from that money, either from black funds. Because these black funds are that "Srbigas" or "EPS" or someone else gives you some dirty money, which is the money of Serbian citizens, of which you make after political marketing. Not to tell you what those commercials looked like, from Mrs. Hope, the return of diplomas and other sketches that were broadcast as political messages. If the bill I'm talking about was adopted then, there wouldn't be that dirt on our electronic media first of all, but more importantly, there would be saved a lot of money that could be used for much more important things, such as treating patients with severe illnesses and treating children. Today, we have, through the same electronic media that broadcast that garbage, contributions yesterday to Serbia being humane because it has raised 100, 200, 300 000 euros for the treatment of a poor child. Of course, Serbia is human and of course it's good, but it's not the state's job to praise such behaviour, it's to treat those children. With 50m euros, which is half the total amount spent this way, it would allow for the treatment of all children suffering from highly treatable and rare diseases, and not only children, but also older ones. As it stands now, it is a direct attack on Serbia's future, not only because of the garbage being broadcast, but because children, who are Serbia's future, we all agree on this, do not have the opportunity to be seen medically in an adequate way. I cannot treat children through SMS in Serbia, there is a way to prevent this, it is the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15447	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15448	No matter what happens since 2015, it means third year, I don't find it hard to repeat it again. Of course, any genocide that has occurred in mankind’s history should be condemned in a way that is appropriate. This is about a genocide over the Armenians that was committed in the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1922. I was already talking about that this would not be an exception, because many parliaments in the world have already condemned this genocide in the same way, and these are, say, the parliaments of the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, several states of the United States and many others. This would also make Serbia fit into a group of these, I think, respectable states, and show that it cares about ethics, morals, the legal consequences of the crime and when it comes to not being citizens of Serbia. In addition, we would gain even greater importance and even greater justification in what we are asking for the condemnation of genocide against the Serb people, of the citizens of Serbia, of all those on the territory for which this parliament is responsible, of crimes, of various crimes, and of those measured by the level of genocide. Of course, our history is also full of such shameful, ugly situations, of course that we could condemn those among us, among the citizens of Serbia, alive or dead, who allegedly committed war crimes on our behalf, which are on the level of genocide or are themselves genocide. There's no such thing as bad and good genocide. There's no such thing as a bad crime or a good crime. There's no such thing as a bad, good criminal. There is a right and there is morality, and if rights and morals do not have their basis in most of the MPs of this body, this parliament, then we have a big problem in Serbia. This problem is even bigger than having children treated with SMS and what the top authorities make forgers with fake diplomats and many other things that are large in themselves. That's why I invite you to vote for this resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15449	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 23rd versus – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15450	This law is directly related to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs that I have spoken of, since the waste of money for disgusting, terrestrial, primitive political advertising is defined in two laws, in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and in the Law on the Financing of Political Parties. Two members of the same – deleted in the existing law Article 23, paragraph 2, creating conditions to prohibit advertising of political entities in election campaigns. Again to call on the international experience. This would not, of course, put an end to the possibility of spending people's money on pointless commercials politically, reduce the possibility of Serbian citizens getting acquainted with political programmes of parties, candidates, proposings. On the contrary, there is a way for that to happen and that, first of all, electronic media is giving adequate space at the time of the campaign to all candidates, as in some countries that are democratic around here, like France, and then all candidates for presidents get the same time and opportunity to show their programmes in the duel. The ban on advertising of political parties and candidates in the elections has long been established and present, the ban in Great Britain, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, France, Germany, Ireland and many other countries. I am sure that we will share the impression that these countries that I have read are countries that have a slightly longer democratic tradition than in Serbia, and that if citizens can be informed about the political party programme there, so that they come out and vote in percentages that are 75%, 80%, as we have examples in the last elections in some EU countries, then it is certainly possible for this to happen in the state of Serbia, which at least publicly praises its democratic foundations, tradition and the application of democratic parameters in the present country. Of course, that's not true. Of course, to make the adoption of this law a major attack on lies, fraud, manipulation that the current government is making towards Serbian citizens on the cost of the same Serbian citizens, as some villains would say, there are some justices. But I don't agree with that, and I think it's a real opportunity for you to step forward and shut down the possibility of spending people's money to throw away, and that money is spent on treating our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15451	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15452	We now move to one, as they would say, a set of health laws, and the first among them is the draft law supplementing the Government Act, where it is said that above the members and members of the 11th are changed and said – the health capacity of incompatibility and conflict of interest, and that Article 11 reads – before the government's election, every proposed member of the Government must provide a doctor's confidence in the health capacity to establish a working relationship in the state bodies. A member of the government cannot be in another public office in the state body, the authority of the administration of the autonomous province, the municipality, the city of Belgrade or perform an act that is not legally compatible and so on. This is an incompatibility function. I insist on this because, as the Serbian public knows, including fellow MPs, some speak publicly about it, some talk about it in the towers, some write secret messages, some laugh behind these pillars, but in general, it is clear that we in the government have a lot of people who have not proven their health ability to act as government members, and that is more than clear. We have one government from 2000 to the day where it was found exact, this is the government of Zoran Djindjic, which I unfortunately have led for the past year, where all the members of that government had to go to parliament before they had to go to a reference institution called VMA and be examined there, with the intention of establishing their health capacity to perform their employment duties at any function in the state authorities. So if we have a candidate for a member of the government, who can't get health assurance, that he's capable of the job of administrator, secretary, hygienist, security, referent, then of course such a candidate can't get the support of parliament. That would be normal. Unfortunately here, we have a flood of people who, by their behavior, absolutely raise great suspicions that they are both physically, and not only physically unable to perform their duties, and I have suggested that this will be in the following proposals both for parliament and for the president of the state, which in the last case was very clear in the last elections. That is why I call on you to heal Serbia by healing above all the most important organs, and above all, the Serbian Government. So, just healthy people, physically and mentally, to be candidates for ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15453	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—21 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a draft law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15454	This is the second in the group of three health laws, and it concerns the election of the President of the State, the President of the Republic, and it was proposed before this election, with the obvious objective necessary to prevent what happened to us, but you did not have the will to vote on it at the time, so I urge you to come to the future to prevent a man who has no health assurance of employment in public services from being elected as president of the state. Article 1 of this law says - In the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic, the "Official Messenger" and, in Article 11(3), paragraph 2), point 2a is added. which is said to be a doctor's confidence in the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies, the President of the Republic must necessarily establish a relationship in state bodies or to exercise certain rights relating to that status and therefore it is necessary to make sure that the candidates, not the one that has already been elected, are already clear, but that all candidates before being elected bring in writing that they are healthy. I repeat - physically and mentally. I think it's very possible and to prevent what's happening to us is that we have in the worst possible form, but it's been some other time and now we can't put the wheel of history back. Of course, for the future, we can create all possible conditions for such people who, some suspect, about 65 or 70% of Serbia, perhaps even more, to doubt the health of these candidates, so even those who received the highest number of votes, 70% or 75% of Serbian citizens think that they are not very healthy, because, if they thought so, they would vote for it. But here's what happened. So let's go for the future. There'll be some choices soon, sure. In Serbia, emergency elections are a regular situation. There is only one other institution called - an extraordinary press conference, which is every day. But the snap elections in Serbia are quite regular, we have some snap elections every year. Therefore, how much tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, for health, national or who knows what reasons, will sooner be for these first ones, we will have the elections again for the president of Serbia and I urge you to prevent the embarrassment that took place a month ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15455	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—22 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Do you have any other suggestions? I don't have one here. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed to supplement the agenda to the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15456	The draft law amending the Labour Act also concerns health care, but this time not for the holders of the highest state functions, but for those who choose them, which are citizens of Serbia. The situation is very clear. We have many examples where Serbian citizens have very big problems with their employers, because the law is unarranged, that is, designed to create the possibility of a completely unhealthy relationship with people who are employed without talking about the unemployed. The proposal is that in the Labour Act in Article 187(1), it is to be changed and to read – during pregnancy, maternity leave, absence from child care, absence from work for special care of children and absence from work due to temporary prevention for longer than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the employment contract. The reason for that was the situation at that company "Leon" in Nis, when that woman who was sick got fired, so the public, fortunately, played her good part and she was returned to work, but if she wasn't that firm, I apologize, not to advertise the companies here, and that's just a reason. There are as many examples as you like, of the employees' drive to wear diapers, so they don't leave their jobs, to many other examples that absolutely have nothing to do with the 21st century, Europe, ethics, morality or anything that defines life at the beginning of the 21st century. So let's just, and this has nothing to do with politicians, don't be afraid, this concerns citizens, let's let the citizens have one impression, a justified impression of dignity when they start working somewhere, that if God doesn't give them, some disease, if they're sick or in these other situations, that they're not afraid that some employer who's brought in 10,000 euros per job, or brought in as a big friend from some Tungusia, or brought in as someone who's, and that's most often come here to launder money, that and that money he got from those same citizens, doesn't spend on the salaries of those people who make money, but to fire anyone who doesn't like him and who doesn't agree with those disgusting conditions of business. So I urge you, ladies and gentlemen of all political parties, to support this bill and to create conditions for employees in Serbia, even for small wages, to have at least that minimum of dignity, not to be afraid of their jobs when they are ill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15457	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—18 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be added to the point – the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15458	In fact, there is a problem here, the majority vote in parliament, and negatively, about these good bill proposals are actually based on the state of parliament, and that is also the proposal for a law amending the law, in fact I am trying to change this state and this atmosphere, so I am asking that a member of the law that defines someone's ability to run for MPs and introduce the necessity of a doctor's examination, because that was carried out before the election of this House, I am sure that most MPs would vote for good bill proposals, that most MPs would not vote on bells, that some promises made publicly from the chair table would be fulfilled, so that we would not always listen – "au" and similar ones of some situations that we can meet in many places. So the citizens of Serbia would be sure that this parliament is healthy and that there are healthy people in it both physically and mentally, who have proof of it. I'm not saying any of you, colleagues, are sick, but we agree that none of us have any evidence, some of us have some other basis, but it doesn't matter. Generally, it must, I'll explain it to you on what basis. I'm asked by the president on what basis, so I'll explain to you later, if you're interested, because there are some permits in this country, and the condition for that is the doctor's assurance that I'm asking to be introduced to Members of Parliament. So me and some of them here have the confidence that we're psychophysically capable. But it would be good if it weren't exclusive for a few of us but for all of us to have it. I ask you, yes, that comes into question, while the president is throwing me another time, and I can warn you now because of what you're doing to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15459	I'm the only one who's making warnings. You're mistaken.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15460	And you're wasting my time. So, the condition that someone is running for MP, a member of the government, is to show that it is primarily healthy physically and psychologically, as we ask anyone who wants to get a job in any state body. Most of us here are in a permanent working relationship in parliament, which is why you have more reason to have that proof of your unquestionable health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15461	I told you I had confirmation, but I don't know what you asked for, a permit for what? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -19, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Sanda Raskovic Ivić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15462	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on July 5th 2016, the DSS parliamentary group that I was then president, proposed to consider and adopt the NDH genocide resolution on Serbs, Jews and Roma. I am no longer in the DSS today, I am in another parliamentary club, and I note this because I want to say immediately that this very important and large topic, the subject of suffering and genocide over the Serbian people, in an independent state of Croatia over Jews and Roma, a topic that overcomes politics, which exceeds certain parliamentary clubs and that exceeds the membership of any party or movement. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there was an earthquake and brilliant exhibition about Jasenovac. The exhibition, I congratulate those who organised the exhibition, did, but it would have much greater value for this parliament to adopt a resolution on the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma. We owe the victims today, we owe our ancestors, we owe the truth, and we owe it to future generations that need to be seriously and scientifically studied. By studying this accident precisely because it remains historically written, but not because of revenge, but because of the fact that such things never happen again. Look at the Armenians, who adopted in their parliament a resolution on the genocide of the Armenians in 1915, and today this resolution goes through various world parliaments and is known for the genocide of the Armenians. The Armenians are a people who are outnumbered than Serbs and we think, I am thinking and thinking is the whole parliamentary group I belong to, but I am confident that the same opinion has most MPs in this parliament, so it is almost everyone's chance to find out about the Serbian victims. You see, if you're traveling around the world, everyone's heard about "Mauthausen" and "Dahau" and "Auswitz", and I'm not quite sure that they've all heard of "Jasenovac". I'm saying, I don't want to insult anyone with this, this isn't a vengeful resolution. I call on the MPs, because I know how the vote will go today, that there will be no votes left in the ruling coalition. Please, let's meet and make the text of the Resolution adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15463	Thank you. You've extended your time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The National MP, Radoslav Milojičić, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15464	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government is contained in the provision of Article 97(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party is now proposing to amend the Law on Local Self-Government because the life of all citizens comes first whether they live in Surdulica or in Subotica. Serbia was a beautiful country and by 2012, Serbia was a country whose municipalities and cities came from various investors, and jobs were opening up. Now Serbia has now become a country since 2012 since the SNS took over, unfortunately, whose mayor of the Kingdom is opening as a capital investment of a traffic light, where the president of the Vozdovac municipality, also opens as a capital investment a walking crossing, and where the Mayor of Novi Sad, also from SNS, opens up a bicycle parking lot as a result of which I, as a national MP and DS together, propose to amend the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and propose to return to local self-government five billion dinars, as long as the SNS has taken from them. If we look back to seeing what it looks like in EU countries, we see that the European Charter, which Serbia ratified in 2007, guarantees all municipalities and all cities political, administrative and financial independence. Unfortunately, under SNS, no local self-government in Serbia has political or financial independence either. In the EU, half of the budget revenues are also at the expense of local self-government, i.e. on the account of municipalities and cities, and in Serbia it is a much worse situation, in Serbia about nine times less money gets municipalities and cities, more specifically only 10.2% get municipalities, cities and AP Vojvodina. Since 2012, SNS has taken away 50 billion dinars with municipalities and cities to show some false surplus in your budget, which does not exist. We can build roads, we can build bridges, but we must not abolish citizens of Serbia's desire and the possibility of living evenly in all cities and in all the municipalities of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15465	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The National MP, Radoslav Milojičić, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15466	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the constitutional basis for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Social Protection Act is contained in the provisions of Article 97, point 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I am really asking all MPs to listen carefully to these amendments and amendments to the law and I cannot believe that any MP from any of the MPs' groups already on the 20th time does not want to put into the agenda these amendments and the additions of the Social Protection Act, and I propose three concrete measures, and these are the following measures. The first is that all students whose parents do not work are provided free transportation from home to school. Another concrete measure is to provide free snack for all students whose parents do not work. The third concrete measure is to provide free textbooks to all students whose parents do not work. Unfortunately, there are 50,000 children in Serbia that are covered by basic and secondary education that do not have a snack. Can you imagine that picture of a friend from the bench having lunch and a student next door not having lunch? Is it possible that the ruling set does not want to accept amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act, while 50,000 children are hungry every day, which are covered by primary and secondary education? Criminals like Zvonko Veselinovic are harassing this country and passing the laws that you are voting here on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party, which is not what Serbia wants, what it wants, and how it will want the Democratic Party. Unfortunately, we have an example of a boy from Moll who took his own life for lack of money. The boy attended the third grade of high school in Vienna and dropped out of school because he had no transportation from home to school, because his parents could not provide him with a ticket from home to school, and therefore the Democratic Party suggests that all students whose parents do not work on the cost of the state provide free transportation from house to school. In 2015, unfortunately, the share of children in Serbia's total population is only 17.3% and therefore the Democratic Party proposes a concrete solution, and we suggest that all parents who do not have children be provided with free out-of-body fertilisation on the cost of the state. Serbia, unfortunately, is a leader in the region, but in the region's leader at risk of poverty. We're here first in Europe, and we need to change that immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15467	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15468	On behalf of 32 MPs and MPs, I will read the proposal for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. By suspending the work of the National Assembly during the presidential campaign, Maja Gojkovic rudely violated dignity, reduced the importance of the National Assembly and violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic has violated Articles 2, 3 and 4 which, among other things, prescribes that sovereignty comes from citizens who hold a referendum, a national initiative and through their freely elected representatives, and that no state body, political organisation, group or individual cannot claim sovereignty from citizens, nor establish power beyond the free will of citizens, and that the rule of law is the basic assumption of the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights and that the relationship of three branches of government is based on balance and mutual control. Maja Gojkovic allowed the executive authority, namely the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic, to dictate the dynamics of work, to schedule and cancel the meetings of the Assembly through public information funds, to set a break in its work, and to subdue the National Assembly to one man's will. The president of the National Assembly also injured Article 104 and 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 19. Law on the National Assembly, as well as Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which define the authority of the National Assembly president, led to the blockade of the work of the National Assembly during and after the election campaign to elect the President of the Republic. With the assessment that the Assembly will not work for stability during the campaign, Maja Gojkovic confirmed that the assembly considers the assembly a source of instability and would join those who would like everyone in Serbia to think otherwise shut up that Vukic could rule alone. Article 124. The constitution defines the government as responsible to the National Assembly for the Policy of the Republic of Serbia, for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and for the work of the authorities of the state administration, rather than vice versa, as the current situation in the Republic of Serbia and for which, among other things, Maja Gojkovic, the current president of the National Assembly is responsible. The unnecessarily five-month unhappiness of the National Assembly at a time that officials call the time of reform, except by causing an attack in public, has also caused serious delays in the adoption of certain laws. So, MPs and Madam President of the Assembly, you promised the National Assembly and the public that you would support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15469	Thank you. No, I didn't say I'd support your proposal, because I don't support the argument, because it's false, you're talking about a violation of the Constitution, but I said I'd schedule a session. Here's to the vote, let's see how much support there is in parliament for your proposal and for your explanation. So it's not street and Twitter, it's democracy, as it is in all the countries of the world that you're trying to make Serbia belong. If you want to insult that parliament or that state, do it at a press conference. I will not join you in your insults to other states. I'm closing the vote. So, at this vote for the proposal to include today's agenda item for the resolution, Maja Gojkovic, of the post of National Assembly President, voted precisely 28 MPs, against – four, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal to put this session agenda on the agenda. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. Does MP Gordana Comic want to explain this proposal? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15470	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the Law on Public Information and Media is extremely important, and so I will propose a very concrete measure very briefly, that all parliamentary clubs, each parliamentary group, should, by one MP and, by working together, make one quality public information law without division. The press is in a more difficult financial and material state. Journalists are under never more pressure and we as the Democratic Party want to get in the way of it. That is why we are proposing amendments to the Information and Media Act, and I hope that you will finally, without the pressure on the bells, vote together to arrange this extremely important area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15471	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – there is no one who is eager. I find that your proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15472	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I am not proposing these amendments and additions to the law because of the DS, but because of all the members of the MUP, who are in extremely difficult material condition. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this police law is contained in the provision of Article 97(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act are necessary, given the situation in which all members of the Ministry of the Interior are present. The situation is so bad that the SNS honored members of the MUP with 10% pay cuts, so the SNS honored them by reducing the living room. Today, a Serbian police officer and a Serb soldier are working for a shameful daily daily daily dinar of 150,00. For that journal, a Serb police officer and a Serb soldier, who risking their lives provide us and our border and our country, can buy one muffin and a glass of yogurt, which is embarrassing in 2017. Two key points are in the amendments to the Police Act. The first is that the ministry must determine the needs of the MUP system and receive students at the Police Academy accordingly. We need to have compatibility between that number of students we're training and the number needed to work at the MUP. Today, students who are ready, educated, trained, in whom the state invests financial resources, which finishes the Police Academy, do not have a mandatory job at the MUP, but in the MUP is doing some Dijana Hrkalovic who did not pass the police station. And that's why things have been happening to us that my colleague Balsa Bozovic has been talking about for several days. The second point is that the provision of Article 172(2) breaks down the presummation of innocence, the Law on the Police, which destroys the presumption of innocence. It is now happening in the police that against any police officer, any Serbian citizen, even some Martinovic, without any evidence, without any credibility, can file criminal charges, even some criminal who killed Zoran Djindjic, Zvezdan Jovanovic, the policeman is automatically away from work. Therefore, the DS proposes a concrete amendment to Article 172(2) of the Police Act and our police must reform to one widely accepted and to one European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15473	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process, from the date of the opening of the Republic elections until the date of publication of the final results of the elections. The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15474	Dear chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I assume that a small number of Serbian citizens know that by Article 99 and Article 100. The Law on the election of MPs of the National Assembly has the obligation to set up a supervisory committee to control the implementation of electoral processes in Serbia. Believe it or not, since 2000, 17 years have never been established by the Serbian Parliament's Supervisory Board for the conduct of elections, and if it had ever been formed, we would have had fair and fair elections in Serbia, and for a long time, we haven't had fair and fair elections in Serbia. Here, let me read you what the law says, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, what should actually be the role of such a supervisory committee. Under one, it monitors pre-election activities and points to any irregularities in the conduct of the political parties of candidates and other participants in the electoral process, controls the handling of public notice funds in the application of the provisions of this law relating to the provision of equal conditions for the presentation of candidates and candidates from the electoral lists, under three, proposes measures to respect the equality of candidates in the presentation of their programmes, under four, addressing the public for the protection of the moral integrity of candidates' personalities, and under five, warns of the actions of political parties, administration bodies, candidates and public notice funds that hinder election campaigns and endangers the equality of the rights of all candidates. Believe it or not, respected Serbian citizens, everything is in the law. The law made it clear how to have fair and fair elections in Serbia and the government does not want to have such elections. Seventeen years, no authority has formed the Serbian Parliament's supervisory board and has questioned the regularity of all elections from 2000 to today. That's why we're looking for a survey committee to investigate the regularity of the election. Do you want me to tell you what is the obligation of Article 51? The means of public notification, with the participation of the founders and candidates of the electoral lists, lays down closer rules for the presentation of electoral lists, electoral programmes and candidates from the electoral lists. Well, has he ever sat down together with any of the voters to agree on the rules of representation at the public media services of RTS and RTS? I don't know what's funny, Mr. Orlic? It's ridiculous to you to respect the law, which no one has ever respected... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15475	Ambassador, please explain your law. You go out, you come in, you laugh, and I never comment on it when others talk. So don't do that. (Bosko Obradovic: I don't understand what you're talking about. I don't understand you at all. (Bosko Obradovic: But you interrupt me and take my time.) Yes, in prosclave. (Bosko Obradovic: What? Will you continue to suggest or do something else? (Bosko Obradovic: Give me your word. Why did you shut me out? ) Unlike you, when others speak, I listen carefully so that I can react. So the MP does not want to further explain his proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Bosko Obradovic: How are you not ashamed? ( b) Ambassador, keep your negative passions in check when you come to the meeting. Thank you for saying that I've lost my mind, thank you, MP, thank you, really. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. That says a lot about you. That really speaks very highly of you and I thank you very much for these words and I'm glad you didn't become president of the state. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no vote on the proposal of the Dvori parliamentary group 18, against - one, abstention - no vote. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law on additions to the Criminal Code. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15476	Thank you, President of the Assembly. What's the proposal of this law is to take away arms from domestics after they register as domestic abusers at a police station. This proposal is from the last assembly. It was proposed by Dragan Sutanovac, president of the DS. We talked for the last time very seriously about this topic at the end of last year, unfortunately, at the end of last year, and I think it's very important that we pay attention to how many lives could have been saved that we put this bill on the agenda at least, that we discussed it because there is no policy in it. It has the sole concern for those who are victims of domestic violence. Over 50 women were killed because their husbands, their hosts, had legal weapons. They were registered as domestic abusers, and then they were released from their home and killed by legal weapons by members of their family. Now, this is how we stop it. In this way everyone we register as a domestic bully, the first thing we do is take away legally acquired weapons and there's nothing controversial about this law. If you want to save some life next time, let's put this on the agenda. We don't have to discuss it at all, because it's completely clear. We can save some life. Fifty lives we could have saved from the moment Dragan Sutanovac proposed this law to this day. I don't understand why this turning your head off of this problem and why when we talk about such a terrible thing and this good solution to this problem, you bend your head, you don't want to look it in the eye at all, you don't have the courage to say – yes, yes, this is a good suggestion, let's put it on the agenda. This is about people's lives. There are victims of domestic violence here, and I don't know why this isn't your agenda topic. So, a completely normal and soundly sound proposal that protects victims of domestic violence, I repeat, by registering a bully as a domestic bully, just calling the police station and making it mandatory for the police to ask for his legally acquired weaponry. I don't think there's really anything controversial here. I don't know why you as chairman and why the ruling majority of the Serbian Progressive Party is turning away from this solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15477	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Budgetary System Act. Does Parliamentwoman Maja Vidinovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When I talk about amending the Bill on the Budgetary System here, I'm actually talking about the abolition of this devastating, unfair, unfair and discriminatory, so-called. temporary employment bans. It is also cynicism and execution itself, which I said last time, comes from the name itself, because it is neither temporary, because this government is selfish year by year at the expense of the citizens of Serbia, at the expense of the institution extends, nor is there actually a ban on employment because we are all witnesses, citizens of Serbia, that it does not apply to everyone today. A ban on employment applies to a decent young man, who has learned and worked hard, who has defined that he has gained experience and knowledge and that he is doing work, to be employed tomorrow in a place that is naturally directed to the state. You know, it may be amazing to someone but there are people who work hard and who want to stay in this country, not to run away from it, who want to get a fair degree and work in those areas that are directed to the state; it's the judiciary, it's culture, it's science, it's areas where the state of Serbia and in the budget for this year, by prescribing in dozens and hundreds of aproprieties contracts on the work that are bare space for party employment, and on the other hand saying, "you young people have no place for you." It's a message this country gives young people. So, this ban applies to a young doctor, to a young scientist, to a young artist, but it does not apply, as I pointed out last time, to a convicted extreme right-handed man, Miso Vasic. So the state of Serbia, not only mocking young people and saying – there is no place for you, go from this country, but it is denying that Misa Vasic is working at all, so that after just a few days she can change him, that is to fire him in a place where he doesn't actually work. Today we'll discuss the choice of judges and prosecutors. There is no area in this society that does not suffer the consequences of a ban on employment. When we talk about the prosecution and the judiciary, we have the fact that over 500 young best people leave our judiciary, which is because we have non-transparent selection procedures, which is because they are being touched by a ban on employment, and they can neither exercise their rights nor progress. As a result, citizens, who do not work in these institutions, suffer because some kind of exercise of rights suffers because of this ban. You know, when you can't go to the D.A.'s office because you can't get a job ban on hiring a dactylographer because a colleague has retired, or a tenant, today the public prosecutor has a day of work for which the investigating judge has had five working days and because he has to do all these justice jobs of an ordinary citizen suffers and it lasts longer. These are just some of the reasons why this measure is devastating. Unfortunately, because of the lack of hearing and this fiscal consolidation, which has become an ideology that is more important to you than life, I will not give up this law and argument...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15479	Thank you, colleague Vidinović. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the “Belgrade on Water” project. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15480	So it is a lex specialis famous, which was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by law and by the Constitution, by system laws and by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The law allowed several people from the top of the government to be enriched by the land of Beogradjana, which Branko Pesic had left for Belgrade in 1972, to be allocated free of charge to 90 or 1000 years, depending on how long the construction of the "Belgrade on Water" project will take place, one small group of friends of the government or president of the Republic of Serbia, who will build a shopping mall there, which will build their own cafe, which will build hotels. I think it's very bad that Serbia, on the other hand, has committed itself to funding that few people the whole project. Today we have no money for young people or for free textbooks. We don't have any money for scholarships today. Today we have no money to treat, but it is done via SMS, and on the other hand, Serbia through the joint venture "Belgrade on Water" invests hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros, through land and material resources to billions of euros and then I ask – where exactly is the public interest, what was the basis to adopt the lex specialis? Where's the public interest in having a hotel or shopping mall or a casino? What exactly will citizens benefit from? Who's going to be busy here? How many jobs will be opened for these hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros? That's all you couldn't answer, even when the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia was here. For this reason, we suggest that the Assembly discuss lex specialis. The first thing, as promised, when we do most of this house is to abolish such a harmful and looting law. We think he's a disgrace to Serbia. We believe that he is poor already poor citizens, and this is how some of your tycoons, friends from the narrow surroundings of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, get rich. It is very clear to every citizen how much the state of Serbia is investing here and how little it gets. After lex specialis, as you yourself know, we have written various criminal charges for those who have signed a contract for the construction of "Bood on Water", which have direct influence and direct benefit. We will not give up the fight for the rule of law and I believe that this law that is not under the Constitution, when it will be abolished in this house, to save the finances and citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15481	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15482	Thank you. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the UAE, because this is a roof agreement to rob the Republic of Serbia. This was the first interstate agreement to allow the adoption of lex specialis, which allowed the signing of a "Belgrade on Water" contract where Serbia invests hundreds of times as much money as money and material goods, with only 32% in the share of the joint venture. On the other hand, an Arab investor invests only 150m euros in a joint loan, therefore, guaranteed by Serbian citizens, with 68% in the share of businesses. The disproportionateness speaks of how this ruling majority does not care about the money of Serbian citizens and the way it is spent. People live worse and worse, citizens cannot live normally and with dignity in Serbia, and on the other hand, hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros are given to a special Arab investor who clearly represents, no one else, but a friend of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. It is sad, in general, that such agreements in the 21st century, one country that tends to be serious, in general, and can put it to a vote, and, in general, adopt such a shame. We'll never be a serious country if we present ourselves in front of the world, in this way, that we're cheap goods for some tycoons, that we're cheap goods for those who want to get rich on their backs already poor people. This is not really the way, this is not the kind of thing anyone can say -- we're proud of this, we did this to make Serbian citizens live better, we did this to open up a job. No, we did this to make a small group of people at the top of power even richer, to make the people poorer. For this reason we think this is a harmful agreement, it is not democratic. You could've adopted here if the country was a flat plate, the citizens wouldn't benefit from it, you adopted this so that you could benefit financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15483	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15484	I thank the chairman. This is a law that he supported and submitted, too, by my colleague Marko Djurisic, and together we have come to the conclusion that this Law on Temporary Reduction, and it is not said for how many years, we are abolished because the pension is acquired. It is the property of citizens who have earned this pension through honest and hard work. As tomorrow, you may have taken someone's property from the house, by some law that brings them to SNS, by taking TV or by working from the house, because you have passed a law that violates human rights in the most brutal way, and all the Constitutional Courts of the countries in the region, or countries in Europe, where the ruling majority in such an ugly way tried to fill the deficit in the budget. It happened in Portugal, it happened in Italy, it happened in Greece, it happened in many countries where incompetent politicians wanted in this way, demagogue measures, to take someone to cover their incompetence. These Constitutional courts, all of them, decided in the following way – pension is acquired right and it can never be reduced. You can't get rights downgraded. Now, the problem is that the Constitutional Court, with us, is not advertising on this matter. Why? Because there's so much pressure from the executive authority in court that you simply have judges of the Constitutional Court who can't, while this ruling majority is what it is, to decide on this matter. This speaks of how no rule of law exists in the state of Serbia and how much you do not care about it. That is why it is very important for this law to be on the agenda, because it concerns more than 700,000 citizens living, year by year, worse and worse. You once cut pensions and didn't let the citizens get their pensions back in the '90s, so we gave it back in 2000. We're going to get our pensions back, even what's missing in this period, and that's our job. The sooner this ruling majority is removed and removed, and the sooner we have the elections, the sooner the citizens get back what belongs to them, primarily the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15485	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15486	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, this is a law that is the subject of a broad debate with, above all, young people in Serbia who we have had in the past few months. What is important is that young people leave Serbia because they don't see their future here, they can't get a job, they can't get it right, they can't get what they've learned to apply in their country, and then they come out of this country and give their knowledge and their energy to the use of another country. It will make Serbia a sad song in the next five or ten years at this pace. We will be a sad song by mother old, as Davicho said in his song "Serbia", which will not be able to respond to the challenges of the modern world, we will be a society that will absolutely not be able to meet the needs of modernization. Without young people, without their knowledge and their energy, we absolutely have nothing more to talk about here, because there will be no more of this Parliament, there will be no one to treat people, no one to educate people, there will be no people who will be educated in Serbia. We fail as a state and as a society, and that is what is the essence of everything and for this reason we are trying to make it easier for a young man to get a job. Professor Micunovic also took part in the debates that concerned and the adoption of the bill, for the simple reason he has been a university professor for a long time, with this topic as well, as young people have not only left in the past few years, they have been leaving in the last few decades. What concerns us is that young people, most of all, have been leaving for the last three or four years. Over 60,000 citizens have left the country in the last year. According to the OCD, more than 80,000 Serbian citizens will exit this year. Calculate with this increase how many citizens will get out of this country forever in the next ten years. We'll run out of millions of people if we don't pass this bill. What Alexander Vulin says will be someone who will be unemployed, a few less unemployed, no, we will lose the potential of these people coming out of this country forever, and we can never make up for it. That is why it is very important that we do everything we can to preserve this young world and keep it and apply its knowledge and energy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15487	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 17, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Labour Act. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15488	This is also a law on youth employment, in order to make it easier for them to get to work faster. This proposal for an amendment to the Labour Act provides that someone who is in high school can go to three months of practice, under certain conditions, can extend that practice to another three months, but not to be abused it is limited to three months. On the other hand, college students have to practice for six months, which can also, in certain conditions, expand to another six months, so that our young people, when they finish schooling, can have some kind of experience. Today's the biggest problem when you're a young man, you finish high school or college, or higher, they tell you, on the labour market, so you have no work experience. We're here to prevent it from being an excuse so employers don't hire young people. So this is the way that they have some acquired work experience. Some diaries, i.e. allowancees, half at the expense of the employer, half at the expense of the state. The law on the employment of young people costs 50m euros annually, and it is only necessary for those informally employed, those who work on black to be formally employed, and we will do so in this way and we have already covered a loss of 50m euros. Every new one who gets a job winning for our country. It's a way to keep it less in Serbia. We have, of course, suggested that the sooner they graduate from high school and the sooner they finish colleges, that it be a reward by paying, or cheaper on the labour market, because their cost will be lower than for those over 30 years. So from 15 to 24 years, 20% for contributions to mandatory social security and this growth rate with years of life. So, the younger you are, the more competitive and cheaper you are. The employers very much praised this bill. They think it will be very successful because it suits them, and on the other hand, this is a proposal to hire young people who work in the Netherlands, for example. So there's a parallel practice, it works in practice and the Netherlands this law has brought enormous results. We have adapted it to our legislative system and the needs of our society, and I think it is very important that you too understand as the ruling majority that it is not just you, but that there are some young people who want to stay living in this country and that they should also be given a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15489	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors in order to determine the fact of the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in the Belgrade-based district of Savamal and to determine the facts of the responsibility of the person who executed the destruction of those facilities. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15490	Thank you. So, my colleague Marko Djurisic and I have asked for the establishment of the Survey Committee for the simple reason that many things are clear, but they are simply not polluted, nor are the competent authorities absolutely taking any measures. Under the pressure of the MUP, the prosecution refused to do the investigation, under pressure from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, refused to do its job, and we are now in some vacuum. For over a year now, we've had one crime in downtown. Someone's facilities have been destroyed, someone's private property has been destroyed. It was part of an agreement on the construction of Beograda on Water, and the contract itself says that someone's private property must be removed so that the state of Serbia does not pay for it. So there is no doubt that the highest state authorities participated in this criminal act. On its front page, the weekly "NIN" on several occasions accused Nebojsa Stefanovic, the police minister as though he were the main fan in Savala. We're in addition to that information and information that Alexander Vukic is also one of the main phantoms of the Savamala. Now what's bothering us is what's been going on in the last few days. What if all of this turns out to be some of the criminal elements of both prison and those who took part in the execution of this crime? What is very important is that the National Assembly forms the Survey Committee and that we finally tell the citizens what this is about, that we examine all those who are suspects, those from the top of the Belgrade government, but also from the top of the republican government, to see who, with whose help from the criminal structures that night, when voices were counted last year, crashed someone's private property and tied up citizens of the Republic of Serbia, deprived them of life, abolished the Constitution and the laws and prevented the police from doing their job. It is obvious that Nebojsa Stefanovic is one of the main actors, but we are also interested -- to the extent that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is involved in something like this, and therefore it is very important that this Assembly, which controls or at least should control the executive authority, is convened by the Survey Committee. If you have nothing to hide, I don't see any reason to be afraid of the Survey Committee and this opportunity unless you're really hiding anything, then vote for this proposal. If you are hiding, then don't vote for this proposal, so the citizens will understand what is actually the result of what we are saying to my colleague Djurisic and I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15491	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no two abstentions for—17 against—two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15492	It has been five years since most of this House has made Alexander Vukic and his party and in the past five years we have reduced everything that is public giving. We've passed a law on temporary pension cuts. We've cut our salary in education. We have reduced salaries in health care, public administration, police, military, and among other things we have reduced all payments towards agriculture which were the result of budgets and donations by 2012. This law stipulates that if the prime minister speaks, the current president or should be president, the truth that finance has never been better and that we are going to crash into a better future, we must return the donations we had until 2012 in agriculture. Since 2012, direct incentives for agriculture have been 100 euros, and for the maximum 100 hectares today they are several dozen euros and allow farmers, especially in Vojvodina to provide these incentives primarily for 20 hectares. We're in the middle of a farm devastation. In parallel, we have an announcement by the minister, who was here in parliament six months ago, announced that the new Encouragement Act would allow the European money from the IPARDA to be attracted as well. No sign of IPARD today in May of the month. We've heard how we're going to stimulate small processing facilities from which nothing happened until today. We've heard everything, and what we've seen is that by criminal contracts and international agreements we've alienated a large amount of land, we've given to tycoons, unknown owners who are suspected of being close to the Vukic family. We have a complete devastation of stock reserves in the last five years. Some MPs and their families are involved. We have criminal convictions against family members, and we still keep quiet, and we still don't want to deal with what's most important in this country, which is what we're most afraid of, the most we're talking about, and that's better and European agriculture. This law is necessary if we want our agricultural producers to be competitive. They carried the burden of the 1990s on their hump. It turns out that when the same nomenclature comes back to power again, we today have those who need to carry the burden again, and these are agricultural producers, whose money will fund suspicious projects called "Belgrade on Water", "Etihad", "Al Rafeda" and other fictional private companies that we don't know who the owners are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15493	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Does MP Goran Jesic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15494	In 2007, the State Agricultural Land Act was passed when the country's last agrarian reform occurred and when we took away the tycoons from the country, we allowed small farmers to come to this land in a fair way, and thus, first and foremost, to compete in the area of agriculture. The first and primary task of Alexander Vukic and SNS since 2012 was the idea of how to undo this law and how the country's largest resource, which is state agricultural land, to take away from the hands of the pair and to give private "foreign investors". This law has caused a lot of turbulence, from the very associations of farmers, individual MPs, professional public, and has never received support. In the end, the Land Administration and the people who did professional work were removed from that place, as the apriors were against such a law. The result of this Law, after all these peripetias that were created, was that it was called the Tenis Law. No sign of Tennis today, May 2017. When we've been anticipating that we're going to take 30% of the best land and give it to a direct contract by the minister, it happens next, that the competition for that land will be annulled. This law is the worst thing that's happened in five years. It is a fruit, among other things, and an interstate agreement, that it is the fruit of having foreign investors in Vojvodina today that we do not know who the owners are, which are called Al Ravafed, which are deleted from the register in the Emirates, only exist in the register of the Republic of Serbia, you have fictitious offices and the loss of a company that manages 10,000 hectares of land of five billion, concluded with May last year and the final account they submitted. My question is, what else do we have to do and who else do we have to give the country just to ensure that the private nomenclature of friends and relatives is provided, and proven in the case of Al Ravaphed, the Adriatic of Gaydobra, the Baka of Sivac, Karajordjeva that they absolutely don't know what they're doing? You have a negative opinion of the Serbian Army's legal service regarding a deal with Ravaphed and all this concerns this Law and phantom interstate agreements. Soon you will have JAT's bankruptcy, soon you will have a bankruptcy of ER Serbia, soon you will have a problem with funding "Beograda na Voda", and above all you had the bankruptcy of the company that Aleksandar Vucic signed and under allegations brought to Serbia, and it is called Al Ravafed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15495	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15496	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, the Law on Public Information and Media has been in force since 13 August 2014 and its adoption under a set of media laws has been announced as a major reform shift. We are all witnessing that unfortunately this law is literally a dead letter on paper, that, as our prime minister would say, we have never had worse media in recent history. What you should all know, honourable Members of Parliament, is that the ownership structure in all media is not shown in a transparent manner. What the proposal is, in fact, changing and supplementing this Act, primarily refers to the media register, that media owners, directly or indirectly, regardless of the level of share in founding capital, publishing, unlike the different solutions that only owners whose share is more than 5%, I suggest that these changes also be entered by owners whose share is less than 5%. We are witnessing that today in Serbia literally media owners are two or three families and this can be seen in a non-transparent way. For this reason, if this amendment to the Public Information Act is accepted and the owners, directly or indirectly, are entered in the register of media owners less than 5%, then we will certainly have one transparent media ownership structure. I hope this will also contribute to restoring citizens' confidence in the media, while at the same time reducing the possibility of possible abuses and illicit influences on the media or through the media, which we unfortunately have today. That is why I call on you, honourable MPs, to vote to amend this law, because I think by this change, I repeat, we will in one transparent way know who all media owners in Serbia are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15497	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the draft law amending the Law on corporate tax. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, who knows which time I want to give you and explain the reasons for putting on the agenda a session of the National Assembly Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. As you have seen, this law contains essentially only one amendment, one member, but in my view, with far-reaching and long-term positive effects on the economy of the Republic of Serbia. When I analyzed this law, I know that some financial experts or those who present themselves in this way claimed that precisely because of the low taxes, i.e. Low tax rates have led to growth in the fiscal deficit and public debt. We're all witnessing, fortunately, that's not exactly how some experts, so-called. economic experts, in order to court the government, have done their utmost to justify the moves that the government makes in one, in my opinion, layman's way. Basically, this 15% profit tax has negative effects, because with a 10% corporate income tax rate, we've had more investment than we've had in the last two years. Of course, profit tax was only one factor for attracting investors, because our economy, unfortunately, has a million problems and above all from the availability of a source of funding due to high interest rates and taxis to indexing loans in foreign currency. Many transicons of countries that had lower profit taxes also had larger foreign investments and had higher employment that also affected the reduction of unemployment rates. For this reason, honourable MPs, if we think well, and I believe that we all think well of Serbia here, above all to improve the economic situation, I think you should vote to supplement this law into the agenda of this National Assembly session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15499	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You have before you honourable MPs a law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. As you know, this Law entered into force in 2016 or better to say on 5 February 2016. And then, and now we've had objections to this law. At that time when this law was passed we were trying to improve our amendments to this law, but unfortunately there was no hearing or better to say there was no understanding with most MPs to amend this law. As you know, the subject of the law, among other things, is the establishment of public order in a public place and anti-legal measures, against public order and peace. I will only remind you of what determines first of all this law, the law further states that the competent authorities of the MUP, the municipal police, the inspection authorities and other competent authorities are within their jurisdiction. Given the events that took place back a year, a year and more, I came up with the idea to suggest that Article 22 be deleted, which provides for the insult of the official in the performance of his official duties. First of all, when I put up with this, I had in mind the fact that, unfortunately, the municipal police took some action a year ago beyond their powers and abuse of their powers, we even had a situation that occurred with a fatal outcome. In this way, not only was it a fatal outcome but human and civil rights were violated by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When I suggested this, first of all, I was thinking, and I'm telling you this from experience, because I've been a Republic Inspector for 11 years, and I've been dealing with all sorts of things, first of all, with things where many of my colleagues have been trying to abuse themselves in some way and their powers and my competences in doing their jobs. When I say this, I don't mean in any way to degrade neither the MUP, first of all, the police, the municipal police, the inspection authorities, because I believe that, in addition to this law and in other laws, there are sufficient powers for officials in these cases...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15501	I thank you, my colleague Bogdanovic's three minutes are up. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15502	Thank you. From the moment I proposed this bill so far, it's been a long time. Meanwhile, the Law on Agricultural Land, which the congregation majority adopted, began to apply. It began to happen exactly what we warned, when the law was passed, or a third of the best state-owned agricultural land in each local self-government was given to the use of businesses, by choice and business partners of those who are in power and in these local self-governments and in the Republic of Serbia, and all to the detriment of more than 10,000 families of farmers living exclusively from the processing of a country owned by the state. Namely, what happened? When the law was passed, one of the provisions of that law, which we were extremely opposed, was that, without any procedure, without any conditions, without any clear criteria, away from the public's eyes, a decision was made to give each municipality in Serbia, to a third of the state-owned agricultural land for a period of 33 years, to certain businessmen, legal persons. Just as we warned then, it happened, firstly, that it is the best agricultural land in the municipality and secondly, that this agricultural land is given exclusively to business partners of those in power, in these local self-governments and those in power in the Republic of Serbia. With the bill that we've given, we're actually proposing to introduce at least some procedure, to know why someone gets a country, under what conditions it gets, what it has to do to get that country, what it has to do to get that country, to know who these people are, what they have to do to do. And no, to be a situation like this, that they practically take away the best agricultural land that exists in every municipality, and then to farmers and their families what remains. In doing so, a period of 33 years is a very long period. It's a whole working century of one generation in a single, say, agricultural household. You practically, this is how you imagine you're forcing tens of thousands of families to work as workers on the agricultural land you've assigned to your business partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15503	I thank my colleague Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP proposed that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15504	Thank you. Do you know dear colleagues that the parents of the stolen children don't let them see the body of a child? Do you know they're setting them up to sign statements that they're familiar with the death of a child and they don't want to bury a child? Do you know they're being bribed to sign that they don't want to do a child's autopsy? Do you know that they're being bribed to sign off on all rights compared to their child they were told to have died? And do you know that these parents themselves have to report that their child died, which makes it difficult for them when maybe in a few years they come to themselves and realize that something was weird and maybe they want to watch the truth about their child? Do you know dear colleagues, that they get warnings that they didn't report their dead child to go to first grade primary school, because those children aren't in the books of the dead? Do you know they're getting reminders that they're injecting their children, that they're getting fines if they didn't write down the name of their child they were told died and that most of them, after tens of years, get together enough to start looking for medical records and see if something was wrong. Did you know that when they connect with the other parents, they realize that everyone's story is the same, that the child was born healthy, that at one point they told them that something was wrong with the child, that then only suddenly told them that the child had died, that they couldn't see the child, that they couldn't bury him, that it had gone to an autopsy in Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis depending on what territory the child was born in? And do you know that the deaths and the releases from the hospital that are being crossed, the carps, they're corrected by contradictory data, with completely contradictory data, no child's last name, with such obvious abuses that it's amazing. They force them, at that moment when they say their child is dead, to sign everything and they sign everything because they know that whatever they sign won't bring their child back, which seems to them at the moment when the child dies as the only solution. When they start looking for their child, when they start investigating what happened, then, dear colleagues, it's too late. It's late, among other things, and because you haven't wanted to adopt a single amendment to the Criminal Code for three and a half years, which is that the crime of stealing babies doesn't go out of date.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15505	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's MPs proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15506	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, to be clear, I don't think there's any excuse that this law has not been passed so far. There is no justification for not being adopted from 2008 to 2012, but there is no justification for not being adopted from 2012 to 2017. Besides the fact that there's no excuse, I think it's much more important that the citizens of Vojvodina suffer. Because the AP Vojvodina, thanks to someone's, and it seems to me to be everyone's, ingenious solutions from the Constitution, allegedly has the right to 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget and three weeks should be used for capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, etc. The reality, however, is completely different. Indeed, the constitution says that the AP has the right to 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but nowhere in the Constitution does it say that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide those 7%. Of course, this wouldn't be a problem if the AP Vojvodina had its incomes as it says in the Constitution and how the Constitution prescribed that within a year, the Law on Incomes of the AP Vojvodina, which I am proposing, would be adopted. In the absence of its own income, the AP Vojvodina is condemned to depend on what you say, what it gets from the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, of course, gives as much as 7% in its generosity. However, the Republic of Serbia does not give even 7%. One of the first things that you did when you came to power is that you said it wasn't 7% of the revenue side of the budget, 7% of the expenditure side of the budget, but 7% of the tax revenues. Dear colleagues, 7% of tax revenues are not 7% of the budget. It's not some kind of money that someone in Vojvodina is going to eat, spend or pay for themselves. It's the money used to help pregnant women, maternity mothers, aid for out-of-body insemination. It's the money used to build apartments for young scientists. That's the money used to encourage agriculture that you've reduced three or four times since you came to power. These are the money used for schools in Vojvodina, for hospitals in Vojvodina, for health homes. It's all that money that you've for some reason stopped giving, and now, in a desire to show off a big surplus, you don't even want to pass this law that's our responsibility, both yours and mine and any of us sitting here and there's no excuse for not being adopted before.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15507	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Does the People's Parliament, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15508	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, on the fifth working day of the National Assembly in 2017, otherwise on the 131st day of 2017, I will try again to get your support for putting on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of local self-government. For these four working days, the National Assembly has considered two laws, and at this meeting we will have only one that, since the government has not proposed almost one law in this year, the MP proposed. Obviously, the draft laws proposed by the MPs can come to the agenda, but only if they come from the ruling coalition's MPs. It is bad and gives right to those citizens who are dissatisfied with the work of Parliament and point their finger at all of us by saying that we do not justify and deserve to be here and not represent and defend their interests. The Law on Local Self-Government was passed at the beginning of the autumn session last year and then the exemption from income tax, which is 80% in the old law, remained with local self-government, municipalities and cities, Belgrade 70%. That percentage was reduced by 4 and 6%, respectively. It was then explained by the minister that cities and municipalities could hardly wait for this reduction, that five billion dinars less, as much as they would be transferred to the accounts of cities and municipalities, they don't really need and that these five billion would be used to strengthen the republican budget. We suggest that this percentage decrease, or return to that percentage that was before. We understand and, let's say, we trust the ministers and representatives of municipalities and cities who said they shouldn't have those five billion, but we believe that these five billion, as much as this change of government law has been transferred to the Republic budget, should be reduced by reducing the income tax from 150 to 109, in order to relieve the economy and what has been promised years ago, and every year more times in these five years, the government finally begins to realise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15509	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15510	As I have already said, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government and the proposal for this law are linked. Namely, the profit tax rate has not changed once in the last five years of the government's term of office and is 10%, while total net income allocations paid in Serbia by each employer are 67%, on taxes, on contributions, on health and pension insurance. At that rate, Serbia's economy is one of the largest and most competitive. Years ago we hear appeals from people from the economy to do something about this and hear the answers from the government – yes, yes, we will now, we will start with reforms, etc. One of the last such announcements was a few days ago from the outgoing prime minister and the incoming president of the Republic of Serbia who said -- yes, here, there will be a sure reduction in the income tax of citizens, 1, 2, 3 or 4%, as far as we are told by the IMF. I now, fellow MPs, urge you to gather courage and support this proposal, without permission and amin of the IMF, which says that by 1% from 10 we reduce to 9% of the income tax of citizens. It's a minimum of what the President said when he came to the table that he should and could be done. He spoke up to 4%. Let's wait for the new government and see if the IMF approves anything. But let's, if nothing else, hear that voice and reduce the tax rate of income tax by 1%. It is symbolic of the total amount, but it sends a signal that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or not the Government, I apologize, but the National Assembly, because this is not a proposal from the Government but mine, and it can get and only be adopted by the voices of all of us, hears the voice of people who create added value in Serbia and goes into this discharge. This discharge will allow more resources to any employer, who can use it and raise salaries to employees, to reinvest, to develop his job. I think it's the only way to create economic growth, not this colorful lie the government has been telling us about for five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15511	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there was no one who was abstentioned for—for the 12 messengers of the people, against—there was no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15512	I am taking advantage of the opportunity we have under the Rules of Procedure that at the beginning of each regular session, the MP proposes to amend and supplement the agenda and some laws, precisely out of the desire for citizens of Serbia, if they follow the transfer from the Assembly and if there is one at all, to allow them to hear that there is a different policy than that of the government of the Republic of Serbia continuously, day by day, and only it promotes on channels, information emissions from the Public Media Service of Serbia. And this Public Media Service of Serbia must, according to the law adopted in 2016, pay all citizens, because then, despite the promise that it will not happen and that the tax on the electricity number financed by the Public Media Service will be abolished, the tax and the imposition will be returned. And not only is it returned, but the law prevents you from freeing yourself from paying that fee if you have more electric numbers on your behalf within a single household. So, households that have an electric number on an auxiliary facility or garage must pay a public service fee based on each of these numbers and there is no possibility under the law that these fees may be released. What we are proposing is that citizens of Serbia, a taxpayer, a natural or legal person, can only pay this tax once, not pay by number, because that is not the essence of the law. The law is funded by Serbian citizens, not electric numbers. We think that if there is no promise that the public media service tax will be abolished, if it is reintroduced, if none of that promise is made, even if we can free the citizens from paying more than once what I believe a large number of people are using, because the Public Media Service programme is such that citizens, at least a large number of them, do not believe, are watching it. They can't be properly informed, they can only hear one side, only one policy, and then, of course, the results of the elections in such misinformation can only produce one result.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15513	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there was no one who was abstentioned for—for the 12 messengers of the people, against—there was no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15514	For more than a year and a half, the Social Democratic Party Group has proposed a draft law on the suspension of the temporary arrangement of the way pensions are paid. Democratic Party MPs and the Dveri Parliamentary Group also joined their initiatives and have similar bill proposals. The essence of all these laws is to correct the injustice when two and a half years ago, a number of pensioners, for no reason whatsoever, explain why the 25,000 dinar border was set, over which all pensions were reduced by 20% and 25%, respectively. And what is characteristic of this law, which in its name has the word "temporary" adjustment of how pensions are paid is that this "temporary" in the policy of this government and the intention of this government, unfortunately, becomes permanent. When this law was passed, the Minister of Labour at the time, and the current, unfortunately, Mr. Vulin said that a provision from the law he was talking about was deleted, when he originally arrived from the government, that the law would last three years, because before that deadline conditions would be obtained that the law would cease to apply, apparently, to give up. In the explanation of the government sent to the MPs not to accept this bill, it states that this measure has been established to allow the long-term financial stability of the pension scheme. And in the government's announcements, ministers, prime ministers and future presidents, there is no word saying that this injustice will be corrected, that pensioners who have been reduced to pensions in 2014, that they will cease the validity of this law, that their pensions will be returned to the same level, and what is the essence of our bill is that they will also have a difference that has not been paid to them within the next year of the entry into force of this law. What's done, that pensioner kidnapping, I believe one day they'll come for payment. As much as the Constitutional Court is silent, I believe there will be a legal path and that people will exercise their right, and then we will have big financial problems to bring it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15515	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The National MP, Marko Djurisic, proposed that the agenda of the session be supplemented by the points – draft law on the proposed law. Does the MP want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15516	Thank you. Here is a bill that is not political, which has no economic implications for the Republic of Serbia's budget, but would have huge, if adopted, great positive consequences for Parliament's reputation and way of working. If we had one of these laws and we had to edit Parliament's work in the way that this law provides, we wouldn't be in a situation where today, 131 days in 2017, we're only the fifth day working in this Parliament and we probably won't be working for a while, because we're about to have a government downturn and a new government election. And we'd have had a much better result than if we had adopted only two laws in the four working days that we've been doing so far. Letter and number, two. At the beginning of each of the three regular sessions, the ruling majority rejected over 60 drafts of various laws proposed by MPs, mostly from the opposition. That when the bill comes from MPs of the ruling majority, as we could see today, an emergency procedure is put on the agenda. The draft law on billing should make it impossible for bad practice to be adopted, laws adopted by emergency procedure without public debate, without public stakeholders having insight into what the National Assembly is planning to adopt and how it plans to change or otherwise regulate their lives. They would avoid a situation where, almost as a rule, these laws, adopted by emergency procedure, take effect by emergency procedure, not by the Constitution prescribed for eight days, but by the next day after the publication of the "Official Messenger". All this makes Serbia's legal system insecure. All this makes Serbia an insecure place for foreign investment and every other investment. All this makes Serbia a country with the lowest growth rate in the region. One of the smallest growth rates in low-developed countries, unfortunately in which Serbia belongs. If we don't do something and arrange our legal system, there won't be any economic development, there won't be any economic growth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15517	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The MP, Marko Djurisic, suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Value Added Taxation. Does the MP, Marko Djurisic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15518	Thank you, Chairman. And this law has been in the process since September 2015, which means almost two years. The essence of this law, I believe my fellow MPs know that but they keep refusing to put the bill on the agenda and to talk about it and adopt it, is that the value added tax, or the value added tax, is reduced from 20%, which is the general rate, to 10%. As is the case with some other kind of product. The measure, in our opinion, should primarily lead to a debate on the difficult state of the family, the material condition of families with small children in Serbia. In which all ways the state of Serbia can help them. Persistently refusing to look away from these problems, unfortunately, we have tragic consequences. From year to year, the number of young people and people leaving Serbia is growing more and more, as well as the negative growth rate. Every year there is an increasing difference between the deceased and newborn citizens of Serbia. I don't know how much longer this government is willing to turn its head from this problem. For five years, this law and various other laws have not come to the congregation's agenda and are not discussed. They are announced only in the campaign when it is due to go ahead of the elections, and then, in a senseless propaganda, they repeat lies that will soon change the law and allow various benefits to families with small children, unfortunately, elections pass, nothing happens, things remain the way they were. That is why I call on you fellow MPs to do something, to do this small and symbolic act in the effect that it has in itself, but we are showing the intention that we want as MPs, representatives of all Serbian citizens, to catch up with the problem of the white plague, as said in the Republic of Serbia, and we see how one negative trend that has been in existence for a long time in Serbia can be reversed. It's a question of the future and responsibility of each of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15519	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The National MP, Marko Djurisic, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Excise Act. Does the MP want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15520	Thank you, Chairman. The essence of this law is to introduce excise on sweetened drinks and artificial juices. I've talked about it before, the World Health Organization declared an epidemic of obesity several years ago based on data from all over the world. As one reason, she listed poor nutrition in children and consumption of large amounts of unhealthy food and sweetened drinks and artificial juices. This data in the world says that the number of children suffering from obesity is doubled and is 4.9%. Unfortunately, in Serbia, these figures are much more dramatic, so sometimes it is said that every fourth student is overweight. Another study says that every third or somewhere is every fifth, and there was almost some text that every other child had a obesity problem. Instead of Serbia doing something about this, that as Hungary, Mexico, Norway, the United States and many other countries have imposed a burden on artificially sweetened drinks, the government is doing something quite the opposite. The finance minister who has personally said that he does not mind but behind this stands the big lobby, puts himself in the position of these lobbies and participates in the promotion of coke in Serbia's business story in Serbia. It is not a disputed business of coke in Serbia, but I think the concerns of the Government of the Republic of Serbia should primarily be its citizens. As Serbia's citizens' health is threatened by tobacco and tobacco products and there are certain excise duties, we believe it is also time to introduce a excise on sweetened drinks. It is symbolic according to our proposal, it is five dinars per litre, and the resources received by the team should be spent on the education of young people and providing a healthy meal in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15521	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. There is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15522	Since the beginning of the public sector, the public sector wage system law has had one major deficiency. This inadequacy is reflected in the fact that the definition of the public sector is wrong in our opinion. Public sector as defined by this law excludes public enterprises, the National Bank of Serbia and the Public Media Service. It is those places, institutions, where there is the biggest difference in the salaries of employees who do the same work at the National Bank of Serbia and in education or in some public enterprise and in health care. Without the inclusion of these institutions within the framework of this law, there is no real reform of the public sector. The introduction of payment classes as announced for the beginning of this year, and then miraculously delayed for another year, will not produce results and correct pay gaps for the same public sector business unless the whole public sector is covered by this law. Our proposal is to introduce the law into the public sector employees of public enterprises, employees of the National Bank and the Public Media Service. In our opinion, this law introduces one bad principle and we believe that it should be changed, which is the principle of putting above all budgetary constraints, i.e. meeting the budget as the most important priority in the work, not the functions for which there is a particular body and work to be done and the interests of citizens to protect. It's one bad principle, a bad manners, and we think it should change. The law has put public sector employees at risk, and they have felt it on their skin for a year, as this law has been passed. Unfortunately, in addition to all the stories about reforms, the only thing that doesn't seem to be growing in Serbia is wages, so instead of the 500-year-old average earnings in Serbia, 400 are promised several months ago, and then there are not 400, but 383 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15523	I thank my colleague Đurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there was no one with abstention, 13 MPs against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Culture. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15524	Thank you, Chairman. The Law on Culture adopted by the National Assembly a little over a year ago has an inadequacy that we, with this proposal on amendments and additions, want to correct. It's about two things, one thing is that as a cultural activity and an area of cultural activity, the law defines art photography as well. This existed in the Bill of Law, and then in the Bill adopted by the Ministry and sent to the National Assembly, it was deleted. We believe that people dealing with artistic photography deserve to be covered by this law, that they are given the rights that this law provides and that they are not at the scene of arguments by the minister of the time, fortunately the former, who refused to find this proposal in law. The second thing is to recognise a lifelong monthly income for a top-notch contribution to national culture. We have proposed a solution to the law as it was done for top athletes, that when a cultural worker gets recognition of the world's or European character he gets the right to a national pension. Automaticly by law, not as currently foreseen by the decision of a minister who can be positive, but can also be negative. We believe that such a measure would facilitate the work of cultural workers in Serbia, improve the difficult situation in culture, reverse one bad trend that is becoming less and less isolated year after year for cultural manifestations and cultural action, and hopefully it has broken down that bad practice that we have witnessed in recent days, and that this little funding available in the republican budget and budget of local self-government is shared, not based on the value of someone's knowledge and work, but solely based on party membership and closeness with ruling parties. We have scandalous decisions in the competitions for the allocation of cultural resources from the fields of culture in competitions both in the Republic and in the cities and municipalities of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15525	I thank my colleague Đurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there was no one with abstention who voted for it. There was no one against 15 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15526	I am glad that fellow Social Democrats Vojvodina League colleagues also joined our initiative to finally find a proposal for a law on financial support for families with children. We passed this law more than a year ago and we got a response from the Ministry, Minister Vulin, in charge of this area that the government is working on this law. Unfortunately, the government has been working on this law for all five years, as far as the ruling majority exists in this or that form, for five years various working groups have been considering it for months, but there is no such proposal. Again in the campaign ahead of these presidential elections, we had a promise that this law would be passed quickly and that many benefits would be granted to families with children. Unfortunately, it was another false promise from the ruling parties, because there is no law, neither in the procedure nor today on the agenda. I call upon you to do something, that this law, in which there is nothing disputed, is neither by the Minister nor by the Government. When the prime minister was here, once upon a time, he said, "Give me a bill." I personally delivered it to him even though the bill of law went through procedure to the government, but there was no answer. During that time, the situation in Serbia is getting worse year after year. Serbia, unfortunately, is the first in Europe at the risk of poverty. Someone says 24.5% of the population, sometimes statistics say 36%. Serbia has the largest gap between the rich and the poor. In Serbia, more than one third of children are threatened with poverty, and we do not have an obvious answer, because I fear that behind this presentation, when we vote, there will be no bell and this bill will not get most of it on the agenda. Well, we can't adopt everything that's screaming here, we can adopt better solutions, and we can adopt some solutions, change a law that hasn't been changed since 2011 and change the situation, the bad situation in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15527	I'm putting the bill to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in a part of the town known as Savala, 25 April 2016. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15528	Thank you. Instead of discussing this proposal a year ago, given that more than a year has passed since private property was destroyed in Savamali illegally by masked, unknown persons, since the same masked persons, the unknown, still unknown, have been deprived of Serbian citizens of freedom and have been deprived of their personal property. More than a year has passed since police were able to escape those masked bandits and call the police for help, deafen their calls for help and intervention. And today, a year and more later, there's not a single answer from the competent authority that should be conducting an investigation into what exactly happened, and there's heard a lot of it, most of it, from the Prime Minister, who first said they were complete idiots, and then he said that the people at the top of the city were responsible. So, complete idiots from the top of the city government. But to this day, we have no answer as to who they are, as they are called, on whose functions they are doing so, as we do not have an answer to which they have ordered the police not to act that night, realizes their constitutional obligation to protect citizens, protects the law, because the only one has the right to a monopoly force and decides to suspend the state of Serbia for several hours and in whose interest. It seems to me that the public knows all the answers to all the questions, and who's in charge of the Savamale Fantasy, and whose interest has been done, and even who were the perpetrators, even though they wore masks, but the legal authorities or authorities still don't respond, and until they respond, we're going to look for the formation of a survey board.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15529	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games of Happiness. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15530	Comrades and colleagues, MPs, I know we're almost in the fifth hour of the agenda, but I believe there's a very important proposal ahead of you and I'd like to ask for your attention for a few minutes. In fact, we have heard more than once that rerouting some budget part of the money would be necessary for the treatment, not only of rare diseases, but of the treatment of diseases and conditions that cannot be treated in the Republic of Serbia, it is an official name. This proposal to amend the law on gambling gives us the right solution to speed it up. According to current law, 60% of gambling revenues flow directly into the Republic of Serbia's budget, the remaining 40% are deliberately defined in five areas. Among other things, for the financing of the Red Cross, Sports and Youth, projects at the level of local self-government and for the treatment of diseases and conditions that cannot be treated in the Republic of Serbia, within 40%, only 5% is foreseen for treatment as I said, diseases and conditions that cannot be treated in our country. My proposal is going to start to change proportions, i.e. starting relationship 60 to 40, as it is now in the redistribution of gambling revenues, so from bookmakers, poker machines, and I suggest that the ratio be 50 to 50% of the flow directly into the budget, and that 40% increase by 10% and 50%, respectively, to go for these purpose purposes, and among other things, for this type of treatment, and that within those 40, or increased 50%, only five percent of those diseases are expected to be increased by five times, so 25%. With all the respect for sports and youth and various projects at the level of municipalities and cities, I hold as, I believe, all of you that the lives of the youngest are of particular importance, and that, as we have heard many times, we do not need SMS and humanitarian concerts, too, with all the respect of citizens' initiatives to deal with this business, to provide treatment for our fellow citizens, the youngest especially. We have just had intense calls on all social networks, including on televisions with national frequencies, to help little girl Theodore get help just by suffering from a disease that cannot be treated in the Republic of Serbia. So this change of law would increase the funds fivefold.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15531	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament's Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15532	Thank you. My proposal actually comes down to going back to the state that preceded the amendments to this law, in the fall of the National Assembly, and when part of the income from the tax on the profits of municipalities and cities was taken or taken in favour of the republican budget. This, as we all know, is the safest tax revenue at the level of municipalities and cities, and it was absolutely incredible that it was taken to locals for the benefit of the Republic, while on the other hand it remained the responsibilities that were not reduced, so the responsibilities of municipalities and cities remained as much as before, but the funds were reduced. This proposal to amend the law requires that, therefore, the reduction be returned to the original state and that the municipalities and cities remain 80% of the income tax and that only 20% go to the republican budget. With this proposal to amend the law, I demand that the reduction be returned to its original state and that the municipalities and cities remain 80% of the income tax, and only 20% in the republican budget. I must say that it is difficult for me to reconcile with the fact that I know that these increased funds, if this proposal is adopted, will be misused, as always by the ruling Serbian Progressive Party and its coalition partners, who are mostly in power in all municipalities and cities in the country, although it is very difficult for me to reconcile with the fact that significant budget funds will be allocated for what we witnessed during the last campaign and for the rallyers who, of course, are transported from the public budgets of the locals to meetings of the ruling coalition, for the buses themselves, for the bots that work in the working time, for the "sands", for people in the "dor" campaign, who, with promises of work contracts, also from the public budget, collect capillaries for so-called. funds for public information, such as "Informer" which, for example, receives funding in my city of Panchev. I understand that Informer has a project, but it certainly does not need to be financed from any public budget, especially the local. So I ask you to pay attention, colleagues and colleagues, to this proposal and to really constructively approach the management of public budgets, to help local self-governments become their own over their budgets and not depend on the power center of sometimes political, sometimes purely financial.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15533	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting the manifestation of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. Does the People's Parliament want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15534	Thank you. I have to notice a small yet important and positive step. Compared to my explanation at the previous session to date, we had a range of days when no one ever appeared in the National Assembly, waving at the photographs of other people's children by stegmatizing those children, but it is time to take a step further and to really commit ourselves to the real content of this amendment, and thus the practically ruling majority would show that it is precisely behind the first point of exposure of its president, which is that he cherishs not only European, but also civilization values by which everyone is equal, regardless of national, religious and sexual orientation. (Marian Risticevic: What is this? ) Therefore, my proposal focuses on the fact that it is punishable that neo-Nazi and fascist symbols stand out and that it is punishable to organise manifestations of neo-Nazi and fascist and which are directed against the LGBT community. Marko Atlagic: What is this? ) So, in the current law in Article 5, this is forbidden only in relation to... I see it's not clear what the law is called at all, it was a confusion obviously last time. Therefore, the ban on neo-Nazi and fascist symbols is only punishable if it is directed against national minorities and against churches and religious communities. With this proposal, Article 5 should also be extended to members of the LGBT community. So, in the future, there will be punishment for the neo-Nazi and fascist manifestations, organizations and events, the emphasis of symbols against the LGBT community. I think it's time you showed as MPs for most of this European maturity and civilization maturity that they're all equal, regardless of national, religious and sexual orientation. As I said, it is, among other things, the priority of the government that you support and it is time for that equality to be recognised in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15535	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Does the People's Parliament want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15536	Thank you. This proposal to amend the Criminal Code is actually changing the amendment that you did not allow me to explain when the Criminal Code was last amended here in the National Assembly and when you deceived me, I would say, by explaining that it was against the constitution. As we see now, it is not true, because it is exactly the same as being translated into a change of criminal code and it has been perfectly neatly passed the regular procedure and, behold, it has gained the conditions to find itself on the agenda and that I have the right to explain it, but I think the political problem was to allow at that moment the explanation of this amendment that would last two minutes, fortunately, now I have three minutes, so, well, more time for what you did not allow me to take advantage of in a two-minute period. It is, therefore, a new member of the Criminal Code under which it has become a criminal offence, therefore, punishable, denial of genocide and war crimes, but in this current law, it is only war crimes and genocides that stemmed from the verdict of domestic courts and the European Court of Justice. This restrictive choice, I don't know on what basis, the Justice Minister tried to explain, that all other international courts dealing with genocide and war crimes, that they are ad hoc courts and that they cannot be included in the law, which absolutely has no basis, because only the duration of the court's work has been committed, and not that their decisions have been questioned. Therefore, decisions are legal, exactly the same as when it comes to permanent courts, except that they are armed in terms of work, not in terms of validity or in the question of judgments and decisions. My proposal is to extend this member to the Criminal Code, along with two other courts, i.e. the World Court of Justice and known in the short version of the International Court of War Crimes in the former Yugoslavia, or the Hague Court, because I deeply believe and I am sure that for the healing of this post-conflict and post-war society and for the face of the past it is extremely important to face the crimes committed on our behalf, and not only do we face and understand the face of crimes on other continents.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15537	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinović has proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on: the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (First Program Loan for Development Policy in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty "Improvement of Law-Making bodies B" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, the Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of members of the High Council of the Court of Justice of the Public Faculty, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of the President of the Court of Justice, the draft public election of the public decision of the General of the General of the Parliament of the European Union, the General of the European Parliament of the European Union of the European Union, the Council of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, the European Union of the European Union and the European Union, the European Union, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union, the European Union, the European Union and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council and the Council, the Council, and the Council, the Council, the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament and the Council, of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council, of the Council of the Council of the Council, and of the European Parliament of the Council, of the Council, of the European Parliament and the Council, of the Council, of the Council, of the Council, of the Council, of the Council, and of the European Parliament and of the Council, of the Council, of the European Parliament and the The Act on State measure and catastro (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No. 72/09/18/10, 65/13, 15/15-US and 96/15). Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. ) (Marko Djurisic: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15538	Thank you. I find the proposal contrary to Article 157. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, which states - The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws on the agenda of the same session, and mutually conditional solutions on them, with the decision on each proposal being made separately. So in this proposal, we have one law, two laws to confirm the agreement, and everything else is appointments and elections. That is why I do not believe that we can unite the debate on the laws, on the election of public prosecutorial functions, on the functions of the President of the Court, on the functions of the Judges, we cannot bring together the debate on the authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 82 and that there are other mechanisms for this. If you want this Parliament to be inactive or to work shorter, you have a Article 95, which speaks of the possibility of a shortened debate, when elections and appointments are on the agenda proposal, when international agreements are on the agenda proposal, when there are fewer amendments to the law. So you can do all that, but you can't pool a debate on 43 points of the agenda. I'm not talking about numbers here at all. I'm talking about what's coming together. The Rules of Procedure do not refer to the possibility of unifying elections to functions with the law, but exclusively to the possibility that laws whose mutual solutions are conditioned and linked, that only then can the debate be united.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15539	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's a suggestion. So you've been looking for something in advance, and all MPs' proposals are being voted on. Therefore, there are no prior injuries. Parliamentarian Aleksandar Martinovic's proposal will be adopted or not adopted, yes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Marco Djurisic: They cannot adopt something that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. So when the injury was done directly. I would like to put this proposal by Ambassador Aleksandr Martinovic to join the debate. I am finalising the vote for the proposal of MP Aleksandr Martinovic and I am announcing: there is no vote for – 139 against – 15 abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15540	Thank you. You have violated Article 27(2) and Article 157. So you couldn't even put this point to a vote because Article 157 clearly states that the agenda points can only be united in the case of related laws or mutually conditional laws. So you'll admit that you're discussing the appointment of prosecutors, which is a very important thing, you can't relate to financial aid laws. Those two things have nothing to do with each other. Also, the Law on Courts has nothing to do with the Law on selecting prosecutors. Connecting this together makes it practically impossible to discuss, since each of these things requires a special debate. The request, i.e. the decision to place prosecutors in one, the Law on Courts in another and individual decisions, i.e. to confirm the credit agreement at specific points of the agenda, may be brought together. This is how you connect incompatible into one item of the agenda just to save time. In this way, the National Assembly does not perform its duties, but serves only to confirm what the executive branch of government has delivered to the congregation. So, you shouldn't have allowed at all to vote on this, because if we vote on things that are explicitly forbidden by the Rules of Procedure, it's like now putting the agenda on the table to say it's today, or it's night, and it's not night, it's day. The congregation cannot declare things that are impossible, as Article 157 clearly tells us. In this way, you are truly completely undermining the National Assembly under the will of the executive government, which is exactly the opposite of what a division of power in a democratic society means.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15541	Your Honor, you're not right at all, at least in your own explanation. I'm just taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, which is to put every MP to the vote, so how the MPs decide. I also put forward proposals for me to be replaced, and there are only 30 MPs who demand it, and I have to put it to the vote, although the obvious will of the majority is that it does not want to replace the president of parliament. There's no more eclectic example than that, and I have to put it on the agenda. Therefore, there are no, except some physical force, which I never apply in my life to anyone... You have no right. I have to explain, so I explained it my way. I don't fall under your influence to recite what you'd like to hear. Thank you, MPs. (Sasa Radulovic: To vote. ) Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours because of the long definition of the agenda that we had, and because of the need, and you heard the explanation at the beginning of why we called a session within a short time, to bring the act from the agenda of this session and to select judicial functions. Writers heard the vote for the violation of the Rules of Procedure sought by MP Sasa Radulovic. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposals we have heard, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda as a whole, and I would ask the MPs to vote if they agree with the agenda. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 137, v - 10, abstention – one, 21 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year, in general. I ask the service to prepare in the break the consolidated text of the agenda. Dear Members, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a 60-minute break and we're going to continue at 15.45 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work further on the established agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the meeting today by Nela Kuburović, Minister of Justice, Dr Dusan Vujović, Finance Minister Nenad Milović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Milina Filipović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Slavica Jelac, Assistant Minister of Justice Branko Drčević, V.d. Director of the Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance, Michela Nikolic, adviser to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Prof. Dr. Sima Avramović, Chairman of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia, Ivan Jovičić, election member of the High Council of the Judges' Office, Tatjan Lagundzija and Sandra Kulezic, election members of the State Council of Prosecutors, Aleksandar Maleševic, an independent adviser in the administrative office of the State Council of Prosecutors and Vesna Janjic, an independent adviser at the Department of Status Affairs of the Judges of the High Council of Justice. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on the agenda proposals for items from points 1 to 42 and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you that under Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs and members of the parliamentary groups. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1) and Article 195, Article 201(2) and Article 202(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principled Single Search on the Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty on the Law of the Court of Justice, the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the position of a member of the High Court of Justice of the Chamber of Justice, which was submitted by the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice and the Local Court of Justice, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the Public Prosecutor's office in the Court in Nis, which was submitted by the Court of Justice of Justice to the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the European Union (C). The Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro, which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislatives of the National Assembly. Does the Proposer, or representatives of the Proposer, want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted, as a People's MP, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges. I want to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia for giving a positive opinion on this bill. The bill is relatively short, it has four members, and I won't take up much of your time, but I want to point out a few basic things about this draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges. I've submitted this bill for two reasons. The first reason is to further highlight the special role and special place in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia as the Supreme Court of Cassation, as the highest court in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected for a period of five years and according to current legal solutions, or according to the current Law on Judges, the presidents of all other judges in the Republic of Serbia are also elected for a period of five years. I felt it was more logical that it was more in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to make a difference between the President of the Supreme Court, or his term of office, than the presidents of other courts in the Republic of Serbia, so I suggested that the President of the Court be elected for a period of four years and that he could be re-elected as president of the same court. On the other hand, the important reason that motivated me to submit this bill is to ensure continuity in the work of the president of the courts in the Republic of Serbia. I think it's important here to point out that we are talking about the presidents of the courts as holders of the judiciary, not the presidents of the courts as acting judges in specific court cases, criminal, litigation, or others. We're talking about the presidents of the court as people in charge of the court's affairs. The affairs of the judicial administration are affairs that are not directly related to the exercise of judicial functions in the most important sense of the word. Therefore, the affairs of the judicial administration do not consist in trial and judgment, but they involve a whole series of cases without which the judge's office itself could not have imagined. That is why it is important that when you elect the president of the court, and in the meantime, he ends the years of life he can retire, to allow him to retire, not when he ends his working life, but when his term is up. I think it is very important to ensure the smooth work of all courts in the Republic of Serbia, in order to ensure continuity in the functioning of the judicial administration, because you yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as you representatives of the highest judicial posts in the Republic of Serbia, will be the President of the Court, and in particular be the President, for example the High Court or President of the Court of Appeal, is one rather delicate job. The requirement and organisational skills require that a whole series of measures be taken by staff, material, financial, administrative and technical and other natures, which are necessary for judges themselves in courts to do their job. What is also important to point out is that on the presidents of the courts the highest responsibility in respect of the Rules of Procedure. As you know, the Rules of Procedure is a very serious act, who read it could see that it was quite extensive. Apply to the end the Rules of Procedure, and in particular in these higher court cases, I do not think it is a bit of a simple job and that, among other things, it should be possible for the Presidents of the Court to make an exception to the rule that the President of the Court will retire when he is a working age, i.e. to allow him to retire until the end of the term of office of the President of the Court. The government of the Republic of Serbia is once again thanking the government of the Republic of Serbia for what I have proposed. What I also want to point out is about Article 4. And if the principle debate is not an amendment debate, I can say that I will accept my colleague Peter Petrovic's amendment to the entry into force of this bill, i.e. I will accept the amendment that the law enters into force the next day of publication in the Republic of Serbia, estimating the argument given in the amendment by Mr Peter Petrovic. Of course, if my colleagues have any questions, I'm willing to answer those questions, and to you, Mr. Arsic, thank you for giving me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15544	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15545	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today certainly the most extensive and most of the agenda concerns the election of public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, and that of public prosecutors in 30 prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. You have before you a list of candidates who have been proposed for the election to perform the War Crimes Prosecutor's office, a list of candidates to perform public prosecutors in four senior public prosecutors and a list of candidates to perform the functions of public prosecutors in 25 primary prosecutors. By order of Article 159, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the public prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government and that the mandate of the public prosecutor takes six years and that the same person can be re-elected to the post. By order of Article 74, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office was also specified by the constitutional provision, so that the government was empowered to propose one or more candidates to the National Assembly for election to the public prosecutor's office and from a list of candidates that determines the State's larger prosecutors. Just acting in accordance with the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State's Chief Prosecutors announced three competitions during the previous year and this contest for the election of war crimes prosecutors, for the election of public prosecutors for senior public prosecutors and the general public prosecutor's office in the Republic of Serbia. The first visit to elect public prosecutors in Serbia's senior and primary public prosecutors was announced on September 9th 2015. Consent to Article 28. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, the Council educated the Commission which established the timing and completeness of the application, as well as whether the candidates meet the general and special conditions for the election of a public prosecutor prescribed by the provisions of Article. 76th and 77th. Public prosecutor's law. At a session held on 29 September, it was higher in accordance with the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of the expertise and competence and dignity of candidates in the process of proposing the election of public prosecutors to the Commission for the assembly and evaluation of the written test and evaluation of the organisation's programme and the promotion of public prosecutors' work. The Commission has five members, of which three are the public prosecutor's office holders and two experts. The Commission's members were named after the competition by Gordana Janicjevic, deputy public prosecutor Milan Kalac, public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, Miljana Doncic, public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac, Aleksandar Vujčić, judge of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade and Nenad Vujic, director of the Justice Academy. As you know, a session of the National Assembly held on 21 September 2015 on the basis of the above-mentioned competition and the list of candidates submitted by the State Greater Prosecutor's Office, out of the 85 public prosecutor's posts, the Government's proposals for 54 public prosecutorial posts were discussed, for which the National Assembly made the choice. The remaining public prosecutor's office was found necessary to hold subsequent talks with the registered candidates and then submit a list for the remaining candidates to the government of the Republic of Serbia. It was precisely at a session held on 23 September 2016 that the Council established a list of candidates for the election of public prosecutors in 21 basic and four senior public prosecutors. At the same session, it was decided to repeat the election in the main prosecutor's office in Bor, Vrbas, Bruce and Somboro, which is why a new ad was announced on 30 September 2016 for the election of public prosecutors in those basic, public prosecutors. After the committee in charge established the completeness and timely application of the State Major Prosecutor's Office on 14 November 2016, it educated the Commission for the assembly and evaluation of the written test and evaluation of the organisation's programmes and the improvement of public prosecutors' work. Members of the commission following this contest were appointed Janko Lazarevic, Supreme Cassation Court Judge Ana Milosevic, Judge of the Higher Court in Belgrade Mladen Nenadic, Prosecutor for Organized Crime Stanislav Dukic, member of the State Council of Prosecutors, and Milan Petrovic, Deputy Prosecutor for War Crimes. On the basis of the evaluation of the expertise and training of candidates and the quality assessment of the presented programme, the Commission has drawn up a ranking of candidates according to the number of points received. At a session held on January 25th this year, the Council set out a list of candidates for the election of four other public prosecutors, which it delivered to the government. On the basis of the lists of candidates submitted, the government has set out proposals for the election of public prosecutors in four senior and 25 primary prosecutors. For the more public prosecutor's office in Panchev, two candidates were proposed, namely Gordana Colic, deputy public prosecutor at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Pancheva, and Nebojsa Zivkovic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Three candidates – Momcilo Dedic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and Natasa Trninic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as well as Aleksandra Grbovic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, were proposed for the more Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec. For a more public prosecutor's office in Zajecar, Ivan Markovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar, was proposed. For a more public prosecutor's office in Piroth, Sonja Nesic, deputy public prosecutor at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Piroth, was proposed. When it comes to the election of public prosecutors in the main prosecutors, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed the following candidates: The main public prosecutor's office in Bor was proposed by Zivan Djordjevic, deputy public prosecutor at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office. Milan Mihajlovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Bruce, was proposed for the main public prosecutor's office. Two candidates, Aleksandar Amidzic, deputy public prosecutor at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, as well as Branislav Lepovic, are being proposed for the main public prosecutor in Novi Sad. Vesna Dražić Mihaljevic, deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sombor, was proposed for the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sombor. Mile Nikolic, deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo, was proposed for the main public prosecutor in Valjevo. The government has proposed two candidates for the main public prosecutor's office in the Great Plan. As a subsequent announcement has been made that a candidate has been found to lose his job and retire, Slavica Ivanovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Velika Plana, is proposed to elect a public prosecutor. The main public prosecutor's office in Mionica was proposed by Snezana Jovanovic, deputy in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Mionica. Two candidates, Ivan Konatar, Deputy Public Prosecutor at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as well as Aleksandar Djordjevic, Deputy Public Prosecutor at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, are being proposed for the public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Mladenov. Nenad Stefanovic, deputy public prosecutor in the Third General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, is proposed to the general prosecutor in the General Prosecutor's Office in Panchev. The main public prosecutor's office in Loznica is proposed by Vesna Vesilic, deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Loznica. Sofia Vitomirovic, deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Ruma, was proposed. Two candidates, Slobodanka Neskovic Bratuša, deputy public prosecutor at the Stari Paza Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as Vladimir Nikolic, deputy public prosecutor at the same prosecutor's office, were proposed for the attorney general at the main public prosecutor's office in Stari Pazova. Nebojsa Jankovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo, is proposed for the basic public prosecutor's office. For a public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Despotovac, Prvoslav Antic, deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Despotovac, was proposed. Four candidates have been proposed for the main public prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar, Zivan Djordjevic, deputy prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Kralje, Jovan Milanovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar, Hadbi Alibasic, deputy prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar, Nermin Koško, deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. Radomir Janackovic, deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Petrovac, Mlava, was proposed. Two candidates, Jasminka Boskovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Prepolje, as well as Petko Pucarevic, the deputy prosecutor at the General Prosecutor's Office in Prepolje, were proposed. For a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Aleksinec, Ivan Mitrovica, deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Alexinac, is proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Vranj Public Prosecutor's Office, Milica Petkovic, deputy prosecutor at the Vranj Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed, while Slavisa Dimitrijevic, deputy prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Kursumlia, Ranko Maksimovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin, Miloslav Srekovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan. Two candidates Aleksandar Radosavljevic and Sasa Djokic, both of the deputy public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, were proposed for a public prosecutor in Nis. For a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Piroth, Miljana Rangelovic, Deputy Public Prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Piroth and the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje, is proposed by Jelena Boskovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. As you can see, for some prosecutors, the government has proposed more candidates, while in some cases it is proposed one candidate for the election. The government's decision depended solely on the list submitted by the State's major prosecutors, namely whether the Council provided the government with a list of one candidate or more candidates for a particular prosecutor's office. When it comes to the election of war crimes prosecutors, the state's major prosecutor's office published an ad for the election on February 12th 2016. For all applicants registered, the procedure for determining the competence, competence and dignity laid down in Article 82 has been implemented. Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and in accordance with the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of the expertise and competence and dignity of candidates in the process of proposing the election of public prosecutors. At the session, held on 23 March 2016, the Council educated the Commission for the assembly and evaluation of written text and evaluation of the organisation's programme and the promotion of public prosecutors. Commission members were appointed Edward Jerinj, public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Jovan Prijic, deputy republican public prosecutor Mirjan Ilic, Judge of the Higher Court in Belgrade Mladen Nenadic, Prosecutor for Organized Crime and Ratko Popovic, Judge of the Higher Court in Belgrade. On the basis of the evaluation of the expertise and training of candidates and the quality assessment of the programme presented, the Commission drew up a ranking list of candidates, and at a session held on 27 September 2016, the Council set out a list of three candidates for the selection of war crimes prosecutors, which it provided to the government. Given the specificity of the prosecution's real and local jurisdiction for war crimes, the biographies of the proposed candidates, the experience so far in the handling of criminal cases which are within the jurisdiction of the war crimes prosecutor's office, as well as the criteria set out in Article 5. A law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in war crimes proceedings, the government proposed to the National Assembly a list of two candidates for the election of war crimes prosecutor Snezana Stanojkovic, deputy in the First Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and Milan Petrovic, deputy war crimes prosecutor. The choice of war crimes prosecutors is of great importance also to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Serbia under Chapter 23. One of the first steps, which is in line with the action plan for Chapter 23, expects the war crimes prosecutor's office to develop and adopt a prosecutorial strategy to investigate and prosecute war crimes. Under this strategy, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office should make the necessary efforts to improve the internal organisation and improve the efficiency of the prosecution's work. In addition to the action plan for Chapter 23, a number of future activities by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office were defined under the National Strategy for War Crimes Processing in the Republic of Serbia, adopted in February 2016. By the number and scope of the activities of this strategy, which needs to be implemented, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is the main bearer of its successful implementation. The prosecution also plays a significant role in the process of effective international, especially regional co-operation in investigating and processing war crimes, which is why the election of a new prosecutor should help intensify these mechanisms. With everything mentioned in mind, as well as the fact that due to the repeated election procedure already significantly delayed by the implementation of the two strategic documents mentioned, there are numerous challenges and great responsibility before the new prosecutor, whose understanding of both candidates has also been demonstrated through the proposed work programme presented by the State Council of Prosecutors. The data on all candidates is an integral part of the proposal for decisions on the election of public prosecutors, which you had the opportunity to meet. I must point out that the government has set out proposals based on the submission of the State Council of Prosecutors' List, and that in those cases where more candidates have been reported to the competition, and the Council has proposed only one candidate, the government has not used its legal authority and the possibility of returning the proposal to the State's Chief Prosecutor, precisely finding that the best candidates are proposed to these responsible functions. I am convinced that the proposed solutions, if you support them in the voting day, will contribute as much as possible to the quality of the work of the public prosecutors, the more efficient and quality fight against corruption, which is one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the priorities of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the more effective implementation of the new provisions of the Criminal Code, the law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal offence, as well as the Law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering corruption and organised crime and terrorism, adopted by the National Assembly during the autumn session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15546	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15547	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the High Council of the Judicial Council, the State Council of Prosecutors, the honourable MPs, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government are at their meetings, at which he discussed the proposals that are before us today, most of the votes have made decisions to support all the proposals that are before us today and that we will plead for the other day. The Committee also supported the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Regulating Judges, i.e. the Law on Judges, with an explanation that I would not repeat, which Mr. Martinovic here gave to us. I will also not repeat what Minister Nela Kuburovic said when it comes to the proposals to elect a public prosecutor's office in the main public prosecutors' offices and senior public prosecutors, as well as the choice of war crimes prosecutors, which the government has sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for adoption, and the Committee supported it. What I'm saying is that in this way, with the election of the president of the courts, who has long waited to be considered before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the election of public prosecutorial office holders in the prosecutions, where no choice has been made so far, were acting in those positions, will be rounded in almost 95% of cases by the choice of the bearers, both the role of the president of the courts and the public prosecutorial functions in the primary and senior prosecutors, and we think this will contribute to further strengthening of the judicial and public prosecutorial functions in the state of Serbia. I call on all MPs to support the proposals submitted by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Major Prosecutors, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia for adoption, while also calling on MPs to support the proposal of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, which is an official proposing on the basis of a proposal from a session of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia to elect Dr Kec, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad. In this way, the High Council of the judiciary will also be able to work easier, as it will have another member, so that it can have full composition for its work. Finally, if you allow me, Mr. Chairman, just two sentences so I do not return, since I am also a representative of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, to say that MPs, or the Single Serbia Parliament Club, will support all proposals that are on the agenda today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15548	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15549	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, as chairman of the Committee on Finance, Budget and Control of Public Expension, is mine to say that at today's session of the Committee, as part of today's session, there was a proposal for a law on the approval of the Loan Agreement – the first programme loan for development policies in public expenditures and public enterprises between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which the Government submitted on 17 February 2017 and a proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty "Improvement of Justice Authorities B" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which the Government submitted on 4 January 2017. This last financial contract that we are talking about is practically the continuation of a contract that has defined all investment projects since 2011, and will last a series of investment projects and their realisation until 2018 and relate to the facilities that constitute the judicial institutions, so that these tranches are withdrawn under this Agreement for the reconstruction of the Justice Palace and the Office of the Special Court. The part relating to the Loan Agreement – The first programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises is the loan agreement which is practically a loan defined in dollars, now in euro, and amounts to 182.6m euros, which will be spent on structural reforms and fiscal consolidation and a practical reduction of public debt payments at much more favourable interest rates than those raised in 2011, with an interest rate of 6 and 7%, and now 2.2%. What needs to be said is that these two financial agreements are very important for defining the reorganisation in general, both the costs and the realisation of the EPS programme and the Railways of Serbia. I therefore think that we have had a very constructive debate and with proposals from the Committee, which we have simply received enough information to accept in the voting day these two agreements, not only as a parliamentary majority, but also as many members of opposition parties, because the projects started in 2011 and were practically this second and third phase of the follow-up of the whole series of reconstructions of the facilities related to the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15550	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is very difficult, even harder than last time, to take part in the debate in the National Assembly, because it's exactly 43 points of the agenda, and I have 20 minutes. So I don't have half a minute on each point. Until I read the title of the agenda point – done. It speaks of your intentions to formalize the work of the National Assembly until the end, that it should actually be just some permeable hose for your legal marifetteluke. How long will that take? I think you've already reached a record of this 43 law, or 43 agenda points. I wouldn't be surprised if you kept going that way. That's why I chose to talk only about choosing a war crimes prosecutor. There are two candidates here, but you've predetermined who you're going to vote for, so it's all one thing that we Serbian radicals will vote for. One will be chosen for whom you have already agreed in advance as a parliamentary group, along with your coalition partners. Of course, most people do. But I question the very institution of the Special Court of War Crimes and therefore the prosecution of war crimes. It is in a radical way its own time created, artificially inserted into our legal system, two special courts were formed, and then it is said that they are not special, and we see in practice that they are really special, by way of work, by way of funding, by way of payment and by all means. It's high time we at least abolished the Special Court of War Crimes and transferred that jurisdiction to regular courts. It may be important to leave the Special Court of Organized Crime, which almost every civilised country has, and I wouldn't question it, but for war crimes there is no more reason to exist. "de etre" rezon, right, Minister? To prove to you that there is really no reason that there is no war crimes court or the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, I will give you some examples from practice. First, the press has repeatedly announced that former prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic met with the US ambassador, with other ambassadors, especially members of the European Union, as he went to the US Embassy – it is absolutely unacceptable for one public prosecutor. It is unacceptable even in some countries that they travel privately abroad, let alone go to various counsellings, seminars, to actually give them suggestions on how they will act against the interests of their people and state. Vukcevic is also involved in some financial affairs in the prosecution itself, and I demand that the justice minister urgently conduct the procedure, to determine which is the scale and exactly what it is. But if there were such cases, it was certain. Furthermore, it is also about the incompetence of certain prosecutors. For example, I have before me the item “Kravice”. You can see how incompetent the prosecutor is, and together they signed Vladimir Vukcevic and Miroljub Vitorovic. He says: “The prisoners were taken to the firing machine. ” He's a prosecutor in the area of prosecution, a war crime, but he doesn't know what a firing machine is. A firing machine is a machine where the military attacks. It used to be a line-up firing machine, with the first half of the 19th century. When the Ostragusha rifle was found, do you know what "Ostragusha" is – the one that is being loaded, the fire speed increased, and the liner machine could no longer survive. It's passed on to a scattered firing machine. This poor guy who's been writing the indictment and who's been putting that charge on trial, he thinks the firing machine is that lined up firing squad. He thinks it's a firing machine. And it's already enough that he can't work for the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes. He's not an expert. He doesn't know what this is about. He doesn't know what a firing squad is or what a firing machine is. The firing machine kills in the struggle. If it's a line machine, the first line shoots, while the second line fills the rifle, and then they change places, and so it happens sometimes in three, four groups, depends on the quality of the guns. And blow up a firing machine so that everyone can take care of their own cover, to avoid opposing fire. That's just to show you that you're not an expert in the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes. I thought they were the most uninstructed in The Hague and there I had a case of an officer by a Belgian army who didn't know the difference between a machine and an automatic rifle. I'm convinced that even these of yours wouldn't know here, and they're placed in such important places. Why do I mention this case? Because he's on his way to becoming the biggest scandal in our justice system, an even bigger scandal than he was meant for, or they're out there somewhere. These are the two most embarrassing processes before our Special Court of War Crimes. In Kravica, it happened that Serbian police brought 200 captured Muslim soldiers to the hangar of a farming cooperative. None of them were tied up, and while they were conducting them, a Muslim jumped out of the column, hijacked an automatic rifle to a Serb policeman, killed him, and tried to shoot the others. The commander of the water that was found on the spot caught his hand by the pipe, the whole raft was fired into the air, turned the pipe into air and burned his hand. They somehow forced those prisoners into the hangar and he hurried into the neighbouring village to bend. His skin is completely fried. Since there were few Serb soldiers and about 200 unbound prisoners, there was a stir, there were new attacks on Serb police officers. That's when some people started shooting. Some started, others continued. You know when a case like that happens in a war that human psychosis is completely different, that people don't react completely rationally, and they couldn't react differently because 200 unarmed people when they go after ten armed people, when there's two or three feet apart, then you're not worth a weapon. First you kill, second you kill, third you take your gun and kill you. That's what happened in Kravica. I studied Kravic on the basis of UN tribunal and Special Court documentation in Sarajevo. I have already published in a book the comments of several Special Court rulings in Sarajevo, and soon my book "There were no genocides in Srebrenica" comes out where I will analyse the complete problem of Srebrenica. That's why I consider myself competent for this criticism that I present to you in the Special Prosecutor's Office. I hope the court council resists these machinations, that they will not succumb to them. So there was a spontaneous shooting, there was no organized killing. There is no "dolus", let alone "dolus specialis". There was no intention of killing themselves. There was a intention to close until they moved somewhere else. After all, they had a prisoner camp in Jahorina, they could have moved them there. It's the police, not the military. The police seemed pretty independent from the military. There was no hierarchical subordination. We see here in the indictment that there were several phases of killing, so they were killed, then carried away, and brought in another, and killed, and so in four, five, or six rounds. Says the prosecutor in the opening statement, and that's what the indictment says, that 1,313 people were killed. The judge asks him nicely – how much of it can it be attributed to these indictees? The D.A. doesn't know, because he says it was this group of cops who brought the prisoners, but they were coming and some of the others were bringing them in. He says Shehovci, or whatever he said, it's about a few groups. He wants to condemn an imaginary number of 1,313 of this group of poor people who happened to be here, found themselves in a very difficult situation of life and reacting. Maybe it could have been different. They may have been better able to establish that order on the spot, but let's ask ourselves, how would each of us react when he's caught by fear on the spot when he's afraid for his own life? Then it's hard to think about the life of a prisoner of war. I will not justify anyone who has killed willingly with the intention of killing, with the intention of getting revenge, etc., but this is becoming a spontaneous situation where no court would react in this way. Well, look at how much that warehouse is, that farmer's hangar in Kravica. There can't fit more than 200 people, and they say 1,313. Then who put it off? It's impossible to organize it like that. It's impossible to bring prisoners to a place where some prisoners have already been shot, and then they find six or seven places where bodies were allegedly found. Who knows where your corpses came from? Those bodies are hard to compare with these lists. After all, it is true that there was a shift in these collective tombs when some were afraid of their own responsibilities, because the shooting was. About 1,000 to 1,200 prisoners have been shot, no one can deny it. It's a crime, but it's just a crime of killing prisoners of war. Here these people represent as civilians and this as a crime against civilians. How? On what grounds? People, the entire 28th Muslim division broke out of Srebrenica to Tuzla, came across Serbian ambushes, beat up Serbian artillery all the time, lost a lot, but when it came to the position of the Zvornik Brigade towards Tuzla, the commander of the Zvornik Brigade had to let them pass, because if he hadn't let them go, they would have come back and taken Zvornik. There were so many of them, and they were so strong. But here someone's goal is to prove it's a crime against civilians. I wouldn't be surprised if someone insisted that this is both genocide and anything else. This happened on July 13th, and these shootings that also took place, happened on July 14th and 15th, and they have no relationship with each other. How did it get out about the Cow? Police General Borovcanin led a journalist, Zoran Petrovic Pirocanca, with a camera to perpetuate his commanding role. The blueberry was in The Hague with me. I know the story firsthand. He wanted the camera to take pictures of these prisoners. When they came in with the camera, the prisoners were already dead, and this pyromaniac filmed it and then sold it to an American or someone else. Nice, greasy profit. But it came after he had to testify in The Hague. Then it was a hook, help. He tried to avoid it more than once, so they threatened the court's misrepresentation process, etc. He showed up at The Hague, but in secret testimony as a secret witness. Of course, he died afterwards. With such a burdened security, no wonder he died. So here's a case of disgrace for the Serbian judiciary. We Serbian radicals will now follow this process closely. I'm going to court sessions myself. I'm going to apply to the Department of Justice, I'm going to apply to the Special Court, I want a pass for every court session as a legal expert in international reputation, and I have proof of that. Isn't that right, Minister? The second scandal is a trial scandal for the Ovcara group. The crime on Ovcara was organised, but it was not organised by territorial defence, nor by the government of the Serbian Autonomous Area of Eastern Slavonia, West Srem and Baranja, but by the military security service headed by Aleksanda Vasiljevic. I have his statement here before the Belgrade Special Court. He confirms that on November 21st, he was in command of the guard brigade in Negoslovci. What was he doing there? We have statements from Vesna Bosnian. Vukovar fell on November 18th, and it was only 20 a.m. that our officers entered the Vukovar hospital. The night before, a plan to liquidate exactly 200 prisoners was made in the guard brigade's command. This was attended by General Aleksandar Vasiljevic. Three colonels he personally raised from retirement, without any papers, Slavko Tomic, Bogoljub Kijanovic and Bogdan Vujic. Bogdan Vujic is still alive, hurry up. And Vasiljevic is still alive, 79 years old, to stay away. It is a sin for the morale and history of the Serbian people to go unpunished. Instead of taking prisoners from the hospital to be taken like everyone else to Sremska Mitrovica to a prison camp, they were first taken to the barracks, driven by Major Sljivancan himself and he personally came to the Ovcara and left them there. I can't tell if he knew he was going to be shot or not, but he brought them there. That's where the other security officers took them. That's where the lists are leveled. Vasiljevic ordered it after agreeing with the Croats to shoot exactly 200. 207 has been brought in. Seven were released from the Shepherd. I have their statements on my Hague list. I'm going to publish everything now in the books, everything, all the Hague files. There's no more lies, no more plantings. There's nothing more to be done. The accident is huge for us that Goran Hadzic passed away. He and his lawyer made it even more detailed to expose the case on the Ovcara than I did. Two main false witnesses, two protected witnesses who testified before the Belgrade Special Court, are Spasoje Petkovic called Stuka. He was a regular soldier serving military time in the Guard Brigade, not a volunteer or a territorial man. There was a Božo Latinović, also called Boro Krajisnik. The two of them then boasted about killing each other. But the first time they were arrested they agreed to falsely testify against others, they went unpunished. I wouldn't be surprised if Spasoje Petkovic called Stuka if he still got paid by the Serbian police and had been put away somewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15552	It's been 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15553	Here I would have continued to refuse from that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15554	You can't now, because only authorised representatives or heads of Parliament can now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15555	Well, I'm an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15556	You've spent 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15557	Okay, then I'll keep going when we have the 27. I'll remember where I left off.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15558	When it's on the list, fine. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15559	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, citizens of Serbia, I would like to talk about the election of public prosecutors and the election of candidates as deputy public prosecutor. We have a very responsible job here today. We're choosing 17 deputy public prosecutors for the first time. These are young people who first begin to work on this very responsible government duty. We've got about thirty or so, a little over thirty, if I can count the candidates we're picking out as public prosecutors. Let me say first how we should approach today's work. This is a very responsible job because to a large extent the way people are chosen in these very important and responsible places determines their behavior. So here in the National Assembly, we are still in the current system, or the way public prosecutors are elected, representing some kind of control body, so we are not going into meritung things, not determining who is worthy, who is not worthy of being a public prosecutor, but we are trying to determine whether the whole procedure for selecting people who come to the seats of the deputy public prosecutors and the public prosecutors themselves has been implemented as legally prescribed. So that's our role as MP in the National Assembly. We here defend the public interest that these important state officials are elected by law. If they are not elected by law but by law, it can have a strong impact on their behavior later, because the one who chooses to pass the law can be very easily accepted by law. As for the election of public prosecutors, who are more than 30 here, we've got some biographies, although these biographies actually cover up more than the details and information we need here. So that we can properly decide if the people who are proposed are in those places, i.e. Whether the State's Major Prosecutors proposed by the candidates and the ministry that proposed them to us did a good job would be good if we knew a little more detailed biography than those delivered to us by the Ministry and the State Council of Prosecutors. Some data has been delivered to us, and I'm going to say something about them, which can be very interesting and ask a representative of the State Council of Prosecutors and a minister who represents the Ministry here if they can tell us a little bit more about it. For example, one candidate for a public prosecutor was born in 1953, another 1954, which means that they now have 63 and 64 years of life. They'll retire soon. Was it justifiable from what point of view it was justified to choose people who had two more, or one year to retire? Unless fellow Martinovic may not propose a law under which the mandate of public prosecutors will extend to several years, when they are ready for retirement. We also heard on the board yesterday that one who was born in 1956 had actually already been admitted to a disability pension a few days ago, and then his candidacy retreated. Is it possible that it has come to this point and that only the day before the election has realized that someone who is on disability pension can be chosen as a public prosecutor? One candidate is said to have worked on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ethics Council of the Association of Public Prosecutors and on the drafting of the Ethics Code of Prosecutors, and it is also not said in the biography that his name was mentioned in the press several years ago in a case of monetary extortion. Can the promoter tell us anything about it? One, let's say, in 2010, was elected assistant in the public prosecutor's office, since 2015 working as the secretary of the senior prosecutor's office, has never been a deputy, at least from this biography it doesn't follow, and we're choosing it as a public prosecutor. Can someone who's never been to the deputy's place right now come to the D.A.'s office? One of the deputies was elected in 2016, and after a year we're already choosing him as a public prosecutor. I'd like to get to the public with the fact that every one of these candidates, all these people who are now elected public prosecutors, have in the State's council a little wider biography called a personal sheet and which is protected by law, whose information is protected by law, i.e. Whose information neither we nor as MPs can have. This personal list contains some very interesting details that would help us see if the people who are candidates for this function are really qualified, professional and worthy of performing it. For example, in this personal list, there are, in addition to the various details of career movements, also the assessment of the fulfillment of the norm, in the past, of course, whether the candidate had any disciplinary measures that had been made in the past, whether his function had ceased at some point, on published professional and scientific papers, on the evaluation of his work, on participation in professional training programmes, etc. These are all the horrors that are unusually important for the public to hear, as the public prosecutor, as he says his name, is a public function. You know, when you want to perform some kind of public function, one part of your life can't be that anymore. So people who want to perform public functions, such as MPs, state presidents, government presidents, ministers, judges, public prosecutors, must give up one piece of public life. If they don't want to do that, then they shouldn't apply to be candidates for those functions. Hiding these functions from the public is not appropriate. So I don't understand exactly what legal reasoning is that the contained personal list is hidden from the public. Which is why the public can't know if, say, one of the candidates for a public prosecutor has been punished disciplinaryly in his past. Which is why he can't know what kind of evaluation was in the past by the prosecution's superiors, which is why all this information is classified, i.e. Why do you only have access to them and we don't? Also, I'm a public official just like you. I can't see that data, you can. Why? Now I want to say something about selecting a deputy public prosecutor. So these are younger people who are first elected to this important place. The function of the deputy attorney general may sometimes be much more important, or it may have a greater impact on the very course of the investigation led by the prosecutor himself. For the audience, who is a little less involved with this topic, therefore, each prosecution has one prosecutor and a lot of, many, many deputies who are in fact doing the tasks of the investigation, and they can significantly influence the very course of the investigation and what will eventually the public prosecutor decide to do or not to do. They've got very significant functions, although they're called substitutes, they can really be very, very significant. Now, how do these deputies get elected? They're elected by legally determining that people who want to be deputies have to have a completed judicial academy and get a grade from one to five. If they don't have that grade, they can pass an exam organised by the State's Major Prosecutors and get some grade from one to five. It's a legally regulated choice of deputy public prosecutors. Therefore, the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office is governed by Article 77a and Article 82a. But what happened a few months ago. The state's major prosecutors have passed one rule on selecting deputies where additional criteria are established for selecting deputy prosecutors, and it is said, in addition to these assessments that one can get in the exam or at the Judicial Academy, another oral conversation with candidates is being held, and then in that oral conversation, a candidate or candidate can receive scores from one to three. This is totally against the law, because this is not contained in the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, nor is it contained in the Action Plan adopted last year by the Serbian Government for the implementation of the measure for Chapter 23, to remind you of a chapter dealing with the judiciary, where, also in point 1313, it is not ambiguous that the assessment from the Judiciary Academy or the examination organised by the State's Major Prosecutors, which determines the ranking list of candidates when they propose to elect the National Assembly. So you've brought a rulebook where you've introduced new criteria and so completely disrupted the whole selection process. You probably know that the association of former law school students challenged this regulation before the Constitutional Court, that the proceedings are currently under way, if the Constitutional Court makes a decision that the regulation is not in accordance with the law, what will happen to the choice of all these people we're talking about today? These 17 people we're talking about today. I don't think that's a very wise move, you should have waited for the Constitutional Court to come forward, so you could say that and change the law and see if you could choose them that way. So, you've set up a review from the Judicial Academy or an evaluation from the exams as a preliminary procedure in that rule, and then add new additional points based on the talks you're having with the candidates. That's not all, what's actually going on in that oral conversation, is there any record of it? Can we know how you've determined whether someone should get a grade one, two or three on that interview, because let's say on the test, on the exam that takes, we can see it very easily and the assessment from the Judicial Academy can show you very easily. I don't know if this oral conversation can show you. And, not only that, the law obliges you to make a rank list. Here, the minister also mentioned the ranking list earlier, can we see that ranking list? We'd like to see what grades came from people who have passed, and how they've been ranked by people who haven't passed. Why isn't there a rank list? Is there any way we can see it? You know, we decide that. And we're functionally interested in seeing such details. Like the commission made a decision in cases where the candidates had and there were more candidates who had the same maximum grades, and then you had to decide, say, one, two, or several of them. For example, I know the prosecution data in Belgrade were 25 candidates who had exactly the same grades, a maximum score of eight, so five with exams and three with talks, and then the Commission of the State's Major Prosecutors decided on six of those 25. How? So there were 25 of them with the same assessment, you decided on six, by what criteria, you had to have some additional criteria to determine that. What are these criteria? We need to know that so we can see if you've done a good job. We're the ones controlling you here. You know, there seems to be some sort of tendency in the public prosecutor's office to hide the biography, to hide the data about how it works. So, in addition to the fact that there's a lot of information about public prosecutors that you didn't deliver to us, besides the fact that we don't know how the commission was getting grades from those oral talks. There have also been cases, or, excuse me, you have also failed to provide an original, average rating of all the candidates from the studies you have proposed for the deputy public prosecutor. Well, then, you've only been to the Commissioner's response to information of public importance, and you've provided that information. Not to mention the case that a few months ago, the Commissioner asked the D.A.'s office for information on the prosecutor in charge of the Savamal case that the D.A. didn't want to deliver, and then the Commissioner punished the prosecution, and then the D.A.'s office, imagine, filed a lawsuit against the Commissioner for information of public importance for asking for that information. Can we possibly know anything about people sitting in the D.A.'s office and what their résumés are like? Or if anyone dares to ask such a question, they'll get a lawsuit from the D.A.'s office. This has nothing to do with you, I'm just saying this as some kind of trend that exists in the public prosecutor's office. To conclude what I was saying. At first, I said that the way such important officials choose can have a significant impact on their work in the future. People who choose irregularly, I don't know why you put them in this situation. I believe that the largest number of these people deserve to be there, but you leave one worm doubting whether they're all like that. So people who choose in these places in this way can very easily fall under political influence later. People who choose like this stay in debt to someone, and those who are in charge then those debts in the future have to pay back. It's not good for the justice system. It is not good for the level of corruption in this country and I would ask you that if you can reconsider or at least give some answers, perhaps you are absolutely right, at least give some answers about why so many regulations have been made in this proposing process? Which is why we can't have access to all the information that's relevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15560	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15561	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm advertising Article 108. – that the order at the session is the old president of the National Assembly, chairing, i.e. at this point, you. You have also violated Article 103 because you have not just given me a breach of the Rules of Procedure, although someone who advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure has priority over all other speakers. So, I know about this animosity of yours towards the MPs of the Democratic Party, but I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. And, if you can just answer me, I don't mean the previous fellow who spoke, but the one before him, can I now talk about this point of the agenda about what kind of prison sentences are going to be given to criminals who are harassing the Democratic Party committees today and threatening to vote for your president of the municipality... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15562	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Why have you taken my word now? ) Because it's not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic: No previous speaker spoke about the topic... Mr. Milojić, there's nothing left for me but to... (Radoslav Milojic: The previous speaker is... )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15564	Is that it? Rules of Procedure? What you've presented has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. The MPs speak at the same time. ) (Radoslav Milojic: President, you were not here. There I am all the time, believe it or not. Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure, the chairman didn't hurt. (Radoslav Milojic: Yes, he didn't give me his word.) Article 103.) You'll get your word when you get your turn, and you've got as much as I can see while I've been consulting with my colleague, Aleksandr Martinovic. Take it easy, I don't know what's going on here. Minister, you can't get word to the Rules of Procedure, just help. Minister, you want to answer the question? I have to delete the list so you can sign in. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The minister has the right to respond to Dusan Pavlovic's discussion. (Marco Djurisic: When you do not respect the order. ) Let the minister respond to Dusan Pavlovic, don't every time yell at the chairman when he tries to run the session, it's tasteless, you're doing terror here. (Radoslav Milojic): Come down, and debate with the messengers. ) Would you be kind enough to keep your private observations on holding the session for restaurants and cafes at your leisure. I'd like to give my word to the Minister. Please, feel free to sign in and answer Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15565	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the previous discussion stated that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the State's Chief Prosecutors broke the law in the process of proposing a public prosecutor, I am not sure that I have heard the arguments and the provisions of the law have been violated. I must point out that the MP noted that we have candidates who are 63 years of 64 who have been proposed and I don't know why it would be an obstacle for someone to perform a public prosecutor's office, given that up to 65 years of age he may be in the position of a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor. The Public Prosecutor's Law explicitly stipulates that, when candidates and candidates for public prosecutorial office are elected and proposed, discrimination is prohibited on any basis, thus also in relation to years of life. What's also important, I need to draw attention to the procedure being conducted by the State's major prosecutors in which the candidate ranks and scores based on the expertise and competence and dignity of the programme that public prosecutors carry out and on the basis of that point, the ranking is done. The very list and ranking of candidates are on the State's Grand Prosecutors' site and the interim ranking list and the final ranking list, based on which the state's senior prosecutors are proposing candidates. What is important in the process of proposing these public prosecutors, that the State Council exclusively proposed candidates with the highest number of points and some of these candidates who are proposed have a maximum number of points that can be obtained on the basis of the evaluation, that is the number of points 70. Which means that all that data was publicly available and you could have gotten to know them if you were interested. As far as the ranking itself is concerned, I think that the Government did not have to propose to you and leave you with such information, since this is the procedure that has previously been carried out by the State Major Prosecutors and what I said at the very beginning, this is the first time that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not made the choice of candidates, but has delivered to the National Assembly and absolutely all the candidates that the State Major Prosecutors have proposed just in order not to talk about any political influence on the choice of public prosecutors and MPs, certainly not to be able to control the legality of the proceedings, I think that and how can you control the candidates that we have proposed, given that the expertise and the ability, I certainly believe that the State Major Prosecutors have assessed it in the best possible way, and when it comes to dignity, it is understood that if any of the MPs here has some information, information that can be relevant for the day of voting, certainly have the fact. If you still insist that there have been violations of the law, I would like you to tell us which provisions have been violated and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not respected the procedure when it comes to proposing public prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15566	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15567	Thank you, Chairman. It's very complicated to discuss this many topics in 20 minutes, as far as we're concerned, since it's completely unrelated. I'll try to tell you as much about everything on the agenda. First it's the Judges' Law. What's interesting is that this law was not proposed by the government, but by a national MP, and the government agreed on a letter that we received today from the Prime Minister with this bill, and with respect to what it says in the explanation, and then I read little reasons for the adoption of this law, and couldn't find any reason to change the choice of the President of the Courts in more than one term and cut the deadline from five to four years. Since the same majority in November 2013 amended the Law on Judges, in which it is concerned that the term of office of the President of the Court is four years and that it can be re-elected. I can only understand that my colleague Martinovic, who was not in parliament at the time, was then, as this book "asso" said to Tom and Vukic... Well, one book. It was here today in the congregation. And he wasn't there when most who belong now changed the Law on Judges. I think it should be the justice minister, although she was not at the post back then, but the continuity of the government in Serbia, which exists for five years, to explain to us what was wrong with these changes, which the same majority adopted four years ago and now returns to the old ones, because I saw nothing from this explanation, no argument that it now changes as it was in 2013. But it's the manner of this government -- five years, things change, they spin around. One of the first changes was just that. You said once every five years and there's no extension regarding pensions, retirements, anything like that. And then in these five years, everything was changing, so someone could stay in office after they got the legal condition to retire on one function, on another function. Here we go again. So he can remain in office as president of the court until the end of his term, he can be re-elected. Did you make a mistake? Say you're wrong and you're wrong, and you're wrong about everything you do, because you don't know what you're doing. The change of this law did not come from the Government, which would have to organise a public debate, so that there was talk of the effects of the change in 2013 and what was done wrong then and why this was done now, and it was done because this law has its name and last name. It is precisely for certain people, certain people who are loyal to the authorities, people who are among those 600 judges of the SNS who are now supposed to stay in office and do some work for the SNS. I call on the legislator to tell us by the end of the debate what people are, their names and last names. These are laws that are written for certain people, laws that violate the principle of generality in lawmaking. That's why the situation in Serbia's judiciary is getting worse and worse every year. And I'm going to stop there because I want to say something about agreements, international ones, which Serbia is in charge of an additional 208m euros. On this by the promoter, which is here, Minister Kuburovic, has not said a single word. She's authorized in front of the government to talk about these two laws as well. And as she read, regarding the election of prosecutors, someone from the finance ministry could have provided her with something to read about these loans and see why the state of Serbia is in charge of the new 208m euros. What are the effects of the 182m-euro loan that needs the first programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises? How is this going to improve the work of public enterprises by 182m euros, how much does the National Assembly now have to approve of increasing Serbia's debt? To give us answers on the state of the public enterprises, that on March 4th, according to the law that this Assembly passed, the deadline for the election of all directors in public enterprises ended. A year as the law was passed in March 2016, the government had a year to end the election of directors. Is it over? What time did it end? Not at all. Here, I'll say it, not at all. The government has barely been able to record ads for the selection of directors in these public enterprises. What was she doing in that year? She continued with the practice of setting up party staff, party staff at the director's post of public enterprises. The freshest example – Corridori, our former colleague Babic, V.D. Director, Director of Post Office, V.D. Director, MP, colleague of ours, director of Serbiagas, MP, director. Well, is that in accordance with the law we passed here a year and a few days ago? Why are we passing these laws if we don't respect them? What do we expect, what will happen to these 182m euros that should go to public development policies? I would like the minister to explain to me what the policies are, what they will do in public enterprises, whether to reduce the losses that will be over 300m euros this year. Public enterprises in Serbia are the largest generator of deficits. It does, because we're talking about a 182m-euro loan for public enterprises. And what's the state of public enterprises? Do we need to go in order from the EPS, from Serbia, from the Post Office, from the Power Network? What are the losses, and what's going on there? How much lower electricity production was in the EPS in March this year compared to last March, in February this year compared to February last year? What about reading electrical numbers? Why, if everything was okay, why has the contract been annulled and a new competition is now being held? These are all issues that this parliament needs to discuss, and the government has not authorised us to send someone to say a single word about it, but is expected to vote here and to approve that Serbia is in charge of 182m euros. Of course, the SDS parliamentary group will not support these agreements without debate, without knowing what that money will be spent on, who is responsible for the situation in which Serbia's public enterprises are now located. Let's move on. What does this congregation have to do with an emergency procedure? We have two points later, four and five, I guess, on the agenda, where we need to determine the termination of the function of certain people, by emergency procedure. And then, from December 27th, we wait for this emergency procedure until May 11th, four and a half months, urgently. It's really urgent. Now, I'm glad to say, I'm glad the Minister has pointed out several times that the government has not interfered with the proposals coming from the State's Attorney General's Office for Prosecutors that we are discussing today. Now I ask you, is it true that the State's Chief Prosecutor has sent three names to the government for war crimes prosecutors? And how many did the government refer to the congregation’s names? Two. It means she was changing. So you told the truth because you said it didn't change anything. I've found you a change. I'm not saying whether the government has or has no right. I'm talking about the Minister's insistence several times – we haven't changed anything. You've changed. You've changed, you've lied. It's the manner of the entire government. I'm not surprised you're doing it, too. What's the problem with this election? The government sent us two names. And for those who are there a little longer than this one summons, those names are nothing new. I will remind you, since most were there in December 2015, that these two names were the same, both Snezana Stanojkovic and Milan Petrovic, along with three other names, were candidates for the war crimes prosecutor and we discussed here in parliament in December 2015, before the term of office of the prosecutor who was then in the post and no candidate received a majority. Mrs. Snezana Stanojkovic received 75 votes from MPs and Mr. Milan Petrovic received five. The most votes were received by Mr. Dejan Terzic, who has not now passed the government. So it was, that third name on the proposal sent by the State's Major Prosecutors, but it wasn't in front of us. What do we expect now, which candidate will get most of it here, if a year and a half ago none of them got a majority? Why are we playing with this institution? The same names are sent after a year and a half. What's changed? The government only sent us the biographies, but she didn't send us, say, work plans. The state's chief prosecutor, when establishing the candidate list, since there were five candidates, spoke with them, gave an assessment of the expertise. There they all got a maximum number of points, but these estimates differed in the presentation of the programme. And Mrs. Snezana Stanojkovic, as far as I could find, won 19.6 points, Mr. Milan Petrovic 13.6 and Mr. Dejan Terzic 11.6. That's how she ranked them and sent them to the government. But we didn't see those programs. Based on your biography, you expect us to define ourselves for people who have already been here and haven't received support, so that's not serious, that's irresponsible. You're destroying the D.A.'s war crimes institution this way. I'm sure there are a lot of cases that the prosecution has to deal with in order to clear all of those Serbian citizens who, in war crimes, are the largest, have not participated. Anyone who committed war crimes in Serbia and on behalf of the Serb people should be convicted. Whoever didn't, of course, need to be released. We're never going to move forward unless we take off that scar that's standing on each one of us. In the end, I want to say something about the choice of judges who are elected for the first time by the President of the Court. We got here candidates to elect a president of seven courts, which was sent on October 31st 2016. My first question - which mandate do we choose? Do we choose them for five years or choose them for four years, if this change is now adopted? The 30th of October was five years one time. How many are we choosing now? We haven't heard anything about them. No one from the High Council of Justice has spoken to us. The next issue is about the election of three judges who are first elected to office. It explains that the competition for these three places was launched on 14 April 2016, meaning more than a year ago. My question is, since there's been a lot going on in the field of election for the first time in office, did these three candidates take the test? The test was an obligation that had to be adopted by the High Judicial Council by 29 March 2016. The High Council of the Judiciary did not do so on time, so the ad for judges who had been annulled since September of last year, because no regulation had been passed and no testing was carried out, and that is an obligation under the law. Now, preparing here, I saw that the regulation was passed in February of this year, that it contained 782 questions, and there was a story that would be 200. Since I don't see here in reason when this conversation with these candidates has been made, are these people, these candidates have now passed that legal part and is this proposal in accordance with the law or not? All these things don't give us the right to vote for any proposal on the agenda in this united debate. Everything we've heard in the previous debate on the state of affairs, the choice of prosecutors, but above all, the state of the prosecution in which they meet is now increasingly and more freely spoken by the prosecutors themselves, about the political and other pressures they are under. The fact is the D.A.'s office also got a trustee for independence who himself says there are pressures. As an example of the first and biggest speaking of the case in Savala, and we can add an example of what's going on in Backo Palanca, the persecution of a police officer who is fighting a drug dealer, where the Public Prosecutor of Backa Palanca does not find the elements of the crime, and after pressure he asks for an exception and the case is transferred to Novi Sad to a similar prosecutor. Everything that passes through the government of the Republic of Serbia, as it is, which works the way it works, which is lying, I have proved to be lying, because the minister has said several times we haven't changed, and then admits that she has changed. All these lies, fraud and deception, the situation in Serbia, the judiciary, the economy, health care, education, require us to be against the government and any proposal. We're not gonna support these suggestions. I believe there are honest people here, and I don't want to throw anyone else away, but it's a non-transparent procedure, in the atmosphere of fear, in the atmosphere of pressure, in the atmosphere of auto-censorship and censorship. Until these things are answered, as a society, we will not move forward, no Chapters 23 and 24, action plans that are not being fulfilled, because they cannot be met because parliament is not working. The fifth working day of this year, two passed laws, so I believe that for Chapter 23 there are more than 20 laws that we had to adopt under the action plan, and where is the Constitution? Reform of the Constitution by the end of this year according to the action plan. We will never finish this job while this government is in office. That's why it's good to leave as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15568	Parliament works every day, pal. You can come to work every day from half eight to half four. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15569	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my predecessors have made remarks that we have received a meeting with 43, and now the 44th point has come up, it is very difficult to talk about all the points, so I will then concentrate on the first and second points of the agenda, namely the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges and I will first talk about it. We see here that the term of office of the President of the Court is shortened from five to four years and that re-election is possible and that the working century is extended to a judge who, in addition to years of age, can function until the end of the judicial term. Here, too, it is explained that this is all done to achieve greater efficiency. I haven't been able to figure out what that efficiency is about. In fact, we have a situation that we will extend the working century to judges sitting on the pyramids of the case today and in the manner in which the prosecutors are chosen, many judges elected, we can, along with my fence that there are certainly honest people, conclude that it is the obedient people who are going to finish the affairs for power, or for the SNS. As far as efficiency itself is concerned, we have seen that efficiency exists in certain cases. Efficientness, for example, was shown extraordinaryly when Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic sued the NIN with a private suit, and then the court ruled very quickly, and then the next instance knocked the verdict down. That's where we saw the efficiency. However, the efficiency, or better said ineffectiveness of the court, could be seen in the Savamale case, where the investigation is still under way, where we don't even know who's being blamed, although Mr. Vukic, Prime Minister and President, a year ago, said it was complete idiots from the top of the city government. Apparently, these complete idiots at the top of the city government recognized themselves, agreed that they were complete idiots and didn't get angry, did not sue Mr. Prime Minister for insults, so neither we today nor they could see what the efficiency of today's courts was. We can change the law as much as we want, however, it remains a bitter taste of research done through an anonymous survey of how much the judges in Serbia suffer pressure. According to that anonymous poll, 44% of judges have pleaded to suffer pressure. Whether it is the pressure that suffers from the higher instance of the judicial authority or the pressures from the executive authority, it is not defined until the end, but was found to be the most frequent pressures, meaning, from the higher instance of the judicial authority and from the ranks of the executive authority. We were also witnesses, as far as the Constitutional Court of Serbia is concerned, and this Constitutional Court of Serbia has also suffered very much pressure from the very President of the Republic, who first made it difficult to declare himself in connection with the Brussels Agreement, and more about many other things, because it is reportedly necessary to wait until the constitutional law is passed. So that's one flagrant interference of the executive authority in the work of the judicial authorities, so the former judge of the Constitutional Court, Professor. Ivosevic, the Constitutional Court called the Constitutional Court, or later the Court of Justice. Also, there isn't, when it comes to efficiency, not a word about what happens to antiquities. In May 2017, the magazine "New Economy" discusses the statutes of limitations and is particularly associated with the entry into the SNS, such as the case of the Brac Kertes, by investing in a coalition or by providing certain advantages and financing of the SNS. There's not a word here, in this reform, about budget reform, we don't ask for any larger budget, and we know that if the judicial authorities don't have their own budget, that they don't have their autonomy, and if they wait for a spoon or a drop to give them money that they won't be able to be independent enough. All this tells us is that the pressure on the judiciary is great, that the way judges and prosecutors are chosen is, I repeat, I'm sure there are honest people, but one big part is certainly influenced by the current government. I would also quote Steven Spielberg, who, describing one of the bananas to the Republic, and this may also refer to our Domanic 'Stradija', said – if you do not rule the courts, you do not rule at all. It seems to me that you, as today's government, have taken that maximum, and you will indeed rule the courts to rule. The second point I'd like to say is the loan agreement. It is the first programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises, between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. First, what was particularly interesting to me was the payment deadline. In fact, it usually happens here so that each loan is paid off for about five to seven years, but here it turns out that it's a fantastic repayment deadline by 15 November 2036. We'd say, at first glance, beautifully enough, we don't have to pay back the money until 2036, but all the while that clock is ticking, we have to, as a state, pay interest, and this loan should, otherwise, be withdrawn by March 2018. We know that the situation, by the way, is very unstable in the world and that the world's economic opportunities are very unstable, so that the components that determine the interest rate can vary greatly, especially from the aspect of such a long period of time. I found here in Section 2, under the Programme, where Paragraph A stands, in general provisions says – the borrower can withdraw loan funds according to the provisions of this Section and additional instructions that the bank can establish in the notification of the borrower. What are these additional instructions? What does that really mean? It continues in paragraph V, conditions for withdrawal of the tranche, where it says – withdrawing funds from a single tranche of loans will not be done unless the bank is satisfied, under A) realising the programme by the borrower and under B) adequateness of the macroeconomic policy framework of the borrower. Here the question of our economic independence or addiction is raised, because this loan that the state takes can simply be abolished if the lender is not satisfied with how things are happening here, in other words, is not satisfied with how this state listens or does not listen. Of course, in addition to these things, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are taking a loan of 182 million and 600,000 euros, so that we can resuscitate, or help the work of public enterprises. Here is the most mentioned company "Electroprivreda Srbija". Since I'm not from that branch, I've consulted on what the Fiscal Council says, and the Fiscal Council, ladies and gentlemen, is someone we respect both here and who you respect, besides you, you're this Fiscal Council and you've set it up. Pavle Petrovic, president of the Fiscal Council, says the EPS has failed to systematise jobs, that investments in the EPS are less than depreciation and that EPS is one time bomb where the countdown of the explosion is in progress, headed by Director-General Milorad Greece. Here, an article written by Mr. Culibrk at NIN, referring to the Fiscal Council's findings, said the flood damage in 2014 to EPS was 100m euros, and this year, the EPS spent $50m in the first three months, because it failed to produce electricity. Why didn't he get that power to produce? They failed to produce electricity because there are no investments, depreciations are bigger, there is no telling when they will work "Kostolac". The Agency for Business Registers ranks, for 2016, the EPS second-ranking company with total losses of 103.5 billion dinars, right behind "Srbigas". Also, a member of the Fiscal Council, Mr Vladimir Vučković compares the work of the EPS with the work of the CEZ, i.e. the Czech electricity industry and says – the CES has made a new systematization. Now, the CES employs 26,000 employees and the CEC earns 10 billion euros annually, while the EPS has 30,000 workers and earns 2 billion euros and we see what is the huge difference. This lack of investment in depreciation, which I have already mentioned, is between 15 billion and 20 billion dinars, which means that this company does not even maintain these production capacities, let alone increase them, and the financial debt of the EPS has doubled by the end of 2015 and is 1.1 billion euros. Of course, there are no clear management mechanisms in the EPS besides all this. It is not clear what will happen to EPS workers from KIM territory. I wouldn't be sorry if we were in charge of raising EPS on our feet, but I see that public enterprises are party prey. We also see this by management, or management teams sitting in public enterprises. We see that here, it is already said here, and I will repeat, we had Mr Babic, who was put on the forehead of the Corridor, who has absolutely no qualifications to be in that place. We have a lady who's V.D. The director of "Post" also without qualifications to be in the post. We also have various directors in the EPS who owned the roasters. So we have the ignorance that reigns in Serbia here, and we are in debt and in debt to our children and our grandchildren with an additional 182m euros. It's not an economy. It's a fire economy. It's a ceasefire, and now there are only two things -- either it's in someone's interest that the EPS will completely tear it apart and then, as a lifeguard, offer to a foreign investor, or we'll continue to be in debt forever and continue to place people who don't deserve to run businesses and that will ruin both Serbia and all the people in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15570	Thank you. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15571	Thank you very much. The right to replica - to mention the party directly and in the context, I have to admit, very strangely, the issue of funding and SNS, was it so, very strange, not because of what comes and from who it comes from, so some things we already know very well from some here and can be expected, whatever the subject is. But it's very strange that the choice has fallen to this particular topic, because you know, besides, of course, that, with SNS finances, there's absolutely nothing controversial about it, whenever someone's trying to find out anything, it's got all the data, there's another question -- what about the finance issue of those of which this topic is being run? What do we do with that? For example, with the parliamentary group formed by the party, you've heard probably of that very successful DOS candidate, Jeremic. For example, what about those who invested millions of dollars in the campaign before it officially started? Is it perhaps a question for some official authorities and some official analyses that have spent a great deal of millions during the campaign, which, of course, not only is the origin unknown, but there will be no justification. Today, the media speculates that those who gave loans are also generously interested – when they will see their money. What about those who talk about borrowing today don't put a finger on their forehead for a second and ask themselves – who's only a few years ago, so it wasn't that we don't know when so we don't remember, so much in debt to this country and under such conditions that it flew into that whirlwind that exceeded the legal frameworks, which got everyone into deep trouble and never wanted to solve it, which was solved by Alexander Vukic and that SNS that he mentioned and what he would continue to solve. For millions of them, they got as much – less than one percent per million in the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15572	Thank you. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Replica. He didn't mention you. He was talking about the Vuk Jeremic campaign. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: He mentioned a parliamentary group. He didn't mention your MP group. Only if you want to let us know that you are a group of MPs, Vuk Jeremic. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: I did not. Then thank you. You helped me. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Don't be rude. Thank you for your compliment. It's never over. Thank you very much. Representatives of Sanda Raskovic Ivić, you are not Vuk Jeremic. You are not the parliamentary club that entered the election with the help of the Vuk Jeremic campaign. On what grounds should I give you a replica now? (Sanda Raskovic Ivić throws.) It's not. Take his two-minute speech. Read it, come to my desk and prove it to me. Thank you very much. The word has a minister. Here you go. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Moment one...) )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15573	Since it's brought out here to tell the truth, or to lie, I just have to remind myself of what I said at the beginning about electing a war crimes prosecutor. At a session held on 27 September 2016, the Council established a list of three candidates for the election of war crimes prosecutors to the government. Given the specificity of the prosecution's real and local jurisdiction for war crimes, the biographies of the proposed candidates, the experience so far in the handling of criminal cases which are within the jurisdiction of the War Crimes Prosecutor, as well as the criteria set out in Article 5. A law on the organisation of the authority of state authorities in war crimes proceedings, the government proposed to the National Assembly a list of two candidates for the election of war crimes prosecutor Snezana Stanojkovic, deputy in the First Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and Milan Petrovic, deputy war crimes prosecutor, which means it is not true that I did not say that three candidates were proposed by the State's chief prosecutor. When it comes to the election of prosecutors in the primary and senior prosecutions, there is a list of how it... Marco Djurisic throws. You judge who lies and who doesn't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15574	Rules of Procedure, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15575	Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Madam President, you were obliged to introduce order and peace here and discuss the subject. Just now, a young colleague spoke completely off the subject. I didn't mention any funding of SNS and his discussion reminded me very much of when I asked students – what are the symptoms of schizophrenia, and he started talking to me about when Napoleon was born. So that didn't have anything to do with anything, and stop asking you to keep pulling on some fictional connections of mine or this club with Vuk Jeremic about the story of us all being the ones who've ruined everything before. So you gentlemen are in charge of the sixth year... (President: It is a replica, MPs. I'm sorry to interrupt. It's a replica. Well, here's a replica that looks like his.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15576	Look what it looks like now. Everyone does what they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15577	Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15578	So he can't replicate the replica. Article 27 speaks of dignity. I'm sorry, Article 107. You said to introduce order and peace. Order and peace at least exist now. Okay, MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić doesn't even want to hear the answer, but you've talked about the roaster too, and it has nothing to do with the agenda, and this wasn't a discussion about the agenda, it's a replica, but whatever you want. Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15579	Just a note regarding Article 103. I'm telling you in advance that I'm not asking you to say yes by voting, but I think there's one thing you should always consider when something like this happens a little while ago. So it's about the obvious failure. When it comes to the Rules of Procedure, and then it doesn't give a proper explanation, so it's used for replication, it wasn't particularly convincing, we're all witnesses, but, uh, the mistake has been committed. And I think there should be some responsibility anyway. You know, he took advantage of someone here to stand up, he's looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure, to replicate. Once again, there was no effect, but I think there must be some responsibility. Article 103 says in the view that when a mistake of that kind is made, therefore, it is not advertised adequately, then it can be left without part of the time for further discussion. That's what I wanted to point to on this occasion. (President: You can only be injured by the Rules of Procedure. That's right. So, just to point out that we're taking care of this during further discussion, and as for the ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, my God, we've already had one course for young Members, we can probably organize it another time during this call. I'm sure many here would be very welcome. Now, let's make it a constructive proposal on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15580	Thank you. I don't feel any responsibility, and the MP didn't use the Rules of Procedure so terribly that I would have to use attitude 8. We have much more drastic examples, so I didn't use attitude 8. But if you think we should vote on the damage of the Rules of Procedure, if only I can commit... Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15581	Because of the extremely short time you've left us to discuss, I'll only be able to bury one of these important topics. The proposed amendments and additions to the legislation proposed by the prominent counterpart, the head of the ruling majority's parliamentary group, have another impact on the judiciary. In this argument, we do not see what these reasons are, and why did it take us to change the legal solution again in the short term and re-election of the President of the Courts, to shorten their mandate and to extend their stay at the post if they meet the conditions for retirement? There are no arguments, no attitudes of parallel practice, no expert organisations have come to terms on the issue, which means no one has asked the profession or the theoretical doctrine. It is another proof that there is not a strategy above all how the Serbian Progressive Party manages the judiciary, and I would like to say that this is even an illegal solution, given that Article 59. The law on judges has one older and more general norm, where it explicitly determines that the mandate ceases by the completion of the working century, when the judge is 65 years old. It's not your first time having one law with contradictory provisions. However, we have far more important problems in the Serbian judiciary than this law has tried to impose as a topic. It was mentioned earlier that 44% of judges said in an anonymous poll by the Association of Judges of Serbia that they suffered pressures, and above all targeted as the biggest source of pressure from the presidents, who are the channel most often influenced by the political structures of the executive and political parties to the judiciary. But I'd like to say that we can look at it from another angle. Namely, Article 280(1). The Code of Criminal Procedure stipulates that state and other bodies, legal and physical persons, report crimes for which they are prosecuted under official duty. Article 2 of the same article says the Criminal Code will be provided for in which case non-reporting a criminal offence is a criminal offence. Criminal activity according to Article 332. of Article 2. The criminal code represents when an official or responsible person who knowingly fails to report a criminal offence that he has learned in the course of his duties, if the act under law can be sentenced to five years in prison or more severe punishment, he will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. Furthermore, the Criminal Code stipulates that they are abuse of official office, violation of the law by a judge, a public prosecutor and his deputy, trade in influence, bribery and bribery. Now I ask the question - if 44% of the judges said it was forced to make decisions not under the law, but under the influence, and we have heard what the structures of influence are, are they only a victim or perhaps an accomplice to such a situation in the judiciary? Also, their colleagues who have this knowledge that there are colleagues who are victims of these pressures and have committed crimes, possibly, and do not report these crimes, do they also violate the law? This is a very difficult question, and I think you should give one such aspect of the observation. I'm asking here, how long have I been an MP, one question, and I never got an answer – what about 650 papers of judges and prosecutors who, at the moment they joined the SNS, were entitled because they weren't in their posts, but when the Constitutional Court returned them, they were not given a press release? Where are the prints with the dates of their membership from the SNS? You see, in your time as you were from the ruling majority in the opposition, you criticised the influence of Western NGOs in judicial reform, USAID, German GIZ, extremely generously involved in the justice system and reform of the so-called justice system. Justice. However, they continue to do so. The Justice Academy itself, which you have criticised as an opposition, is now one pillar that your Ministry of Justice is propagating and procuring. What, for example, about the humanitarian law fund and various other organisations still present in the Serbian judiciary? It's a Macedonian scenario that you keep talking about, and you cultivate it yourself in a branch of government what judicial authority is. I'd like to point out certain examples of what I've been saying. Namely, it is now an ongoing affair with the Daeners. Here I was asking a question when we adopted changes to the Criminal Code and when we deleted Article 228, it means that criminal prosecution is no longer subject to payment cards without cover. However, what are we going to do now that someone has allowed the Daeners, who was not a bank, but a DOO, to issue payment cards by 2016? Only then did the NBS adopt a regulation that introduced him into legal flows. What are we going to do, for example, that the prosecutors, the First General Public Prosecutor's Office and Prosecutor Ljuba Djordjevic, were prosecuted, on the basis of which the "Daners" was treated as someone who could issue a payment card? Also, may the Court of First Instance tell us how many individuals are judged by that? Next, how are the crimes done by the people in the judiciary? We have published an affair, we have called it "Dverlix", which is about carrying out various evidence that has not been used for what it has been prepared for, for processing crimes, but serves as a political influence. Here I point out that Zoran Ćopić Ćopa, a person convicted by law in both Serbia and BiH, is 18. 02. In 2009, they held several phone conversations showing that they held a meeting at the Zodiak cafe in Senjak with the president of the Zrenjanin Business Court, where they agreed on solutions in certain procedures. What kind of solutions do you see, for example, from his talk of 02? Three. In 2009, the document bears the name – state secret, you have it in court files number 5291, where he says about "Secerano" in Zrenjanin, which was in bankruptcy, a particular person he buys, the NN face, the male face – No, you don't buy from the company, you buy from the state, you buy from me, I'm going to sell to you, so I put the company into bankruptcy, reorganization means clean, no debt, no workers, no nothing, no load. Did this judge ever answer? Here, I ask the people of the State Council of Prosecutors who are present here, what are they doing on this matter or what are they doing on the matter that certain MPs from the Dveri Group present documents that are qualified as a "state secret" and suggest that you, people, are not doing your job? In the following points, I'll explain why you're not doing your job and why this is an important political issue. Point 11 of this agenda, we join the motion to abolish both the Court and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. There's absolutely no need for that. That court has had a political function so far and has not done its job in a legitimate and valid way and it is clear here to everyone. Why are we still holding him? I will not repeat the arguments that certain MPs have said before me, but I would also point out certain scandals of the Serbian judiciary concerning the proceedings under that court and the case which was only mentioned in a word, which is worth more, and this is the case of the "Ovcar" and the fate of five people that the court has ruined, Predraga Milojevic called the Chinese, Milovan Čužana, the face of Dragomir, I forgot, I think that Milojevic called Ceca from Sremska Mitrovica, Ljuboja Mare and Vujo Zlatar. These are the persons who are victims of the Serbian judicial system and we are all pretending here, sticking our heads in the sand, and no one is responsible for this, a number of crimes committed by persons involved in the process, by order of foreign power centres, the US Embassy, Mr Sam Nazar, who was then at the embassy, the Humanitarian Law Fund and Natasa Kandic. Please explain to me, how do the Serbian people organise this prosecution to come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, to listen to our citizens here, to take them there for certain reconstructions of events? You know that's why World War I broke out. That prosecution doesn't do its job, and the evidence for that is, has there ever been a procedure for the first and the basic crime from which all the other crimes that have to do with the war, a crime against peace? If he does not know the Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, he knows our law and why has the prosecution never prosecuted it? Why does it have to be lifted? Now I would also ask the minister to listen carefully to me for the next two agenda points, because she just asked us to point out the unworthyness of certain persons that should not be chosen, and it has to do with her personally. I'll get to that. In point 41, we choose Mr. Miljan Dedic as deputy in the Third General Prosecutor's Office and that face is controversial. Namely, the Anti-Corruption Agency sent a letter to the Prosecutor's Office, the Appealal Prosecutor's Office, or the First General Prosecutor's Office on the basis of the criminal charges by Angelka Dedic against the court's expert, Mirjana Labovic. They asked for a notice about the phase of the procedure. And they received two letters from the D.A. on 9 February 2007, p.r. the number 4027/16 and the same number 21 February 2017. The first was that the AKP and the Belgrade police administration provided the necessary documentation, and the 21st report that they found there were no elements of the crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15582	Ambassador, please don't read the numbers from the court records.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15583	Okay. What difference does it make? I will request that I be delivered the diploma of public prosecutor Susana Ristic, the proposed candidate, Dedic, as well as the prosecutor of the First General Prosecutor's Office, Mr. Djordjevic. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15584	By mistake, I ruled you out instead of myself. There's no evil intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15585	Just so I don't get my word off, that's very interesting. Mr. Djordjevic has pledged the post of prosecutor to this candidate, because the candidate signed the letter to the prosecution since 21 February 2017, that there are no elements of the crime, which he was promised would be a public prosecutor. Why is the interesting Mrs. Labovic, among other things, ATP Vojvodina's art, freed Bogoljub Karić and a very important procedure, is where I come to you otherwise, Mrs. Kuburović. If you remember, I asked you a question last year, how she was registered as a court expert when she has a degree that reads, so here's a copy of her diploma, that she finished her economy in 1984, the University of Kosovo in Pristina. Never the University of Pristina, the Ministry of Education provided information, has not named Kosovo University in Pristina. That woman has a falsified degree and you continue to tolerate her work. You answer to me that you're not in charge, you point to the D.A.'s office that you're not in charge of replacing prosecutors. Your secretary obviously doesn't know the law and Article 19. The Law on Judicial Experts, and also does not know the practice because Minister Nikola Selakovic resolved one court expert in 2013, I will reach him at the next point. I would like to provide you here with a document that I have for you, which concerns the case concerning the mentioned court and the Greek judge from the Third Basic Court. Namely, in court proceedings, between Prosecutor Mirjana Labovic and "Dan Grafa" d.o.o. The daily list "Today", the material was used as court evidence and thus rejected the criminal report by Mirjana Labovic. She, proven on what I am about to give you, said she was not an expert on one subject according to the rules of the profession but according to the instructions she received from the Greek judge. In a statement she gave to the state ministry on the occasion, given the criminal charges and the complaints received by your ministry, she decidedly says it is not true. You will hear audio footage from that trial that will prove otherwise. The VSS also has an objection against the Greek judge and has his statement where he also claims it is not true, I will hand you that evidence. Mr. Djordjevic, I mentioned in the parliamentary questions last week and I am waiting for Alexander Vukic's answer, is the godfather of Nenada Kovaca, called Nasha Roming, who is best man Nikola Petrovic and here we come to the 12th part of my presentation. You are proposing Gordana Colic to be the senior public prosecutor. In my time, Mr Petar Jojic climate, I remember that in 2010, he had an exhibition in the Assembly that he publicly pointed out why she should not be the prosecutor. You took her away and now you're bringing her back. Mrs. Colic is a real picture of the Serbian judiciary. Her unprofessional ability, corruption, political resemblance, nepotism, and haughtiness describe her entire career. In the complaint, one that her victim referred to the Ministry of Justice mentions a large number of properties she has. Also, in 2015, she was accused of receiving 610,000 euros. Nenad Kovač usually negotiated this with her son-in-law, Mr. Kopcalic, one of the largest construction contractors and construction mobsters in Serbia, at the "Moda" cafe in Vrakar. She received 610,000 Swiss francs to give immunity to Mr Savi Terzic, who is the person who manages "Bus Plus". The procedure also has to do with Mirjana Labovic and with everything I mentioned earlier, as well as with the whole "Dverlix". If you remember, Nenad Kovac spoke with Zoran Copic in 2009 and Mr Sava Terzic spoke with Zoran Copic. Now I ask the question, there are certain audio materials that are not included in the evidence, and as far as the investigation of the Darko Saric drug clan and money laundering, the "Balkan Warrior" affair. At the time, former prosecutor Rade Terzic, Tahir Kasanovic, a group of lawyers, Sead Spahovic, Vladimir Gajic and others, as well as Cane Subotic and his representative, Nenad Kovac, kidnapped Certus and stole 25m euros in two years. Those crimes were covered by Mrs. Cholic. She claimed that one contract which was the subject of a slow counterfeit and hired court expert Anica Bajic for that. Listen to me, Madam Minister, it has something to do with you. Court expert Anica Bajic has performed without a proper degree. I also have a copy of her degree, now I'm going to show it to you. Mr. Selaković, your predecessor in that place in 2013 resolved Anica Bajić because her diplomat Dr. Dragoljub Tatomirović, some criminal school, is nowhere to be seduced, nor in the APR that there is such an institution, nor is she authorised by the Ministry of Justice. In an appeal issued by Anica Bajic, she says she has a job as a grower, a talent as a grower and that she can solicit the field of graphoscopy. And you've recently returned it to the court-laws register. The procedure led then by Goca Colic as a prosecutor, otherwise it is an identical and litigative procedure where the contract was found to be original and not falsified and already has a judicial verdict on the matter. Her work in five and a half years as a senior prosecutor in Panchev and her colleague from the Main Public Prosecutor's Office was executed. They lost 535 cases in front of courts in Pancheva and Vrsac together. The state was forced to pay 57.642.254 dinars on behalf of the cost of the procedure, but the price is much higher, because you know well that the most expensive part, meaning persons who were innocent in custody, is paid through the Ministry of Justice from the budget. Otherwise, her work is just as interesting. The case of Mirjana Puzic, director of the Pančeva pharmacy against which the DRI submitted its request to initiate the infringement procedure in February 2013. The budget inspection found that it illegally spent 1.3 billion dinars on RFZO, and Gordana Colic gave an order to launch a criminal investigation, but included only 20% of the disputed work. So here you have one person directly involved in crime. I would also later hand you transcripts of listening conversations where the persons mentioned, Sava Terzic, Nenad Kovac, who instructed Goca Colic to act in these criminal acts, were part of the crime mile that was laundering money. One of these systems is “Bus Plus”, Sava Terzic is a person behind “Bus Plus” in the name of Nenada Kovaca. The godfather of Nenada Kovaca is Nikola Petrovic, who is the godfather of Aleksandra Vukic. There's a meeting in Mosha's villa, very interesting where they decided how to cover their actions. Zagorka Dolovac has not pleaded in a complaint to work on the meeting. I say, the Serbian judiciary is sick. I present evidence, I charge directly with the name and last name of a certain person, and I expect someone to react. All those who remain silent, and prosecutors, and judges, and officials of the Department of Justice, are accomplices, serious accomplices in committing crimes. Please don't wonder why 88% of citizens don't trust the judiciary. There's a big problem of injustice here, a serious problem of injustice and a citizen no one can protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15586	Thank you. (Vladimir Orlic: Replica. ) Mr. Orlic, the right to replication the president of the Serbian Progressive Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15587	That's right, Mr. Chairman, and thank you. So when someone tries to be interesting and thinks and skillful, by pointing fingers and accusing them, they try to bring people into a relationship with Alexander Vukic, and that doesn't turn out to be interesting or skillful, then they hear a replica. I don't know, but it looks like that's how it works. So this was pretty confusing. To hear you, too, Mr. Chairman, and the other MPs, and I believe you'll all agree, quite confusingly. Out of these twenty minutes, half of it hasn't been heard, there's been jumping off the topic, and there's some data, and one, and the other, and then the fifth, and it's all backwards. To tell you the truth, I didn't understand 2.29% of everything, not even 2.29%. I don't know why that number comes to mind when I answer to this league of experts, Ivan Dverner. They should stop doing so much of the content of what has been published by the "Tabloid" list, and that's what they've already been told when they were dealing with these topics here in the National Assembly Hall during the campaign this year. Here, now it looks like they're still making the same mistake, doing the same thing. Not only are they quoting the most ground floor and the most disgusting thing that exists on the media scene, not only are such societies being held up and these things are actually being served, but they really stop sounding both interesting and serious to anyone. That's not what I'm telling them, that's what the people of Serbia tell them, because, you know, 2.29% of the election results, I think he's picturesque enough to speak for himself. Another note at the very end, that 2.29% will be an astronomically high figure if they continue to deal with the work of MPs the way they do. If they said this just now just because they reacted to protect that dossal candidate, let them wonder how much is worth to them. The man went bankrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15588	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Mr. Nogo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15589	Replica, direct address of the previous speaker. I really don't know why he found himself called and offended, since I didn't mention his party and I pointed out serious problems. I'm giving evidence. These aren't the stories she told. These are audio footage collected by the security services of the Republic of Serbia. These are the materials that were seduced in the court files. This is a number of evidence: diplomas, assurances by official state authorities and institutions. So, final court proceedings. In no word have you been able to disprove me. You couldn't say I wasn't telling the truth. What are we gonna do about one serious problem? You know, there are certain people in the judiciary, certain people in those structures that go up to the top of the state to criminal structures that have endured every power. They are currently perfectly embedded in your system, but they have also been in previous systems. It's a serious and objective problem. Instead of asking yourself how to solve it, you simply react and defend certain things that are indefensible. What can you tell me about the arguments that Mrs. Colic does not meet the conditions of being a senior prosecutor? Nothing. What can you tell me that young Mr. Veljic does not meet the conditions of being a deputy in the Third General Prosecutor's Office? Nothing. I've brought serious evidence. I've provided evidence of certain court experts. I have provided evidence that records are falsified in criminal proceedings before the courts of Serbia, that the records are falsified even in litigation in Serbia's courts. A number of crimes committed by judicial officials, which don't even have to have anything to do with politics, but simply have to do with corruption, and no one reacts to that. Here, once again, I call upon both the competent institutions and the competent authorities, so why doesn't anyone invite me to the prosecution to ask me, if anything else, if I'm doing any crime, maybe by making such claims, or by asking me to present evidence and knowledge of this?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15590	Thank you, colleague Nogo. (Alexander Martinovic: As Proposer of the Law. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to refer to the criticisms referred to in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. For the first time I've heard that the Justice Act can be contradictory of the Judges Act. That's what we heard today. So, I suggested that the Presidents of the Court be elected for four years, not five years as it stands in the current Law on Judges. I think it is legitimate, because it is necessary to distinguish between the Supreme Cassation Court, where the president of the court is elected for five years as the Supreme Court in the Republic of Serbia and other courts in the Republic of Serbia. So, the Law on Judges, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, is also called because we want to change something already in the Law on Judges, that the Presidents of the Court are not elected for a period of five years, but for a period of four years, that they may be re-elected for a period of four years, and we suggest that the President of the Court of Justice, whose working time ends during the term of office, may be able to end his or her duties as President of the Court when his term of office expires. This is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the length of the term of office of the President of the Court of Justice, knows only the term of office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and everything else has been left to the National Assembly to regulate through the law and we do so this way. As for this "Dverlix" of yours, on which you based your election campaign, it was supposed to be the crown evidence, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, who will tear down, as you say, the Alexander Vukic regime, which will prove that your presidential candidate is best for Serbia. Your entire "Dverliks" was based on the texts of Milovan Brkić, you correct me if I am wrong, which, behold, is one of the students of spontaneously gathered citizens who were gathered here the other day in front of the National Assembly because, for the first time in my life, they are dissatisfied with the result of the presidential elections. So, your whole famous "Dverlix" affair is based on the texts of Milovan Brkić, which is very simple to check. Otherwise, you didn't say that Zoran Ćopić, whom you mentioned, was convicted in 2014. So, at a time when the SNS was in power. That's the only part you dropped out of your story. You mentioned everything, and Zoran Ćopić, and who he spoke to in 2009 when the SNS was not in power, and who the godfather is, etc., you also mentioned Alexander Vucic, but you can't say that this famous Zoran Ćopić was convicted just in 2014. Neither 2008 nor 2010, nor 2011, but in 2014. As you won't say today, all of you who are crying over the sad fate of the judges who allegedly pressured the SNS are over the latest case of Minister of Interior Nebojka Stefanovic. When the court condemned, or ruled that one weekly should pay Nebojsa Stefanovic's compensation for publishing his photo on the front page, where it was written – the main guy from Savala, then you all jumped on your feet – here, the SNS presses the judges, here is Goran Vesic, outside the court building, pressing to condemn that weeklyer, etc. Now that the verdict has fallen by appeal, and when that paper should not pay Nebojsa Stefanovic those, how many, 300,000 dinars, where is the pressure on the judges now? Where's your pressure on the judiciary now? It means to you how it fits. When a verdict is passed that you do not like, the SNS presses the judiciary. When you get a verdict that goes in favor of those who slander and lie, who can uninterruptedly post photos of people and say they're phantoms, then everything's fine, then there's no pressure on the judiciary. You say there is pressure on the judiciary by the SNS. I don't know where Marian Risticevic is. There's the man alive. Sasa Radulovic filed a private criminal suit against him for the words spoken here in the National Assembly. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the MP is free to take his stand in the National Assembly and cannot be prosecuted, nor can any other court proceedings be conducted against him. I'm not going out of courtesy to name the judge. The judge who judges Marijana Risticevic says: "What do I care what it says in article 103?" The Constitution, you will answer for what you said in the National Assembly. And now I ask you -- where is the SNS pressure on the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia? Who's putting pressure on who? I can say that Nebojsa Stefanovic is the victim of bad judgments. I can say that Marijan Risticevic is a victim of the poor anti-constitutional and illegal treatment of individual judges. As I can say, the entire Dverliks affair is based on the arguments Milovan Brkic, who protested here in front of the National Assembly building, which entered the annals of Serbian journalism because he claimed that Aleksandar Vukic had announced with his son and that the father of Alexander Vukic was allegedly an Albanian from Kosovo and Metohija. Just get baptized. Here, these are the arguments on which you are based your famous affairs and that is why it is not good for Aleksandar Vukic, which is why it is not good for the SNS, you are not good with the Minister of Justice, you are not good with the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, only you are good, and that is what the people have said. I heard the argument today, he says - we're against the government. Great, but the people are for the government, the people are for Alexander Vukic, the people said theirs the other day, and you're all as expensive as you can turn on your heads, but to reverse the political will of the people you can't. (Srdian Nogo: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15592	Mr. Nogo, you've made certain findings and asked certain questions as an authorised representative. You had an opportunity in an extra two minutes through the replica, and I made it possible for you to explain it because I thought you came forward for reasons that you weren't adequately interpreted. You have just received answers from the proposing representatives to the questions and findings that you have made. Now you really don't have a basis for replication. (Srdian Nogo: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We can't play, you won't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure now. You have to give me your word. My colleague Martinovic mentioned me. Mr. Nogo, you've launched this kind of debate. The breach of the Rules of Procedure can be done by me, not by Mr. Martinovic. (Srdjan Nogo: I said it was you, not that my colleague Martinovic hurt him. You think I'm done? Please explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15593	Please, Mr. Milicevic, Article 104. The Rules of Procedure - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolent, or incorrectly interpreting his presentation, then the MP to whom the presentation is addressed shall have the right to replication. Mr. Martinovic, as an authorised promoter, spoke exclusively about my presentations. He wasn't in any discussion with me before. So we haven't had any discussion all day. Depending on my presentation, he comments on my presentation and misreads it. Among other things, I mentioned article 59. The Law on Judges and, for example, I don't know if you're a lawyer, it doesn't matter. It issues a series of rough qualifications and lies about what I was talking about, citing for example. I've got audio footage, I've got transcripts, I've got other institutions. Please let me answer one such fact in two minutes. So you have no right to deny me a replica. I did not provoke Mr. Martinovic, nor did I mention him until now, so that it may be – we interrupt the debate. I just want to make an argument to put the facts straight and point simply to my exposure. I don't know what's so problematic and controversial, unless someone's more afraid of you than my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15594	Thank you, colleague Nogo. I think I have made it perfectly clear and precise to you – you have, as an authorised representative, presented a series of findings and asked certain questions. You're saying Mr. Martinovic looked back at your exposure. And what do you expect from the proposing representatives than to answer the questions you have asked and certain findings? I don't think I hurt a member of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? Of course I do, yes. I thank you. Mr. Martinovic, as a representative of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15595	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you followed closely what I was saying, I didn't mention anyone's name, except I mentioned the only name of someone who wasn't a National MP, and this is Milovan Brkic, and that the Dverliks affair is based on the texts of Milovan Brkic from his famous tabloid, and anyone can check it out if he enters the website of that list. So these are articles from around 2009, 2010. At that time, neither Zoran Copic nor Darko Saric with any of those faces, absolutely no one... (Srdian Nogo: What is this way? ) The people of this affair are very nervous, I don't know what is wrong with them, it seems that the affair didn't exactly follow their hand, or they failed to convince the citizens of Serbia that Aleksandar Vukic is the biggest villain in the Republic of Serbia and that he is the most responsible for the situation in which Serbia is. We're not nervous, you're nervous. ) I just mentioned that it is the source of all this information, that's what I'm saying because of my fellow MPs, and that's what I'm saying because of the citizens of Serbia, because things are being mystified here. There are no confidentiality and secrecy marks here, there are no court records, there are only articles and inscriptions of Milovan Brkić and that is the main and only source of your information. If you base your policy on it, great, I don't mind it, but I'm just telling you that in these elections, the people in this election have been evaluated by the fact that, as your colleague Orlic said, he has shown you confidence of 2.29%. If you were, as I say, a little politically wise, I think you should keep a picture of Alexander Vukic, whom you keep mentioning as an icon. If that man had decided to go to the election, you wouldn't have crossed the censorship, you would have seen the National Assembly possibly in some informative shows. So, you light a candle, you light candidiams for Alexander Vukic, you pray for his health, otherwise you might see the National Assembly on postcards, on information shows, on TV logs, but you wouldn't be here in the National Assembly, and that's quite clear. I repeat once again, the law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges has been proposed just to change something in the applicable law. And you tell me, but what you have suggested is in conflict with what is written in the Law of Judges. Well, I want to change the judge's law. Is that going to come with me depending on how skillful I am in argument? If I convince the MPs that what I suggest is good, people will vote for my proposal, if I don't convince them, they won't. But you can't say that the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges contradicts the Law on Judges. It's not. It's a proposal to change something in the Justice Act. I think this solution is better because it is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as far as the term of office of the President of the Court is concerned, knows only the length of the term of office of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. He left the rest to be regulated by the Law by the National Assembly. Whether what I suggest is good or not is not good, the MPs will evaluate it in the voting day. You cannot question the right of MPs to propose laws to the National Assembly. All of you from the opposition, all of you from the parties of the former regime are always at odds with yourself. Do you know what the biggest offense to this bill is, what I've been able to hear? The fact that the law didn't come, he says, from the government. When the law comes from the Government, then it is said, "Well, why do the messengers not propose a law?" You've got to figure out what kind of working technology you really want. When does the law suggest the government – then what came from the government? When one of the Messengers of the people suggested it, this was the government that hid behind the Messenger of the people. What has the government to hide behind me or behind anyone; the government that has achieved the best results in Serbia's modern history. A government that enjoys the overhalf majority, the support of Serbian citizens, to hide behind Aleksandar Martinovic? Well, that's funny. So I've proposed this law because I think its solutions are better than the applicable law. Whether the National Assembly adopts it or not will we see it in the voting day. As we're going to see, I can see that you're presuming, reading some documents about some public prosecutors, doing this or that, getting rich, etc. Did they get rich at a time when the SNS was in power? Did they get rich in SNS? Did they do everything they did during SNS? No, they're not. They were doing it at the time that Milovan Brkic published texts in Tabloid. In 2008, it was 2009, it was 2010. These are the years you're talking about. And if someone says it's not well interpreted, I interpret Serbian citizens as to what time period it is. It is the period when the regime of Boris Tadic ruled Serbia. We're talking about that time. For whom the National Assembly will vote on the list of proposed candidates, for judges, for public prosecutors, it is the discretionary right of every MP to plead. Just don't put any candidates on any court or any public prosecutor's office. Because none of these candidates have anything to do with SNS. That number of 600 judges who allegedly were members of the SNS, so apparently they didn't get the papers, you made that up, like you invented a bunch of other things. So what do we have to do now? Should we bring you non-existent SNS records? (Igor Becic: What kind of throw is that? So, I don't mind that they're getting Mr. Becic, it just shows how nervous they are and how unsettled they are. Serbian citizens should know that public prosecutors, that judges, or part of them, were working in the party's interest, which was replaced in 2012 with the will of the people. And, the texts of Milovan Brkic refer to the period when the regime of Boris Tadic ruled Serbia, and the only thing that is true, and what you deliberately dropped to say, is that this famous Zoran Ćopic really had contact with certain people of the then state structures, you just forgot to tell Serbian citizens that Zoran Ćopic was convicted in 2014 at the time of Aleksandar Vucic and at the time of the Serbian government of SNS. Not because Alexander Vukic and SNS had an impact on the Serbian judiciary, but because the courts then gained the courage to judge by the Constitution and law. By 2012, judges were under terrible pressure. If that were the case, you will hear the case of Vojvodina Development Bank, the Vojvodina Development Fund, the Capital Investment Fund. It tells you a case of numerous abuses in the republican ministries when none of the courts could do anything against the people who were the protagonists of the largest robbery in the history of Serbia that occurred between 2000 and 2012 and when over half a million people were out of work. Among them are those you wave with your hands and your coalition partners, formerly, presently, those you run with at the foreign embassies, those you call for help when you get 2% of the votes in the elections, and they are guilty of both the situation in the Serbian judiciary and the situation in the Serbian economy. We are trying to fix this situation and what gives us satisfaction for our work is that citizens recognize the hard, painful but comprehensive work of Alexander Vukic and the government that is at the head, including us SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15596	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising article 106 regarding article 109. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your permissiveness towards the opposition, but all the time while fellow Martinovic was speaking to the opposing side, here's another rude behavior, another distraction from the speakers, they're the nice ones, the ones from Sasa Jankovic, who plead that while someone is saying that freedom of speech should be respected, which speaks of the rule of law. All the time while fellow Martinovic was speaking to a fellow opposition party, he threw, waved his hands, here's something I'm going to pull on his lungs, make a break, so he threw all the time, which is what Rule 106 of Article 3 says is not allowed. I appreciate that lenientness, but in accordance with Article 109, that in the future, not now, you make sure that when your colleagues spread out, they spread out, when they get all the time and in such a way as to distract the speaker, that you warn them that you can give them a warning in accordance with Article 109 that provides for such situations. I believe that perhaps with you, given they broadcast in their speech such a robust force, there may be some fear, especially when their boss has destroyed this Hilandar, but Mr. Chairman, you're a man, they usually attack only women in RIK and the municipality of Pecinica, there's no reason to fear, and if you apply Rules of Procedure 106 and 109 members. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15598	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. There is no belief in any fear nor do we have the double arches nor the leniency of MPs, nor when it comes to MPs of the opposition, we solely see that we are handling what is precise and clearly defined in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15599	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15600	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Mr. Nogo, you wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure. The replica? [[Srdian Nogo: No, but a replica.]] You haven't mentioned Mr. Nogo for a moment. Please, we're going back to the debate. The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the representatives of the ministry, Mr. Chairman, it has really become symptomatic that we MPs spend more time and pay more attention to the agenda, I'm not saying it doesn't matter, but today we've devoted five, six hours of time to it, so that then on the subject of the agenda, we'll have a total time of just five hours, plus speaking to authorised representatives. It just doesn't make sense, and it really has nothing to do with parliamentaryism. In the future, I hope that when this situation arises, the parliamentary majority will at least propose twice as much time for discussion. When the agenda is this big. And when, otherwise, on the agenda of this National Assembly, there are points that are very important, such as the judiciary, when we MPs who have been invited and elected to regulate the judicial system here, or when we are invited to participate in the choice decision-makers of the judicial office, then the least we can do is show consciousness, if we have, or some may not, how much reform of the judiciary have actually been very weak so far and how weak the results have been. These reforms are slow first, then they are insufficient, then they often go the wrong way, and I am not talking about the situation that is totally anti-civilisation that we party politicians are at all involved in deciding the issues of election by judicial officials. Whether it's about the judges, whether it's about the presidents of the courts or the prosecutors. It simply doesn't matter what it takes to achieve this because of the action plan, Chapter 23, which we agree on our right to EU law, we need to change the Constitution. It is simply not civilized, that party people, especially parties in power, are given the opportunity to influence the choice of a legal holder. And here we repeat a tradition where these parties are always older than institutions. 'Cause who's he gonna do it for? They will mainly ask for information from parties and institutions, but above all from the party. That's where we suffer the damages of the citizens, but so do we from the opposition parties. The first item of the agenda is – a proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges which one MP tabled, and I can agree, to say that not always has to be the Government and that it is better that sometimes some of the laws proposed by MPs are put on the agenda, but I cannot agree that it is such a small change that it is enough that one single MP, I do not understand why it is not at least the parliamentary group or the parliamentary majority proposed either by at least a group of MPs or at least by the chairman of the Justice Committee, but it is simply an incredible reduction, but it is not irrelevant these changes. This reduction of the term of office from five years to four years in order to give meaning to the Supreme Cassation Court can be controversial, but let's not say it doesn't have to, in order to be a better frequency, I think it's a really controversial provision under which we MPs here, by law, allow the possibility that those who have completed their working time can continue to work as long as the function of the President of the Court. So what, if it's little in this country, we don't have enough judges, prosecutors, lawyers, lawyers with a criminal trial, so it's not some who leave this country. We have so many trained personnel with experience, and why would we be reducing the chance of someone else becoming president of a court who may not have a chance by the time this term is over, maybe he'll end his working life. For example, I'm talking. Why should we reduce our chances? Why should we tie our hands to the High Council of the Judiciary, to be limited in this regard that if someone wants to extend and if they have fulfilled the working age that they can do so. Completely unreasonable, and completely irrational especially in a country that has a lot of lawyers with experience and a passed judicial exam. He's got them on the desk with experience. I don't see the need absolutely. As far as the D.A.'s election goes, I also don't think we're invited, nor should I be interested in biography or should I be interested in the way it's being stabbed, because it's the only thing that can be done by profession. I can't even ask how these points are at all, is that a fair number of points, you understand? So, just the waist exclusively waist. Now, look at the situation we're in right now. Is there a competition in September 2015 for 55 public prosecutorial functions? We're just one partial number since September 2015 and today we're only picking thirty-three more things, I think 33. What time is this? Consider that in this country missing every fifth prosecutor is a vacant place. Is that right? Is it true we're missing 117 prosecutors or a deputy prosecutor? And then every prosecutor has nearly 1,200 cases. Is that right? Why did that tight throat get to the blockage? Then how does this state, how the state authorities work, how did we let so many people miss out on such important functions that this judicial system could work? A very simple, very reasonable question. I'm really looking for a minimum explanation, and then we come to point 11, which is very important for us from the Liberal Democratic Party, because for us, facing the past, and choosing a war crimes prosecutor, is one of the preconditions for being a fairer society, that we can make peace with our neighbours and enjoy good neighbourly relations. Why have we waited a year and a half for this war crimes prosecutor to choose? Really incomprehensible. Here we got a proposal from the government in April, right? The state's major prosecutors proposed to the government in September last year. The Prime Minister said that in early December, I remembered those statements, that he would be elected in early November, to say in late November, that then in early December he would say by the new year and finally here we are in mid-May, meaning a year and a half we don't have a war crimes prosecutor. What was stopping him? At least he owes us some reason. It's not just two résumés. We need to know what it is. It turns out that the National Assembly was the most effective, because here we have scheduled a session, was on the agenda of May 11th, and the government submitted the proposal on April 25th. I think it's a failure of the Prime Minister. Another one of the dark spots in his term. That's a very important question for us. After all, it is a political issue, which also affects the credibility of a country. You can't cool off the relationship with one country, diplomatic relations with one country that we've always had good relations with, I mean France, let some historian correct me if I'm wrong, but I think this is the first time that these diplomatic relations have been cooled down, because the French state, or French courts, have not complied with our request for the extradition of Ramush Haradinaj. That was the reason for us to cool off, for the first time in the history of diplomatic relations. What credibility we have, then from the position that France delivered to us Ramush Haradinaj, responsible for pressing charges, would be the state's attorney for war crimes, which this country doesn't have for a year and a half. Is that right? It's a simple destruction of the country's reputation. Second, as far as the war crimes prosecutor is concerned, I saw that last February the government adopted a National Strategy for War Crimes Prosecution. The question arises why the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office didn't do it. It's been so long. One of the most recent news, here on the site, is that on April 6th, a new and extended indictment of war crimes was filed on the train on the road to Strpci towards 20 people. The crime was committed in 1993, and in 2017, here, on April 6th, we have recently filed the indictment again. It should be borne in mind that indeed, over time, 24 years have passed, the evidence is harder to find, some witnesses are neither alive nor able to... So, this country's interest, I object to all those colleagues who were in favour of this prosecution and special court, no. The country's interest is that the state's war crimes prosecutor and the war crimes court still exist, because it's the only way to face the past and really become a fairer society. I would also mention, and in this regard, that for a year and a half, the government has not proposed a man who will be a war crimes prosecutor, that this DOS, which is so often criticised and mentioned as the worst thing that has happened to this country, I, for example, mentioned some laws during last session where DOS has raised standards that are not being met today. For example, I was talking about the Law on Public Procurement, on the control of corruption, that it was adopted during DOS, and the Law on the Broadcasting Agency, that then, of course, they were improved, conditions were created for better media freedom. Today I am going to say that this law has been passed by the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of the War Crimes Procedure Authority, in fact, that law was passed on 1 July 2003 and the State Prosecutor for War Crimes was elected in the same month, so on July 20, 2003, and he has served there until 31 December 2015, since we do not have that institution. We have, therefore, the acting officer, his first deputy to change it, and for which, right to tell you, it is not clear when a man is there for a year and a half, why he has not been shown confidence. He did suggest, but apparently there was some problem, whether he didn't justify the requirements that were ahead of him, or he was, we just needed to get some explanation. At the very end, I would say that we should try, each of us, to sort of map problems in the judiciary, just to show that we have the awareness that we are moving towards these challenges and that each one in its own way will try to contribute to the situation in our judicial system being better. Then I'm just from some personal experience and mapped out some problems that we should fix in the future. The first problem is what I was talking about, negative selection in the election of judges. It just can't be a party, and it can't be. Only then will we get to improve quality and improve the efficiency of the judiciary, as this often leads to intricacies. Simply, this negative selection also leads to the choice of some and unprofessional people. Secondly, what's very devastating is irresponsibility for bad work. The disciplinary authorities of the High Council of the Judiciary do not function. That's what's also the problem. It is rare that when issues of responsibility are raised by judicial officials, I do not say how old the verdicts are so far. Whoever's responsible for this, let's say, is responsible for the judges. I mean, some cases are known, for example. A case of Pahomia or a case of beaten-up resistors in Porevac, there are those cases that know how much. We don't even know how many there are or who's responsible for it. Furthermore, the judges are quite focused on numbers, to finish, because they are overloaded, to complete as many cases as possible, then it goes to the harm of the quality of trial and justice at all. Furthermore, the problem is a real and bad organisation of courts, lack of space and technical means. An irresponsible relationship with the archives, no one ever mentioned it, and simply, that's important. This is important for the functioning of the judiciary, for the practice of justice, for the construction of all these institutions. Not to speak further, long-term disputes, etc., etc., and even violations, even the adoption of laws and measures taken in such a way as to ultimately constitute a violation of the rights of citizens, such as: The law on enforcement and security, where the Ministry of Justice has left the transitional provisions at the will of the courts individually, means they have discretionary authority to apply those instructions, or not, to behave freely, which has led to the suspension of a large number. Hundreds of thousands of objects have been suspended because it's just... Also, of course, the problem is that judges are also afraid to judge cases where the Republic of Serbia is being sued and we can freely say that independence has not been achieved and that, as I have already said, judges and prosecutors must be more visible to their responsibility. Their responsibility, believe me, is nowhere, absolutely nowhere to be seen. And we should influence that better as a parliament, and not, say, those mere elections that we're not invited to, nor are we able to do, and I'm saying, only benefits can have parties in power and no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15602	Thank you. Minister Nela Kuburovic is represented by the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15603	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have repeatedly had the opportunity to hear now that it is not civilised that the National Assembly decides on the holders of the prosecutor's office, as well as on the choice of judges, and this is precisely coming from whoever has had a very good chance if it is not civilised to change, for several years, and to carry out these amendments to the Constitution and then, to amend the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. It is true that the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, has pledged to reduce political influence when it comes to selecting legal holders. This was also established by the Action Plan for Chapter 23 and that is what the Ministry of Justice is working very hard on. You are probably aware that there is a Commission for the Implementation of the National Strategy for Justice Reform, which is very much dealing with this issue, that an analysis of constitutional provisions has been carried out, concerning the selection of judges and public prosecutors and, on the basis of this analysis, the amendment that will one day be on the agenda in the Assembly to discuss them. But as long as we don't change the Constitution, I think we should all respect constitutional provisions and laws and carry out the procedure of the holders of judicial functions accordingly. When it comes to the election of public prosecutors, which we are discussing here today, I must point out for who knows which time this may be the most transparent process of the election, since I have already pointed out that the government has not corrected the list delivered by the State Council of Prosecutors, but has just passed on to the National Assembly of the candidate for whom the profession is, most of the members of the State's council are the prosecutors themselves. Some decisions were made during the proposal, as some members of the state's council of prosecutors would also say by revoted the minister. I, as someone who may not have been for one of these candidates, have to respect the will of the majority, which is why the government respected it, so she passed it on to the National Assembly. I believe that as long as the National Assembly chooses public prosecutors, it can discuss both their expertise and their dignity. When it comes to the election of war crimes prosecutors, it is not true that the government did not propose for a year and a half, since it was the original proposal that did not pass in the National Assembly and the State's Major Prosecutors opened a new contest in February 2016. Neither the prosecutors themselves were so zealous, nor rushed to propose candidates, but only after seven months ended the process of proposing, ranking and only at the end of September delivered the proposal to the government of the Republic of Serbia. If you followed at the beginning of my presentation, I told you that not all candidates for the basic and senior public prosecutor's office were proposed on that occasion, that the State's senior prosecutors decided in September to re-open the competitions for individual prosecutions, so that we only received the final papers in January, and I think it was more comprehensive to discuss all the prosecutors in one session of the Assembly, not that this was happening at several stages. I don't think the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has been disabling to work. If you look at the statistics of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, during 2016 and 2015, you can see that in the previous year 15 indictments were filed, unlike in 2015, when none were filed when we had war crimes prosecutors, and at the time when the prosecutor's office had 15 charges filed, which means the prosecution and how it could work. When it comes to the Ramush Haradinaj case and whether or not someone could have acted, or prosecuted, the case against Ramush Haradinaj and how it is conducted in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and there is a deputy in charge of the case and can act regardless of whether we have a prosecutor elected or not. Is it a scandalous decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to relations with France? I'd say he didn't. I find it a scandalous decision of the French court. I also respect how the independence and independence of the courts when they make their decisions, but when you look at the decision that we had the opportunity to win, and this clearly indicates that the decision is both political and not at all, even the French court itself did not say that Serbia was not unable to judge and to provide basic guarantees for the defence proceedings and rights of Ramush Haradinaj. On the contrary, it is also highlighted in the decision itself, and even more so on the 25th page, it is fully explained that the request for extradition was established, that all the conditions for it were met, even rejected, and any objection by Ramush Haradinaj, who put it in the process itself, that the procedure had become obsolete, that it was a politically motivated procedure, that he had already been legally released. Each of these proceedings was killed by the court itself in Kolmar and found that the conditions for the conduct of the proceedings were met, that the procedure before the Serbian authorities was not the same procedure against which he was tried before The Hague tribunal, where there was no statute of limitations of prosecution and that the conditions for the proceedings were met. Unfortunately, scandalous is the last page of that decision where, even possibly, an average-knowledge lawyer could not believe what was written, which is that his extradition would cause him greater damage to his personality. I must point out that France, when it comes to the International Convention for Extradition, in the adoption and ratification of this Convention, has, in the context of this situation, made only the adoption of a reserve relating to sickness and age. I don't think any of these criteria are met when it comes to this accused person, even those criteria were not dealt with by the French court. What is scandalous and devastating is that the reason why an extradition request was rejected is that Ramush Haradinaj is a political public figure of the so-called. Kosovo, that it participated in armed conflicts, that it is a member of a state which the Republic of Serbia does not recognise. I don't know who could accept such an argument at all and lead him under the fact that the reasons that he was told would be personal damage, leadership and extradition to the Republic of Serbia. Certainly, the French court's decision is shameful and scandalous and must affect the diplomatic relations that exist between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of France. As far as the election process is concerned, I must once again say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has fully respected what the State's Major Prosecutors have delivered and has just ruled the profession when it comes to proposing all these candidates. When we talk about the responsibility of the legal holder, of course, as minister of justice, I feel that this is something that needs to be done. Although I am not a representative of the motionor, in front of the High Council of the Judiciary, but as a member of that body and as I must point out that the disciplinary authorities and how they work and during the previous year we had several resolutions of the judges precisely because of severe disciplinary violations. You mentioned, I don't know what context, and the law on enforcement and security, stating that the transitional provisions of this law left discretion to the courts. I'm not sure I understood you very well. The transitional and final provisions allowed executives to decide whether to continue their proceedings before the court or not. It's based on what the executive trustee himself is, which is certainly the most interesting thing about the process itself, to end it, to do, and that's why there's been a suspension. I have to draw attention to the fact that when it comes to the application of the law on enforcement and security, sometimes very often it is said that there has been an end to the procedure. It is precisely these transitions that after many years the final provisions forced the courts themselves to update their cases and to adapt the actual state of affairs with the state of the case files and the records they were keeping, because they were numerous cases where large creditors and previous years provided evidence that the debts had been settled, only that the courts had not updated it and did not mark those cases as resolved. This was just one way to update statistics through the application of the new law and finally get to the exact number of cases that burden the courts or not, so as not to constantly withdraw a figure of close to two million old executives that are very often and justifying for the unhappiness and long duration of proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15604	Thank you. My colleague Micic, you have no right to a replica. Natasa Micic: How come I don't have one? No, you got the answers to the questions you asked. (Nataša Micic: I was misread. You're an excellent interpreter. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go. Mr. Kiriq, come in. [[Natasa Micic: Please reply.]] (Natasa Micic: The minister did not understand me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15605	I'll leave my two minutes to Mrs. Micic, if he wants to? (Nataša Micic: Just for a little while.) I'll explain it in three sentences. Can I get a line? ) Dear Chairman, dear Madam Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, of course I had the desire to give space to my colleague Micic to use for two minutes and to respond to what was being opened as a topic of discussion. I think there was plenty of time for everyone who spoke for 20 or 40 minutes, as authorized representatives on this agenda point, to say their views. I guess there's not so much patience here to hear the word of the opposition. I think it marks today and the work of the Assembly. I think it is important to say that the institution of the Assembly, the institution of the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice does not have great confidence in the citizens of Serbia, and we are all aware of that. We can agree on a common goal of freeing the judiciary, the judicial authorities as much as possible from the influence of politics. We should all wonder today how much we have contributed to this debate through our conduct and work in the Assembly, precisely in raising citizens' confidence in the institution of the Serbian Parliament, in the institution of the Justice Minister, in the institution of the judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia. It's a responsibility, not just the ruling majority. I also feel it as a responsibility as head of the parliamentary group of one of the opposition parties. Today we began the work of the Assembly by proposing about 25 to 30 laws by the DS Parliament Club. Of course, none of these laws have been put on the agenda. One of the laws of the head of the SNS parliamentary group has received that support... (President: Can you go back to the topic, counterpart Kiric? I let you go for three minutes. ) I am just coming up with the bill that the president of your coalition has proposed and adopted, which we are talking about today. It's one of the three system laws I'm going to talk about, because at 43 points of the agenda, we have three laws. There's one law on changing the law on choice of judges, we have laws on confirming loans, and we have elections, and I'm not going to talk about individual solutions, names and last names. My colleagues and colleagues will discuss this in more detail in tomorrow's debate. I will try to contribute, once again, to the responsibility of building together the seriousness of this institution, because I am sure that we will have better quality laws and greater citizens' trust and certainly more successful implementation of everything we adopt here, if we convince citizens that we are really working on their benefit and for their benefit. As a result, the atmosphere in which we work is also important, and that is why it is important and inseparable and this issue of the atmosphere and the way we work in the congregation. Unfortunately, it will certainly not contribute to the confidence and trust of what you have said, and that is the goal, not only of reaching and opening chapters 23 and this path to European integration, but certainly, above all, of more trust of citizens in judicial authorities in Serbia. Are we going to catch up with them in such a way that you, as Minister of Justice, have been put in a position to defend a law here in the name of the Government, which has not been passed by the Ministry of Justice to this Republic Assembly, has been filed by one of the parties, in fact by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, because it is obviously easy to conclude that it is not a system law, but a law motivated by political motives? What makes me say that? We have heard the argument that one of the greatest motives is that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, elected in a way defined by the Constitution and within five years, but in one term, is equalising or putting in a better position than the President of the other courts in the Republic of Serbia, by choosing them and reducing them to four years, but, of course, in two mandates and the possibility of having their re-election and the ability to manage eight years of courts. I think that inconsistencies, precisely in the fact that the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation under the Constitution limited to five years of office, are being placed in a position that is in some way not equal to the presidents of the primary courts and their election of eight years. I think it's also important to say, how this item of the agenda got into the procedure and how we adopted it, and by emergency procedure. One of the reasons why it is adopted in an emergency procedure is that the Proposer of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, says the adoption of the draft law by emergency procedure is necessary because of the possible adverse consequences of the functioning of certain courts, unless this proposal is adopted. What does that mean? Could you have had that assessment at the Department of Justice? Will that, too, be of interest to me, in what way would it endanger the work of individual courts? I think in that sense you owe the answer to the MPs, too, but once again I say, you're put in a position that isn't really grateful at all. What is important in this common goal, and I believe in the sincerity of that goal, is to depolitize courts, the judiciary, and that is that a previous solution with a five-year cycle has just been primarily made because we are skipping this magical cycle of four years, a cycle of democratic change and democratic elections. I think that this five-year cycle is precisely a guarantee that we can skip political decisions and that we have some continuity in some of the important institutions. In this way, equating the four-year cycle, the election cycles that are even shorter with us, we bring, of course, into a situation of each of us to wonder whether this motive for equating the democratic cycle, the election cycle with the election and the judges themselves, the prosecutors, the president of the courts, is precisely the motive to choose in this direct political way. That's why I think it's a bad solution and that's why it's not consistent, and I mentioned, first of all, that there is a discrepancy with the way the Constitution is chosen, which says how the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected. And you mentioned that it is necessary to define it by the Constitution and I don't think it's good to change it this way, not consistently enough, and I think that, in that sense, it should work so that this Assembly, by defending institutions and the judicial system and the institution of the Assembly, can discuss it that way. Another important thing that points to your ungrateful position, which I do not want to abuse in any way, because I think it is important to talk here, and we have talked a little bit about, and these are the Laws on Confirming Loans and above all loans for restructuring and development and reform of public enterprises in Serbia. Public companies in energy are mentioned, systems that are important for the life of Serbia all the years to come, so systems that overrule the country's economic development. What makes me think you're really in an ungrateful position? I cannot ask you these questions, but for the sake of the public, I want to say that a year and a half ago here in this Assembly, we adopted a bill to confirm the guarantee agreement, a restructuring project of the EPS between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 200m euros. So today we need to make a decision on borrowing the new 200m euros and it raises more questions. So it is not easy to decide on these 200m euros unless we have information from the finance minister, the secretary of state, or the director of the Public Debt Administration. One of them was supposed to be here, to introduce us to the state of public debt in the Republic of Serbia, how this decision will affect the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, the future of Serbia and our responsibility for what state and institutions we are talking about in the beginning leave to our children. I think it is insufficiently responsible that in this way we receive information about such an important law and only 200m euros in new debt from the Republic of Serbia. Public debt isn't the only reason. I think it's important, and that's what we're talking about, as MPs, we get information about the effects of the laws we voted for here. What are the effects of this law that we adopted a year and a half ago and a 200m-euro debt to restructure the EPS? We have heard a lot in public, from the previous EPS director, on corporateisation, on the solution of major structural problems in the EPS, on great success, on major progress, and here yesterday, we have information from prominent economists in Serbia who say gross social product in Serbia, in the first quarter, increased by 1%, the primary impact on such small growth of the gross social product is the decline in production in the EPS of 18.5%. So, in the first quarter, almost 20% in electricity production. What does that mean for Serbia's economy? We're aware of that. Do we have enough parameters without the Minister of Finance present, without the Secretary of State, to discuss the new debt in the right way now? This is the first job of 200m euros. Now we can do an analysis, what has this 200m-euro debt done to us and our pressing the taster and that decision? It is okay to corporateise, restructure the EPS and the fall, after all, the greater public debt by 200m euros and the decline in electricity production by 20% in the first quarter of this year. So what's this loan gonna get us, which we're talking about now? That's what I wanted to ask the finance minister, the energy minister and those people who can answer in a metric way about all this. How can we decide this? That's the question. Is that 200m euros needed for the general atmosphere, which is in the largest number of these public systems that are the subject of this decision and of the EPS, and of Serbia, and of Serbia's Railways, above all, in a way that will reduce the number of employees in this system? We have already talked about this, in the view of creating an atmosphere in which Serbia is constantly in need of a mentor, in which Serbia does not have enough... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15606	Mr. Kiriq, I ask you to return to the agenda. You create a situation in Serbia that needs a mentor. Let me remind you. This morning at 8:45 he was the Financial Committee and you know very well that you are not telling the truth, so I ask you to return to the loan which is programming, which is defined by the Budget Law and which returns debts from 2010 and 2011. So that's what you're talking about, and you're not talking about EPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15607	Let me finish, because I'm talking about the agenda right now. I will read to you the Law, and I will show you how much this is a topic, because my dilemma is whether the loan is needed through the Supervisory Board of Elektroprivreda Serbia to bring forward a work force optimization plan for the period 2016-2019, which sets out medium-term objectives, the optimisation process, severances, selection criteria, appeal mechanisms and the planned timeframe for reducing the number of employees – 200m euros. I think the legitimate issue for each of us, every citizen of Serbia, every EPS worker, every employee of any public enterprise in Serbia. Is this our key goal – restructuring and borrowing of 200m euros for this kind of need and this type of activity, plus the previous 200m a year or a year or a half, or is it the goal of investing those 200m euros in new capacities, in increasing production, in new hydropower plants, in maintaining the blocks in thermal power plants, to maintain and increase production? That's a question for all of us. I don't know why we should avoid these topics, and why would we listen to buttons and say, "We vote, in any case, on this kind of duty?" And that's where I'm gonna stand, on this subject. But you know well, here, after five years, mentioning these regimes of Boris Tadic, here, now, about the five-year-old regime of Alexander Vukic, 15 billion euros in public debt in July 2012, 25 billion euros, here, March 31st, because I will only refer to the data, since you say that we are not talking about official data, to the Public Debt Administration's data... (President: Mr. Kiriq, you want to tell me what law you're talking about? ) About the law affecting the rise of public debt in Serbia and our obligation to see how this law... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15608	Comrade Kiric, you've missed the law. That law is not on the agenda. I don't know what you're talking about. (Goran Ciric: Yes. No, it's not. What did you read, I don't know what law it says? Ask for a word again and talk about a law that's on the agenda, that's what I'm asking you. (Goran Ciric: I read the law. How much time do I have left? You've got a little less than eight minutes left. Ask for a word. (Goran Ciric: I asked for a word. You're not in the system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15609	This way of leading the congregation is another confirmation of what I was saying at the outset. If we avoid these issues, stick our head in the sand and don't talk about key challenges with each of these laws, we won't find a solution. And I'll figure it out here. I'll use those remaining seven minutes tomorrow. I think it is important that we all understand here that we have responsibility for all these systems that are supported by this law on new debt, both EPS and "Serbiagas" and "Serbigas" and "Serbs of Serbia", not by becoming owners and managers of these public enterprises, but by making them more valuable and by investing in them and saving them for future generations. I try to talk about the future and the way we decide these laws, by taking care of these systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15610	The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as legislator of the law, I want to inform fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I want to inform the citizens of Serbia, that the Democratic Party knows by which time it tried to deceive the MPs and deceive the citizens by knowing that they are false. The president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group held a meeting of the Finance Committee this morning, where he was told very precisely the following information on the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (the first programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Mr Branko Drcelic, acting director of the Public Debt Administration, told him this. Here's the thing. I'm saying this not because of them, because it's obviously not worth explaining much to them, they're here to try to cloud and cloud the situation, and we from the Serbian Progressive Party are going to try to get facts out. So, the president of the Democratic Party Group and all the members of the Finance Committee were told the following: this loan is actually a loan re-programme that you took at a time when in 2010 the credit rating of Serbia was such that we took loans at an interest rate of 5, 6, 7 percent and more, and this loan that you now spoke so dramatically of, as some plague for Serbia's economic life, was taken at an interest rate of 2.2%. This shows how much Serbia's credit rating in the world has jumped, and in fact it shows how much the Serbian economy strengthens. Also, you have been told this morning, but for some reason you are hiding it from the public and you are not going to say it, but you are probably trying to abuse the fact that there is currently no representative of the Ministry of Finance in the National Assembly, so you are also told by the following information – that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on 31 December 2016 amounted to 24.8 billion euros, and that on 1 April 2017, it is 24.1 billion euros, which means that for all four months we have paid off 700m euros in debt owed by the Democratic Party on the original loan from 2010, when our credit rating was such that we took in fact green loans, because the world rated us as one economic black hole in Europe. Let me remind you, Mr. Kiric, that was when the gross social product was negative, we had a minute of four feet of gross social product. Today we go to three, three and a half, four percent in plus, and that's why our credit rating is growing, and we took this loan to actually pay back the debts you owed us with, only this loan is much cheaper than the loans you've taken. If anyone has no moral right to talk about categories such as debt, borrowing, robbery, privatisation, public finances -- this is the Democratic Party. It is a party that has ruined the Serbian economy, a party that has ruined Serbian public finances, a party that has, among other things, ruined those people in Gosa in Smederjevska Palanca, and now the government of the Republic of Serbia is paying them one-time aid of 65,000 dinars and in the next 16 months, if I am not mistaken, another 30,000 dinars. Just so you know, the Serbian government is able to do this precisely because we have recovered our system of public finances, because we have a healthy budget and because today we are in debt at interest rates that are incomparably lower than when you ruled Serbia, but you, Mr. Ciric, you know. This morning, you were told the information, but here, for some reason, you want to scare the citizens of Serbia as we are actually in additional debt. No, I don't. We're paying back the debts you've owed us and as you can see, only for the first four months of this year have we managed to repay 700m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15612	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, People's MP, have you given up? Right on line, MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15613	First of all, I will never deny you the right to speak, since you have said, you have no right to speak. Everyone here has the right to speak and that's the function of the Assembly. So everyone has the right to speak, especially when he talks about numbers, about the profession, and when he doesn't speak personally, and when he doesn't insult the MPs personally, or his children, or his family. You could never hear that from me, and I will defend everyone's right to speak in this congregation, including you. But I have to say, of course, I've listened to it for five years and I've listened to it for five years, everyone in Serbia has heard it. You're in debt to expensive loans, we're just repaying expensive loans, and how come the 15 billion-dollar inherited public debt in 2012 is now 25 billion? Ten billion more. If you'd only paid back your dear debts, you'd have reduced your interest, and the debt would have remained 15 billion. It's a simple calculation, it doesn't need to be an economist, it doesn't need to be a macro-economicist. So ten billion euros for five years' greater public debt. It's a fact and I'm talking about it. And the question is, and that's what the Assembly needs to talk about. Where's that money? Where are the effects? It's okay, there's something left, but it's important to get to know the public about it. I'm inviting you and everyone else to talk about it. When I was talking about this law, I was just calling on all of us to strengthen the institution, to encourage each other, to talk openly about every challenge, every problem, every law and the effects that these laws bring. That way we can build a serious state.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15614	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15615	Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising article 100. If you want to settle down and deal with the opposition, both the DS and the MPs, you must go down among the MPs and leave the presidency to someone else. You can't interrupt Mr. Kiric from there five times during his exposure. Read the article clearly 100, and come down, and answer him from the place where the messengers sit, for that is what it says in the Rules of Procedure. When you work so well and when you say you have a surplus in your budget, and then why are you in charge? Why do you take credit when you're doing so well? The house where everything is not in debt. Just put it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15616	Mr. Milojic, you just broke the Rules of Procedure, because you were talking about a injury that she wasn't, and I listened to my colleague Ciric, and I didn't interrupt him for two minutes. Right? Now, since you know that the breach of the Rules of Procedure can be indicated by direct violation of the Rules of Procedure and for the sake of the public, let me tell you. Mr. Milojicic, wait for the other MP to give the word, and then jump out of the bench with the Rules of Procedure... (Radoslav Milojic: It is not true. )......................................................................................................... to present himself as a People's Messenger. That's right, because I was looking at the monitor while I was giving my word to Mr. Martinovic, you then cried out – Rules of Procedure and then your name came on here on the monitor. So, I think this is one of the most common abuses of the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare that in the voting day? Of course, it'll come out. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here you see, fine, educated, polite distraction, and just now their representative spoke of everyone having the right to speak. I guess that right doesn't apply to me. It's their right, their selective right to associate me with some strange totalitarian time, some dictatorships when someone was forbidden to advertise, say the Rules of Procedure, when they were chaired by someone from their party, and now...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15618	What member, colleague Risticevic, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15619	Hold on. When I want to point to Article 103's injury, I'm experiencing what I've been experiencing for days to turn my back on me. It's easy for me to turn my back, I'm harmless. I shouldn't have done that to them. With regard to Article 103, I am giving you the right to what you said earlier, but you have missed the opportunity to apply attitude 8 in practice and to the MP group that has abused, whose representative apparently abused this rule, misused a lot of what, but did not apply attitude 8 and took away that parliamentary group two minutes from the time of debate on this agenda point. Since it is united, I expect those two minutes to be taken away from them, according to what you yourself said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15620	I thank my colleague Rističević. You may be right that I should have done so, but here's colleague Aleksandar Martinovic said that someone has no moral right to talk about something, and the one who was told it twisted the words and said you forbid me to talk. That's why I don't want to take those two minutes. Do you understand me? Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? (No) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15621	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike some others who claim themselves to be the first enlightened European democratic Serbia, SNS MPs and MPs of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group and the United Peasant Party of Serbia do not turn their backs on anyone as they speak, you have the right to say and to express your political opinion. I just said because of the other people's MPs and because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that you are very familiar with the information that was presented at the Finance Committee this morning, only you are keeping them quiet, or you are trying to show the state of Serbian public finances worse than it is objectively. I just said this is about a loan taken at an interest rate of 2.2%. I said we were able to reduce public debt by the first four months of this year by 700m euros and that it was a loan originally taken in 2010 when the credit rating of the Republic of Serbia was much lower than it is now. I said that what is happening today in Smederevska Palanca, that we are helping the workers of the factory that was privatized in 2007, in the municipality where the president of the municipality robbed his own municipality, so the salaries of the workers in the municipal administration were paid through a football club that was declared magically public enterprises. So it all happened at a time when your party cheered and dressed this country. Now I'm telling you that in Serbia it's done differently. I'm telling you, the figures in Serbia are different. I'm telling you, public debt is falling. I'm telling you that loans are being taken in Serbia today on the international financial market under far more favourable conditions than they were in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the IMF was expelled from the Republic of Serbia in 2011 because you didn't want to have a monitoring of any international institutions over what you were doing in the area of public finances. and it is not true that the public debt is 15 billion euros, as you said, the public debt was much higher, except that you did not display it in the budget but rather are the debts of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, public enterprises, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, etc. You held on to which banks, you didn't show them in the budget, and that's why you didn't want to have the IMF monitoring, but you said after three weeks – thank you and goodbye. Those people are gone. The result is that the Republic of Serbia was facing bankruptcy in the summer of 2012. The bankruptcy saved them from measures, or Serbian citizens, saved the government of the Republic of Serbia's measures. I've been listening to you all day crying over the sad fate of a pensioner. We took those salaries, and we took the pensions. You guys don't understand one thing the people understood. Serbian citizens realized that these measures, however painful they were, were necessary to recover public finances. This has been shown by the results of the elections in 2014 and 2016, and this has also been shown by the results of the election for the President of the Republic of 2017. What you don't understand or don't understand, the people understand. All that we did was necessary, because if we hadn't done it today we couldn't help Gossa's workers in Smederjevska Palanca, because we have enough money in the budget. In your time "Gosa" has been privatized and workers have not received salaries since 2007, and then you, through your media, tried to present that the government of Aleksandr Vukic was responsible. It's not. We are reducing public debt, improving our credit rating, and for all that we can improve our electricity system and our rail system and our judiciary, so we can ultimately help this tortured Smederjev Palace, which was robbed more than in Turkish times.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15622	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15623	Mr. Vice President, I am currently calling for a violation of article 107. I must say that the afternoon leadership of your session, you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I believe you know, but I'll remind you of the position of 2nd Article 107. – the session is not allowed directly to address the MP, and in some other laws, counterpart Martinovic, and in the Constitution and in the laws, MPs are not yet allowed to use and abuse the National Assembly to judge and judge who is the criminal here, who robbed what. It's exactly the context in which we should talk today. On the state of justice, that politicians judge instead of judges, that the parliament abuses the role of MPs, that they judge and prosecute. Secondly, it's a shame to think of you, I don't know what you're thinking, that the head of the opposition party's parliamentary group is warning you what he should say and what he shouldn't say, what was the content of some session this morning. You may have an idea that you can get your colleagues out of your parliamentary group, but the space in your brain that allows you to influence and say what any party MP should say and what not is dangerously worrying. I, my colleague, ask you to take breaks when you take orders from the head of the parliamentary group that you should hold a session, to take care of what your job is, and that is respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-11-0.u15624	My fellow Members, I have listened very carefully to you and I ask you that everything you have told me you have influenced the work of your MP group so that she behaves as well, because I have listened from your group MPs as someone has taken pensions, stolen pensions, kidnapped salaries, fired workers. All judgments made, as you yourself have said. Now you expect me to ban a fellow MP who's not in your MP group? I don't think so. I can't think of anything. So, you influence your colleagues' work so they don't, and then I won't be in one of these situations with regard to violations of the Rules of Procedure. I just asked my fellow MPs to adhere to the agenda topics and I think it's the only way to proceed with this session in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Yes) You do, all right. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I have just been informed that there is no transmission by RTS, we are finishing today's work and continuing tomorrow at 1:00. Thank you.
