ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25615	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25616	Thank you very much. I have a few questions, which are of great importance to the Serbian public. The media released news yesterday or yesterday that the competent prosecutor's office has dropped a further investigation into the alleged assassination in Jajinci, an assassination of the then Serbian government president. My question is, why did the D.A. drop the investigation? What facts have been found to lead to the fact that there is no basis for continuing the investigation, and if the situation was such that there was no reason for further investigation, my question is – why has the Serbian public been deceived for a year or more about the assassination of the Prime Minister? It is a serious game, which brings no good to anyone, which speaks of instability in our country, which threatens not only high-functioners, but also all Serbian citizens and creates an ugly picture of our country. Of course, this reflects both investment and everything that represents life in one country. To make the situation worse, two months ago, in the town of Nis on two occasions, the first attempt was made and then succeeded, the burning of the cars of Chief of the Nis Police Administration, and tonight the car of Deputy Mayor Nis was set on fire in the same town. This is part of the story of security in which Serbian citizens live, about the increased level of fight against crime and all the fairy tales we hear every day, and we have these situations. Believe me, I'm 57 years old Nisley, and it's never happened that the chief of police started the car and never happened to any city clerk, let alone the deputy mayor, to turn the car on. My question to the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice – what does he know about these three cases? So, the Eggs and two burning cars in Nis. The second question was referred to the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, which refers to 235 million dinars transferred from the budget as non-purpose funds to the city of Belgrade a while ago -- which is the necessity, which led to an urgent need to transfer the amount of two million dollars or almost two million euros at this time to the city of Belgrade, which boasts that it is full of investment, budget revenues and that it has never been better? Is it the citizens of Serbia, who are otherwise people who have paid for Serbia's budget, all the citizens of Serbia, this circus that we have on the streets of Belgrade called New Year's Light and all those accompanying circus events that are happening? What is the effect of the circus that was brought to Belgrade last year again on the cost of Serbian citizens, where several hundred thousand new tourists have been promised to leave a few dozen or hundreds of million euros as a consequence of the city's kidnapping? A question for the Prime Minister -- five years ago, when the government changed in Serbia, SNS, SNS President Aleksandar Vukic and everyone around him, pledged to cut the number of agencies. There were 136 of them then, and there was a story that there should be no more than six, as far as I'm saying, there's Germany. What happened in the last five years? Has there been a serious reduction in the number of agencies, if yes, for how much? Is the shift under pressure from the Anti-Corruption Agency the other day, which was presented as her resignation, part of the Agency's abolition action? To remind you, the Agency's abolition is done by abolishing pointless agencies, not by setting up new ones, rather than by the agency's directors, who are asking about aunt's money from Canada and the illegal enriching of ministers, being forced out of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25617	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25618	Thank you. I have a few important questions, I hope we'll hear from each other and understand each other. The first question for the President of the Republic, but this time as President of the National Security Council, which today, if I am not mistaken, should be ambushed, and the question is – is it relevant and is this some kind of devaluation of the importance of this important body, that this body is meeting and scheduled on the basis of newspaper statements and interviews of individuals, individuals and politicians from the environment, and what is even worse, that it is scheduled on the basis of, if not false, but at least wrong or partially incorrectly transmitted statements, as it is now in the case of Mr Izetbegovic? I think it's embarrassing that important state body, that it's moving and, in some ways, alarming and alarming the public, just because someone or some media has partially surfaced some relatively insignificant statement. In this regard, when it comes to incorrect statements and the spread of false news or partly important news, the cause of panic, I have a question for the Ministry of Interior and Minister Stefanovic – does he feel responsible, does he feel some sort of personal responsibility because he has now, for more than a year, declared in connection with the weapons found in Jajinci, in a nearby house, or relatively close to the home of the then prime minister, or Prime Minister? I asked him here in a direct conversation, but now we also have an official resignation or prosecution announcement that there are no elements to initiate the procedure. So it turns out that all that day and night drama, the media drama, was some sort of delusion and spreading false news. This cannot be done under prevention and as a wake-up call and regular action, in order to prevent and protect top state officials, but I think it can be directly under public alert, spreading panic and, unfortunately, in addition to the media quoted here by the government representatives, the highest state officials, including Mr Stefanovic himself, participated. So the question is: does he have elements, does he think he has elements and personal responsibilities? In this regard, the second question for him, and regarding the leak of information in general from the investigation – is something done and what is done about mass widespread practice, which is practically regular, that from an investigation of leak information again into the verified media of close authorities, where bizarre and scandalous, in any case, are unlawfully placed details of investigations and processes, of how some are being arrested or who will be detained, processed, arrested and so on? So, I think it's also something that devalues the effort and work of otherwise many of the good honest departments of the interior that do their job, and in this way, perhaps because of a few individuals, the shadow and the leprosy falls on the entire ministry and on all the employees of the ministry, that they are in close contact with the tabloids, and often with criminal circles. Just to prevent that, that devastating impression, I'm asking -- what's been done, has there been an investigation, has there been a process, has something progressed during all these years in this regard of preventing such scandalous leaks of information? My last question concerns the Ministry of Construction and Traffic, and goes to the address of Minister Mihajlovic. I've already asked that question once, even some colleagues, but I haven't received a satisfactory answer, and I'd ask them to make an effort, as they sometimes do when they want to. As far as this highway is concerned, Nis-Medare-Pristina-Albania, which is now clearly and specifically and loudly asked, and I would like to be delivered to me by the shrub, elaborate, whatever, justification and investment, because there is a reasonable doubt that it is a single ad hoc politically motivated project, which was actually placed at one point by Eddie's shoulder and Mr. Vukic with German Chancellor Anegel Merkel, in order to get some points here and show how they co-operate regionally, and there is a suspicion that this road is either used for the transport and transfer of Albanian gastors or for the NATO-Pact troops...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25619	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25620	Thank you. A question for Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic – who signed a report on the sudden and enhanced functioning of foreign agents of some services and who is responsible within the BIA for such a report in the first place? I ask that I be provided with a data report and with a group that has found that Serbia is suddenly threatened by a huge number of foreign agents from various foreign services. If such a report does not exist, then I would ask the minister and everyone involved in creating a public campaign to know that what happens in diplomatic circles in Serbia with information that is very serious in serious countries has long been called a bugle, an empty soapy bubble. I can only ask that if any of the information spilling over from the daily newspapers and TV pages is made up because it entertains people who are paid from the budget to really care about Serbia's safety and security, I can only ask them to stop it. Otherwise, I demand that I be provided with a report on this and ask – who will be responsible within the BIA, against whom proceedings will be carried out because of someone's failure suddenly led to the enormous operation of foreign service agents. Second question Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, I ask and ask for a plan to be delivered to me and who within the ministry is in charge of the tasks of establishing the border between BiH and Serbia? One of the good ideas in the public that the president of Serbia had is – let's do these jobs independently of the EU or anyone who would make us do it. I know that from two months ago for December, a meeting in Belgrade is scheduled for top representatives of BiH and Serbia and that the agenda of these jobs, people who will work, should be established to establish the border between BiH and Serbia. The foreign ministry must play an active role there. That's why I'm asking the minister to deliver a work plan to me, because, by all we know about this border, these jobs can be completed in a relatively short time. With the hope that we will understand that the will of ministers in charge of bilateral or multilateral relations or the will of ministers in charge of security and security matters must be subject to the rule of law and control of MPs, not of self-will. That's why I repeat the warning. If any of the authorities entertains the empty verbal violence and people squawking at people, regardless of whether it's a huge threat from foreign agents to any service, which with ease information is shared with us by the minister, or about the headlines, where Serbia is sending from its media a message about non-existent statements and the spread of false news, so, if it amuses anyone and if it believes that the personal ratings that come to anyone's benefit, it is my duty to warn them all that they are deeply wrong. I know there's no way that immature people in politics can stop doing this, but there's a way that we MPs control what those who think of themselves as both statesmen and politicians, and they're far from each other, they have to do because that's what the Constitution and the laws say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25621	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25622	Thank you. The first question is for Minister of Health Zlatibor Lonchar. I don't know if he's familiar with the state of one of the country's largest health homes. Namely, in the House of Health "Dr Milutin Ivković" in Palilula, very strange things are happening, which I will now mention. In fact, we are told by citizens that after the arrival of the new leadership, there has been complete chaos and that they are equally harassed by senior doctors and their patients. What's going on? Doctors move past all the legal regulations, and for patients, it's the right enigma to find out where their doctor was moved and where their charts are. In time, they had to choose their doctor, they got an electronic health book, but this is not valid for the mentioned home of health. Namely, the director is moving doctors from e.g. Palilula medical facilities in the Padinska Skele and vice versa, without patients being informed about it at all. Now it's a new practice that if a patient finds a doctor, it doesn't mean that his chart was moved along with the doctor, but patients are harassed to sign out of one file and enroll in another. The patients' complaints respond that the electronic system does not support the migration of cardboard, which is not true. The prime minister keeps saying that we need digitisation and that it is imperative, and perhaps it should be informed that in the House of Health "Milutin Ivkovic" even paper is a mental noun. So the question for Minister Loncar is what will the Ministry do to prevent the abuse of doctors and patients by constantly moving from one home to another health care facility in Palilla? The question for the Ministry of Labour – is it true that more than 50 employees of the Post have been suspended because of the strike they have entered and that even the channel of communication through which they have been negotiated has been closed? If it is true that they have been suspended, please send us a reason why it was done. And the next question is for the Minister of Health, Zlatibor Lonchar. Vaccinations for the cause of drinking water are not part of the mandatory calendar of vaccination of children. Children in villages do not have control of water regularity in wells, i.e. there is no legal regulation for the control of water regularity in villages where there is no public water supply and no wells, nor public taps. What is the risk of an epidemic, and do all locals have the same rights to control the water's regularity or do they only have citizens where there is a public water supply? Can this lack of legal regulation endanger human health and to what extent? Also, we ask what are the protection measures? Next question for Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. In fact, our budget is very late, he was supposed to be in front of the MPs on November 1st, and today, as we know on November 16th, so more than two weeks later, the draft budget. The budget must be adopted by 15 December at the latest. Our question for the President of the Assembly – what does he do about it, does he appeal to the government to deliver the budget urgently or is it planned to repeat the very unpleasant situation we had last year, which is that the most important financial document in the country is delivered to us 24 hours before the session? In order for the citizens to know what this was about, the document last year had over 1,800 stations. We need time to study it, analyze it and prepare quality amendments, which, you'll agree, is impossible to do in less than 24 hours. Next question for the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. Today, it is as many as 115 days as the president has promised to provide the media with evidence of his claims about a statement given on TV Pink that media associations are allegedly media associations, then he said, false media organisations and political organisations that organised the protests were getting money for a campaign against him in the Savamal case. He even mentioned amounts ranging from 35m to 40m euros spent in an alleged campaign against him. So, I repeat, when can we expect evidence for these claims? Also, for thirty-two times, we ask Alexander Vukic when will the president of the state finally resign as president of the SNS, stop breaking the constitution and finally become president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Next question, SNS joined the coalition with Ramush Haradinaj in Kosovo, is the Haradinaj coalition announcing Kosovo's outcast from the constitution? The DJB MPs have so far asked this question to President Alexander Vukic. So many times he refused to answer the question. We ask him why the President of the Republic of Serbia violates his legal obligation and does not answer the questions of the MPs? We ask 25 times the question of the President of the Assembly Maji Gojković – when will the regular colleges in the National Assembly finally begin, when will we get a plan of work of the Assembly, an annual work plan, because we work for a year and a half without any preparation, without any order? Today, we do not know what laws we will have at the session but next week, and for a quality debate in this house, quality and adequate preparation are needed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25623	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25624	Thank you. The first question I would ask the Ministry of Health and the Post Office of Serbia, and the specific question – will it continue with joint co-operation, as was done in the previous period, where Serbia and the Ministry of Health, together with local self-government, co-operated with municipalities and made mobile mail, mobile health teams that are on the ground and who in certain local self-government go on the ground together and end jobs for the needs of rural citizens? This is an example of good practice done in a municipality where I come from, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is the municipality of Svrlig. It was also done in the municipality of Gagen Han, Bela Palanka and in a number of such municipalities that are undeveloped and demographically threatened and where it is very necessary to do so. I ask this question in such a way that I want it to continue, because I think that the Ministry of Health, the Post Office of Serbia, local self-government can work together in this way and get as close as possible to our people living in the country. It's a nursing population of people, like I said. That's one question. The second question is the Veterinary Chamber and the Veterinary Authority. Since we are witnesses in the previous period, those who are old memories, that in the 1990s in Serbia there was an Association of Veterinary, Veterinary Technicians and that this was later shut down, I ask the question of the Veterinary and Veterinary Administration – is there any possibility that with the support of these institutions we can help form a association of veterinary technicians? I'm a veterinary technician by profession, and I'm saying this precisely because a large number of people with a middle veterinary profession work in the field together with their veterinarians maintain animal health and thus save people's health. Will it be possible to form a veterinary association in the coming period that will be supported by the Veterinary Administration, or the Veterinary Chamber in Serbia? We know that in Serbia there is an association of pharmacists, a doctor's association, a association of medical technicians, so it would be good to prepare, to do and to form an association of veterinary technicians that will be active everywhere and thus protect the interests of all those on the ground, who are doing hard work, whether the sun, rain, snow, veterinarians and technicians are everywhere in the field. They really are people who mean a lot to our villages, our agriculture, because by protecting animal health, they protect and protect people's health. Another question to the Ministry of Economy, the National Employment Service and the Ministry without portfolios run by Mr. Krkobibic, and it is about cooperatives, since we all know that there is great activity in the formation of cooperatives, that a large number of local self-governments are initiating and working to form cooperatives. It is very important that these cooperatives can have the same rights and the question is: can cooperatives as legal entities use the funds that the Ministry of Employment-stimulating resources to expand their programme, as it is given to other legal entities? It is very important that these new cooperatives or old ones that work can use these means of hiring new people who will be in these cooperatives, to be stimulated in some way, as certain legal persons do where they are obtained for each new employee from 160 to 240 thousand dinars. On the other hand, do cooperatives as legal entities have the opportunity to use the Fund for Development from the Serbian Development Agency to expand production and thus help our agriculture, our villages? It would be good, and that is the same question – are these funds for those municipalities that are demographically threatened, mountain-mounted, undeveloped municipalities, can these funds in these municipalities be greater than other municipalities that are developed and have working conditions? I think that this way we would have a great chance of hiring an even greater number of people, young people, professional people, veterinarians, agricultural engineers, and in this way it would be really positive for our entire agriculture, for our entire economy to employ people and to work on the development of agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25625	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25626	We ask the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and the Labour Inspectorate. On 14 July 2017, there was an explosion of gunpowder at the state-owned company "Milan Blagojevic – Najnjanska" in the Lucani plant and two workers lost their lives at the time: Milojko Ignatović and Milomir Milivojevic. Given that the accident mentioned has not been clarified yet, we ask the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, the Inspectorate of the paper to deliver a report of insight that was carried out immediately after the explosion and to provide us with answers to the following questions. Did the labour inspectorate investigate the allegations that the director of this company signed his resignation under the care of three workers who worked on the rocket fuel plant, who confirmed that during the explosion the amount of gunpowder and barrels was greater than permitted? Since workers in the company are under inadequate conditions and labour regulations are being violated, protective suits are missing, powders and gunpowder are higher than allowed in barrels, workers do not have the right to vacation and free days and on 2 August there was another accident in which two workers were injured, we want to know whether the labour inspectorate and the competent ministry have examined the situation in terms of working conditions and safety at work in the given company? Is the procedure or measures imposed on responsible persons in the company? Is it true that 18 workers were killed in the last 20 years in that company? The interior ministry and the local self-government minister – why do cities and municipalities across Serbia, such as Mladenovac, bring local action plans to improve the position of migrants over the next five to ten years? Who plans to empty Serbian villages, barracks and resorts for children settled with migrants? Is it true that 620,000 migrants have sought asylum or expressed their intention to seek asylum in Serbia and that they are at risk of being returned from the EU countries to Serbia through a reading mission, and Serbia being created the largest asylum centre in Europe? Is that why 14 migrant centres have already been opened in our country? Another question for the interior ministry -- how many citizens of Serbia have reported their residence in Belgrade's territory over the past month? We are witnessing that yesterday, a busload of "Electrovodina" workers from Saturday went to Belgrade to apply and that every head of shift in Horgos and Kelebia at customs had an obligation to make their relatives and friends not registered in Belgrade and live, report, report and apply to the territory of Belgrade City, I presume for the next Belgrade elections. The fourth question to the president of the National Assembly – why are the three MPs of the Dvora expelled from the National Assembly session for 20 days for asking parliamentary questions? Is that supposed to say nothing in the National Assembly about corruption, crime at the top of power? The court therefore launched a "dverlix" site on which to read everything Maja Gojkovic censors to be heard in parliament. It has been two weeks since the president of the Dveri parliamentary group, Bosko Obradovic, has been banned from entering the assembly hall and attending the sessions, although there is no decision on the matter, nor has he been informed why it has been excluded. Why was there no exclusion of Boška Obradovic at yesterday's meeting of the Administrative Committee on the Agenda, which has no legal basis until it was confirmed by the Administrative Board? What if the Administrative Board refuses to confirm this exclusion? How will Bosko Obradović retroactively attend these sessions where he is currently banned from entry? Is Maja Gojkovic behind the criminal charges filed against the MPs Dvera Boško Obradović, Srdjan Noga and Marija Janjusevic, and is the next idea of Alexander Vukic and SNS to arrest the leaders of Dvori and disable their participation in the elections, because the rating of Dvori is growing every day because citizens recognize Dvori as the strongest assembly opposition of the Vučić authorities, so you must silence us in the National Assembly? Why is this poster “Vučić, brother, godfather, thieves” insulting the dignity of the National Assembly and President Vukic, if it is not clear here which Wolf, brother, godfather and thieves are thought of? Is that what Maja Gojkovic is accusing the president of Serbia, his brother and the godfathers of being thieves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25627	Thank you, colleague Kostic. Absolutely no one has the intention to silence you, on the contrary, you see that you have been able to read everything and to show the poster, if that was your intention. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25628	I thank the chairman. I'm asking the question of the Minister for Environmental Protection, Mr. Goran Trivan. First of all, I would like to welcome the decision of both the Government and the leadership of the Republic of Serbia which recognised a major problem and to address the problem after 15 years established a new ministry or a new portfolio, which is the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I'm just going to ask you to remind my colleague, Marijan Risticevic, that I could ask a parliamentary question. As far as the problem is concerned, I have to point out that the problem has been current for a long period of time and that the problem is constantly burdening not only Serbia, but also expanding the region and the entire globe. It's about environmental pollutants and very dangerous pollutants where both air and earth and drinking water and all the resources that are vital to the population are polluting. In this context, it is necessary to support the pledge, both Minister Goran Trivan and the Government of Serbia's commitment, to provide all possible conditions to protect both the renewable and non-renewable resources with which our country has predominantly. In this direction, I would particularly like to note that Mr Trivan pointed out that over 15 billion euros are needed over the next 20 years to achieve and achieve its full effects in order to achieve the concept of environmental protection. What delights Serbian citizens, and the predominantly citizens of Belgrade, is that the recovery of the existing dump in Vinca, where there is a decades-old problem of storage and recycling of waste, is put into priority. The Vinca dump is one of the largest dumps in this part of Europe, and many times Serbian citizens have been exposed to risks from this dump that have manifested themselves in different ways, creating a great danger, both through fires, occasional explosions, and of course pollutions that have been broadcast from this dump and endangering citizens. A few days or maybe a little more, a decision was made in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and based on that decision, the activities that the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been creding in the most positive way possible, which is that activities have started to solve this huge environmental problem. It was formed by a consortium and signed contract with the French company "Suez", then the Japanese company or consortium "Itoca", and the two companies will be contractors of the construction of a large regional dump in Vinca. In this direction, the minister stressed the fact that it would be one of the most modern dumps on the territory of the wider region, not only in Serbia. With that in mind, I would like to ask a question – what will be the essential contents of the operation of this dump, given that it is about, as announced by Mr Trivan, production so-called. Green energy? What does this concept of work mean, or the production of green energy? As far as the concept recognises the need for waste management to end in a functional sense through energy production, mostly heat energy, and to reach a final goal at some future stage, which means that Serbia no longer has waste. I also ask Mr Trivan the question – what will happen once, unfortunately, to an unfulfilled investment, when it comes to the Zlatibor district, which is to build a wastewater treatment plant, which should have been located not far from Užica in the periphery. It's about the city of Gorjani. Will the government of the Republic of Serbia succeed in providing funds and helping Užica town as a local self-government that is necessary, given that Užice is a city with perhaps the highest degree of pollution in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25629	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Before we proceed with a joint, principled and unified search, I ask one more time if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives, want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25630	Mr Milicevic, in accordance with Rule 287 of our Rules of Procedure, we need some information and some information, and I am absolutely sure that this information and information is needed by all MPs in the National Assembly, because other than the work they do in this Chamber, they also appear in other public places. Very often, citizens are able to address them with a question, because the simple public thinks that if they are a national MP, he knows everything about what's going on in our country. This audience’s interest is particularly expressed when in a diary or in a TV show they are in a position to see that some ceremony is organized for opening some works or some ceremony for the completion of certain works, so whether it is streets, roads, underpasses, overpasses, bridges, highways, clinical centres, buildings. It's just a distraction to the public. Of course, everyone loves it when some object is finished, because they immediately count that there is some functional benefit, that the object can be used, that the path can be used. I am absolutely sure that no one in this country is against Serbia building, building, building, building, renovating, making it better and better, so that it can be faster and stronger on the roads. It's just that civilization requires these things to happen. I need information and information, first of all, from the Ministry of Transport and Construction. Why? A little bit, a little bit, so we see a picture of a construction site opening up. However, we all have to respect the Constitution and the laws. Does this construction site have a building permit? Anyone passing a construction site can see that board they're writing the basic data on under the law. Now, whether it's true or not, it's a question. When it's finished, apparently, some object or some stock, it's reorganized some solemn opening, but we never get an answer to the question of whether there's a valid permit. Let's just say, if there's a section of the road opening up, so that stock doesn't have a license, so God forbid, something happens, someone needs to be held accountable. Just to remind you, according to the regulations of the Republic of Serbia on roads, if you're driving along a road, you get in a car in a hole, the damage should be compensated by a competent state body, or a public company. How can a person accomplish this unless he knows whether there is a valid permit or not? Has the technical reception been made, has the technical reception not been completed? Unfortunately, many construction firms that built Serbia, whole blocks, the entire settlements no longer exist, for 10, 15 years. That went bankrupt. Some new companies showed up. When you look at New Belgrade, there is almost no firm that has made New Belgrade, and the facilities are still standing. There is a situation happening today to complete an object and after some time it is determined that, whether it has or does not have the necessary permission, that this object is not in that function, it is not the performance that it should be. We don't know if it's covered by a guaranteed deadline. Isn't it covered by a warranty? We have a paradoxical situation to organize a celebration, a ceremony on some side of the road. The top state officials come to the opening and after ten days, newspaper texts start -- a new stock, and some new holes are opening up. Well, then we're not responsible, and this one's responsible, and this one's not responsible. We need to get that information. Do these facilities that open or where construction starts have technical documentation, have a building permit? Do these facilities, which end solemnly, put on the market, have they used permission?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25631	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25632	Respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, I am using my right to ask the first question to justice ministers and police, Nebojsa Stefanovic and Nelli Kuburovic. My first question is very simple, and the reasons are extremely large and extremely important for the town of Sabac, and it is said – when will the mayor of the town of Sapca, Nebojsa Zelenović, be brought to justice because of a number of irregularities and abuses in work? In a pre-election campaign for parliamentary and local elections in 2016, the party activists Together for Serbia, Gavrilović Dragan, from Varna, otherwise Together for Serbia led by Dusan Petrovic, bought votes for the pre-election campaign for Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic, amounting to between five and 11 thousand dinars, depending on the size of the household, or the number of members of the household. For his purchase, he admitted and signed a statement at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac confirming that the purchase had taken place and that he had bought the votes, and there was no reason, no excuse for that. I ask the question to Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, when and why there are no orders to buy votes before justice, and I expect that this will be done in the coming period, because we all know very well who bought the votes and, according to this, whoever buys the votes should get the fine they deserve. The second question is also about Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic, and I remind you that the DRI in its 2015 budget control has identified a number of irregularities. Among other things, criminal charges have already been filed at the basic court in Šapec for the Director of the Roads Directorate and the Director of the JP Building Land Fund in Šapec. I ask the question of the justice minister, when will the mayor of Nebojsa Zelenovic be prosecuted, that is, when will his case be in the basic court in Sapac? I note, the reasons for this are enormous, and among other things, the DRI findings, that they have abused and damaged the city's budget for five million dinars, I am talking about a budget of five million euros, I am talking about the 2015 budget. I quote: "In the report, the DRI city of Sabac incorrectly assumed commitments and made expenditures of 590 million 928 thousand dinars and 44 thousand 113 euros. “ The end of the quote. So five million euros has been spent, and there are no legitimate and valid papers for it, or spent and not in accordance with the law. Among other things, the budget has been misused in different positions and this spending is greater than approved, according to the appraisals, amounting to 297 million dinars. Obligations which do not have legal basis in accordance with the applicable rules of 86 million dinars. Obligations without valid and credible documentation, 89 million dinars. Obligations without a contract or other written act, 31 million. Obligations without public procurement and without respect for legal procedures in public procurement procedures, amounting to 42m and 44000 euros, etc. Abuses never end. I ask the question of Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, when will an investigation be carried out to determine who deals are concluded with without public procurement and without respect for legal procedures? Who has been paid millions of dollars without valid credible documentation? To whom is the million fines given without a contract or another written act? It is the precise data provided by the DRI, and accordingly should be set according to the given data. On behalf of the citizens of Serbia, and on behalf of, above all, of the citizens of Sapca, I am asking the DRI question, is it in the plan to control the budget of the city's spending for the year 2016, given that 2015 was not an election year, so 5m euros in non-intentional budget spending were made? We can only assume what the cost is for 2016. I hope that the face of justice will be brought to justice by all those who have earned it and who have sinned against the justice of Capco and their citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25633	Thank you, colleague Birmanchevic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milisav Petronijevic, Miletic Mihajlovic, Vladimir Djuric and Nada Lazic. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Dr Disan Vujović, Minister of Finance, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić, Dr. Meho Mahmutović, Prof. Dr. Ferenc Vicko and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Djukić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Daniel Urosević, Assistant Minister of Health, Dragan Vujic and Sladjana Đukić, Deputy Assistant Minister of Health, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt in the Ministry of Finance, Dragan Ratković, Head of the Public Debt Department of the Ministry of Finance, Lidija Bašić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Health and Mira Kontic, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Health. We're continuing with a list of speakers. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25634	Thank you. A few words about Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, which also figures in this law. In this year and a half, as far as we are in the National Assembly, in this 11th session, almost no single law has come to the Assembly without mentioning the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and not being assigned any powers and jobs. It's mostly business to run some registers, some records, some licensing of both the housing law and the Law on the National Public Administration Agency and these educational laws that were in the previous session, and here in these health laws. Since 2012, this ruling majority of Serbia's Chamber of Commerce has been creating a supernatural being, slowly transferring all administrative tasks that are practically to be carried out by the state administration. That's why it's called the state administration. She's been paid by citizens through taxes to do the work of the state administration. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce should deal with employers' problems, not with the work of the state administration, and also with the additional cost of taxpayers, as employers have been forced, whether or not, to be members of the chamber and to pay for the racket, i.e. a cobayage of some membership that, as we can see, needs to do what practically a state administration should do, run a lot of registers, and deal with all kinds of records. Therefore, I urge you once again to withdraw the law, to throw out Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. Another reason to withdraw the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25635	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25636	The Chamber of Commerce doesn't charge anything, absolutely. For what reason? It is only because of the registration included in this story, because it already has part of the register and has its own groups of all these manufacturers. So zero dinars cost, zero dinars are paid, just gonna help with the register. There's nothing else, no extra cost, nothing. Since we already have one base, that's just the point of using it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25637	Thank you. My colleague Stamenkovic, you have no basis. All you got was an answer to the question you asked. (Branka Stamenkovic: Very short. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25638	Thank you. Minister, I'm asking if the sky is blue, and you're answering me - the tomatoes at the market are cheap. So I didn't say it would cost the Ministry something. The work of the Chamber of Commerce is financed from membership fees forced employers to be members of the Chamber of Commerce. As you know, it's no longer an option -- I can or can't be a member, but you have to be a member of the Chamber of Commerce. And the same employers through taxes pay the state administration to do the work of the state administration. Now, the state administration instead of doing these jobs, it transfers them to the Chamber of Commerce, and the Chamber of Commerce, in order not to take money out of the taxpayers' budget, is prescribed that everyone has to be a member, and practically has an extra charge that a sausage is not tax, but is a racket. Do you understand me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25639	The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25640	I think you're now talking about the Chamber of Commerce Act that exists, and some rules in the Chamber of Commerce. You're asking me to answer what's going on in the Chamber of Commerce. I don't know, I don't need to know, I don't need to know, and that's not the part that the Ministry of Health has to deal with. We're here because of these laws and people's health, and whoever pays and pays for it certainly exists, but you have to ask these people who are involved in this process. There must be some reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25641	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25642	Article 107. - dignity. Mr. Chairman, let me tell you right now, I'm not asking you to vote on this, but there are some things you really need to react to. When you use expressions and accusations like "reset", I've heard it well, it's been repeated even twice, it wasn't enough for someone to be bold once, but it has to be repeatedly, I think it should be responded to. If there's nothing else, then it's because this must be a serious place. It may not be used to people who are used to playing and singing here, but to us who know what the work of the MP means, it is, so that we don't let things be accused of the Chamber of Commerce, of accusing the other ministry, and now that law is disputed that has nothing to do with today's debate, that someone would take a little picture, so he mounted himself on the website of his organization, which is no longer even God knows what, whether the association of citizens or a group of citizens. Sometimes they're a bit of a movement, sometimes they betray themselves falsely as a party, but it doesn't matter what they are. That kind of need to meet in this way makes no sense. Not only because of this place, but I think it's an insult, and now some common sense, that we listen to it from people who are used to the racket, who pay their Sasa Radulovic's racket for the post of MPs through those services of various private companies that exist until the funds are laid down, and these campaign funds received for participation in the election in accounts, and then suddenly, overnight, the trails disappear, someone puts the key in the lock, and someone is issued as poor people's MPs, with no one in the world at all. So that we don't spend on such topics and people like that, I suggest that we do this a little bit more respect for this book of Rules, and we don't have to vote, just to take a little bit more care. You're going to go through what they're doing and how they're doing, and the way they've been going so far, and we're going back to serious, important laws, and we're doing this the only right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25643	I agree with you that we need to get back to the serious subject, which is a debate on legal proposals. I understand that you do not want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is, in order of the registered MPs, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25644	Thank you, Chairman. To be honest, I don't know why you gave your word to the previous speaker again just before the replica. So it's obvious that she missed both the subject and the law and the institution, but I'd like to ask you not to do it in the future, if you can. Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief in my presentation. Although I don't come from a health profession, I followed very closely the course of yesterday's debate under these laws. From everything we've heard from you, Mr. Minister, but also from other colleagues, it's a general impression, and it's clear to all of us yesterday, but here today, we haven't heard a single fundamental complaint about these bill proposals, and that's what's good. We from the Serbian Progressive Party strongly support you, ministers, as well as these bill proposals, but I would also like to point out that yesterday's debate was largely constructive, as these laws deserve, with several exceptions, with several bounces, mainly from the old members of the former regime's parties which, we see today, are not even in the hall. It is symptomatic that health problems, the state of the health system, come precisely from those who are largely responsible for everything that is bad in Serbia's health system today. You know, someone's been in power for 12 years, for 12 years, and in 12 years, he's got all the power in the country, and in those 12 years, he's got all the things that could have been ruined in the country, so, from economy to economy, to education, to the defence system, to health, to culture, to everything they've touched and destroyed. Then after 12 years, the citizens punish them. They go well into opposition and then after a while they hold sermons here, they honor us with some sort of guilt about what's wrong, and then they impose a logical question as to who stopped them, what prevented them, that all the smart and epochal solutions they're proposing today, to apply them as they exercised power, and they were 12 years old to apply all those smart solutions they're talking about today. We, Mr. Chairman, are also from our authorised representative of the SNS, Mr. Laketić, yesterday heard everything that is good that this law adopts. So all the benefits, all the positive effects these laws will produce. In order not to repeat all that are respected colleagues, especially those colleagues who normally come from the health profession, I will finish my presentation with one sentence, I would just like to say that I belong to a group of SNS MPs who have proposed several amendments, but technical amendments to this bill, it is 13 amendments, indeed, technically, that amendments aim to correct the text of the law and I hope that these amendments will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25645	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Since you asked me in the opening statement of the question. Imagine if I had not allowed my colleague Stamenkovic to explain his further question, we would have had that assumption again, that again it would have been the thesis that one of the presidents wanted to prevent the opposition from talking about the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is another confirmation that absolutely none of the chairmans have the intention of disabling the opposition from speaking, on the contrary, you can see that we are allowing them to further explain a question that is not properly understood. Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25646	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen, when we consider that Serbian health care by 2012, did not even meet the basic criteria for evaluation within the European Health Consumer Index, and was then assessed by the worst estimate, given that by 2012, the competent minister went abroad for treatment, thus sending a message to his fellow citizens that he did not believe in a system that runs. If we take into account all the information we heard yesterday from my distinguished colleague, Mark Atlagic, who is involved in malfeasance and in the procurement of equipment and resources and medicines, and also in the abuse of positions, I would just like to point out that Serbian citizens should be clear why SNS MPs, but here, on the second day, are very proud of the results of the Ministry of Health both in this government and in the previous one. What needs to be pointed out is that there is great progress both in modernization and in every sense of progress in the health system. It should be pointed out that over the past two to three years, about 2,000 young doctors have been admitted, about 2,000 more medical workers, about 4,000 specializations have been approved, waiting lists have been shortened, waiting lists have been removed for radiation, we have heard this by obtaining four linear accelerators, it is done to introduce an electronic recipe, so that all of this will shorten and simplify the procedures in health care, which, of course, will benefit citizens, not individuals as before. What is very important and what I would particularly point out, which is the work of prevention, and we are all witnesses, as well as citizens of Serbia, that preventive checks are being done throughout Serbia in all homes of health and hospitals, where blood checks, ECG, blood sugar measurements, pressure measurements are being done. It's a very commendable approach, because that way we can prevent our population from suffering from very common diseases, so we can see them in time. What is before us today is a very important law, a law that will provide money for the promotion and modernisation of four Clinical Centres in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade and Kragujevac. What I would particularly point out and what my colleagues talked about the previous day, and today they will probably talk about their local self-governments, i.e. about their environments, which is that this health care really works on a balanced regional development of health care. I'm simply going to point out a few important things that I think I should know, and it's about the Zlatibor County that the competent health ministry has given support and given a chance to, in addition to the three existing centres that are highly developed, cardiosurgery, give us a simple chance to establish it in Uzic as well. Užice is the centre of a large district, the Zlatibor County and what is very important is this cardio-surgery centre that if we succeed, it will be a lot of envy from us, if we succeed in establishing it will mean to all citizens of the Zlatibor County but also to the people of the border areas that are gravitating towards the Zlatibor County, and the Zlatibor County is as you know the largest district in Serbia. We also count on him to provide needs for residents of Republika Srpska, the border area of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the people of Montenegro. First of all, because of the public, I want to say one very important piece of information and I simply appeal to regular checks, that every other cause of the death in Serbia is precisely cardiovascular disease. Therefore, we should not, or need to talk about the importance of the existence of an angelic fat and cardiosurgery. Angio hall exists in Užica and has been working very well for the last five to six years, about four thousand patients have gone through it, but you all know that unfortunately many procedures end with the need for cardiosurgery intervention. Some interventions are so urgent that we can't even get to the nearest center in Kragujevac, in that sense there are patients at risk. So, there's been a program since October 15th that's been launched thanks to the Ministry of Health's support. Thanks to the cardio surgeons of Užica and thanks to the largest names of the Serbian heart surgeons who really give all their strength and motivation and all their expertise to train a small heart surgeon's department within the Užička hospital. Also, Užice would have had, and 45 operations have been done so far, and it is planned to be 150 operations a year, and that would be some minimum that could satisfy the existence of such a cardiosurgery. Which is very significant, which is that there is also Chigota, as a special hospital where these patients could be rehabilitated later, which could also be technically and humanely respected. Speaking of Chigota, just a few words. This is one of the bright points of our health center, health system and great gratitude we owe it to the Ministry of Health, we owe it to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we owe it to the ionizing radiation protection agency, because, with your help, the Zlatibor County, or the Chigota Special Hospital, will soon obtain the unique diagnostic device of the latest generation of so-called. Gamma camera. You could probably explain much better to us what it is or you could simply explain to the citizens when the time comes, but in any case, I want to say why I'm talking about this whole thing, about the Goldibor County, because I want to point out that one system that's been torn down, you've raised to very firm feet. Because this system is developing evenly, developing in each segment, developing in all parts of Serbia, and therefore SNS will always support the proposals of your laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25647	The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25648	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Ladies and Gentlemen People's MPs, we began a discussion yesterday on two very important laws in the field of health care, a proposal for a law on medical means and a proposal for a law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in Health. Before discussing the proposed laws, I would just refer to the state of our health. In fact, we are witnessing that Serbian health has been destroyed for many years and that in 2012, we found a disastrous situation. A catastrophic situation not only in the state of Serbia but also in Serbian healthcare which has indeed been on an invisible level. Because of the poorly-led policy, primarily between 2000 and 2012 our health care was at the lowest branches, so it was declared in 2014. Fortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia, led then by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, now President of the Republic of Serbia, managed to stabilise not only the situation in Serbian health but also the state of the country, to save the country of bankruptcy that was imminent and to reduce the fiscal deficit and implement reforms that the state has exited from recession. The responsible policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health, of course headed by Mr. Minister Loncar, has stopped the decline of Serbian health, and we have received reform laws that we have advanced in the European Consumer Index and have made progress in three key areas. Patients' rights, health care availability and treatment outcomes. It is also commendable that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent health ministry, in the previous period, approved a large number of places of employment for staff over two thousand, both doctors and other medical staff, thus creating conditions for the employment of young doctors. I would disagree with yesterday's debate by colleagues, usually from opposition parties, who say doctors are learning much German. That's not true. I am a doctor at the Kruševac hospital and my colleagues are proud of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health, how much effort it makes to make the health system better, to make the conditions as good as possible, both in Kruševec, both in the Rasin County and throughout our beautiful Serbia. Otherwise, because of inherited problems, we had to change many laws, we had to adopt an emergency procedure, because some previous DOS-manley authorities, the regimes tried to do what was right for them, and not in the interest of the citizens, so we had a problem facing certain specialities missing, so we urgently passed some laws so that we would have to solve these staff issues as we know and know how. Some ministers from 2000 to 2012 thought of other things, but did not face those problems that were present both at the hospital in Krusevec and across the country. But fortunately, I say in 2012, there was a change in government and citizens clearly said no politics, and we had the opportunity to make sure last year that they clearly supported our presidential candidate and thus showed that this policy has no alternative and that they want exactly SNS and Mr. Vukic to lead them further into a better future. When it comes to these laws that are on the agenda yesterday and today, the proposal for a law on medical means, it is very important to adopt this law, primarily because it regulates the health system in the areas of health and is in line with the rules applicable in the EU. Namely, this law will enforce the separation of regulations governing medicinal products, which is very important, but the separation of medical resources used in human medicine, from medical remedies used in veterinary medicine. As doctors, we are truly aware of how important and important it is, and indeed full support from all of us has the Ministry of Health. This law also regulates provisions relating to clinical trials of medical means, which encourages, not only the development of medical science, but also enables healthcare professionals to have scientific achievements available, but all of these changes are important for our patients. This will provide patients with modern and innovative therapy, and our concern for all of us is primarily about patients and our citizens, which we have shown over the past few years. This law also creates favourable conditions, favourable conditions for domestic medical producers, as well as for the placement of their products in the countries of Europe, as well as other countries of the world. This also improves the economy of our republic in general, which is very important, and thus shows that all our ministries work together and work for the benefit of citizens. I believe that this law will support, not only the ruling coalition MPs, but I hope that these colleagues today also do not see anything in the hall, they are only there when it is necessary to propose an addition to the agenda, that they are allegedly showing some care for the citizens, and how much care they have shown for the citizens in the period until 2012, and the citizens of Serbia are clear to them then, but also in all elections they show that they do not want them and slowly send them to the political dump where they belong. When it comes to the second law, I would say that this law supplementing the Law on Records in the field of health and documentation. The law was passed about three years ago and began to apply on 1 January of this year, but it was necessary to supplement the previous law, because in the meantime the ISIS was established and given the indetermination in the work relating to the handler, ie, the Ministry of Health has decided to do so and the proposed additions will allow the precise identification of the legal person, or responsible for the smooth work of health institutions and systems in general based on the principles of electronic business, but the need for data security in relation to possible sanctions for non-compliance under the same procedure will also be established. This law also affects the work of the Commissioners, by making matters easier from the authority of the Commissioner, although when we mention the Trustee, I immediately feel that it is a truly independent institution, because we are increasingly able to see that this particular trustee, who is supposed to represent that institution, fully independent, increasingly with his lobbys and tweets and comments, shows that this is not an independent institution at all and that as some false Citizens' Protector from several months ago who was involved in politics from where he worked and received a large salary, so the current Trustee, instead of doing his job and that he represents an independent institution he runs, he is increasingly commenting on some outflows and some personal frustrations. This may not be the place to talk about his work, but I think we should consider that too, given that Serbian citizens are paying him that and how they pay him. I think it's enough that I don't talk about these laws anymore, because my colleagues have mentioned enough and that we're all aware of how important it is to bring and support each other, but there's something else I'd like to point out from this place. In fact, at the meeting of the Health Committee a few days ago, before discussing these laws, we also touched on the current topics, the topics of vaccination, and I gave one suggestion about it, and I think that as doctors and as all health workers in this room, all fellow MPs and the Ministry of Health should take a clear and common position and condemn the antivaccinal lobby. We are all aware of the importance of vaccination for protection, above all our society and our children, because children are our future. As a mother of two, I think it is necessary to vaccinate and we must not allow certain public figures, whether they are starlets or not, to be above the medical profession that has been trained, trained, taught, taught about the importance of vaccinations, that now someone convinces the public that vaccines are harmful. I've vaccinated both children, and we can't really talk about some diseases being caused by children receiving an MMR vaccine or any other vaccine. So I think we should take a clear common position and condemn these antivaccinal lobbies. As far as these laws are concerned, the SNS will vote and support and full support you have ministers to continue this path you started and in some subsequent elections we will not get 56% support, we will get over 70%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25649	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25650	Ladies and gentlemen, honored present, all three medical laws ahead of us are a sort of step towards quality, improving health care services in the medical sector. We could see from this debate that, despite the efforts to make objections, there were not some, God knows serious remarks, so the MPs of the Bosniak Democratic Community in the voting day will support these laws. The intention of this Parliament is obvious, which is because of the EU's insistence on European integration, which is because of our sincere intention, we will have good laws, but it is a much bigger problem to implement these laws and to achieve quality in line with the objective, intention and provisions of these laws. In this respect, I will refer to those provisions relating to clinical trials, sterilisation, inspection and the ethical committee, from one specific angle, with the intention of suggesting to the Ministry, the Government and the proposing of future sublegal acts relating to these laws, as well as to future laws, above all to the Drug Act. In fact, it is very important for the government to understand and accept the importance of adopting Halal standards in the medical sector, i.e. health services. So it's a standard that primarily applies to members of Islam, but also to all those who want a higher standard in terms of these ethical and hygiene standards. I certainly don't have a requirement on this law, but I think sublaws can partially correct this deficit, because it's very important that a large number of members of Islam in this country can easily have a medical service in accordance with the halal standard of Islamic regulations. I also find it very important, especially when it comes to medicines, which will be the topic, or the next drug law, that we have a standard, a halal standard in medicines, or at least clearly indicated which drugs meet that standard. It is very important for Muslims in Serbia, but also very important for a vast Muslim market above a billion inhabitants. About hygiene, or sterilization. It's one of the most important moments in medical service. I will agree with yesterday's estimates of colleagues from Novi Pazar, who said that the government, or colleagues, of two colleagues from Novi Pazar, said that the government, along with donors from the United Arab Emirates, has invested very much in investing health facilities in Novi Pazar, which is a major step, although our expectations and confidence that these investments are very important to end and with the establishment of a clinical centre in Novi Pazar, because all four clinical in Serbia are concentrated in the north and east of Serbia. So we have a huge space on that side uncovered. But what I'm asking is that, through inspection supervision, the Ethics Committee's activity, it puts focus on the medical staff's behaviour on areas outside Belgrade, because the patients' rivers are moving from the inside of southern parts towards Belgrade. When you ask them why. One aspect is expertise, but another aspect is humanity in the behavior of individuals in medical staff, I won't tell everyone. There are individuals who really spoil the reputation of those honest ones who really aren't. This can be resolved by supervision, inspection and supervision of the Ethics Committee. And what I can't agree with, and said counterpart Bačevac is his desire for Serbia to have a centrifugal position in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25651	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25652	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The old saying says: a healthy man has a thousand desires, and only one sick to heal. Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut said, the first and most natural condition of man's progress is health. It contains the beauty, strength, longevity of each individual, and so are the human communities, the states and all mankind. So, human health is the priority of all priorities and the unimpaired goal of every organised society, because of the health of the population, the investment of the state in health and the improvement of the health system depends on the overall progress of society. In this context, I also observe all efforts made by the Government and the Minister of Health to round up the legal framework in the field of health care. And the adoption of a new medical law, which we are discussing today, aims to fully regulate and secure a system in this area of our country's health policy, which will be fully in line with the relevant EU regulations in the area of medical resources. The harmonisation of our legislation with EU regulations has been initiated by the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, and as the EU level has been subject to the separation of regulations governing medical resources from the regulations governing medicines, so do we. Since the adoption of the applicable law, it has been time for medical professionals to gradually adapt their business activities to EU requirements and standards. First of all, as regards safety and quality, technical standards and the quality of medical resources are of invaluable importance for the implementation of medical procedures in human medicine. And of them, as well as of medicines, and especially of medical professionals depends on the health or quality of treatment of citizens. This law applies only to medical remedies, which are used in human medicine. The medical means used in veterinary medicine are not uniformly arranged, at EU level, but are left to the national legislation of EU Member States. Therefore, medical remedies for veterinary medicine are regulated by separate regulations. This law also amends the provisions governing clinical trials of medical means, i.e. the deadlines and procedures for their approval, and the incentive conditions for the implementation of a number of clinical trials. This encourages the development of medical sciences, enables health and scientific workers to be more accessible to the latest scientific achievements in medicine, and thus enables patients to have access to modern and innovative therapeutic procedures, which should reduce recovery and healing periods. The Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices will approve clinical trials, medical resources will be done by forming a professional nine-member commission for these tasks, using the necessary administrative capacity to achieve this authorisation. This should speed up procedures and as the ultimate outcome, improve the quality of medical resources on our market. By harmonising this regulation with European regulations, conditions are also created for domestic medical producers for the placement of their products in EU countries, as well as conditions for the development of Serbia's economy in general. At the same time, it makes it impossible to enter non-quality and per user of insecure medical resources, both in the market and in the health institutions of the Republic of Serbia. This reduces the possibility of the entry of counterfeit medical resources from other markets on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which could endanger medical procedures and thus the health of our citizens. Namely, the medical means imported from the EU market, when imported into the Republic of Serbia, will have to follow an appropriate statement of compliance with technical requirements, which is issued by the manufacturer or the notified body under this law. Also, a conformity assessment will be required for medical resources coming from countries that are not members of the European Union. This is very important because the largest number of complaints are suspected of the quality of imported medical resources from countries outside the European Union, and even 70% of the suspected suspects reported have been withdrawn from our market. What has particularly impressed me as a doctor and humanist has been the provision of Article 30, which gives absolute priority to the protection of the rights, safety and interest of subjects in conducting a clinical study in relation to the contribution of science. The clinical trial must be planned and conducted in such a way as to minimise pain, discomfort, fear and any other predictable risk to the health of subjects, who at any time may withdraw their written consent and give up participation in the clinical trial. On the other hand, in order to protect the health and safety of subjects, the Agency may decide to suspend the authorisation to conduct a clinical trial. When it comes to the second bill of law, which concerns health records, I would point out only a few essential things. This proposal is the result of the co-operation of the Ministry of Health, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the Institute of Public Health of Serbia "Dr Milan Jovan Batut" and the Commissioner for Public Information, which refers to the protection of patient identity data, i.e. his health status, diagnosis, procedures and other health data. The Health Documentation and Records Act in the area of health, which was adopted in 2014, established what an integrated health information system, so-called The ISIS, i.e. the Information Health-statistic System, an information system that networkes information systems of health insurance organisations, information systems of health institutions, private practices and other legal entities. The ISIS itself was not established everywhere at the time of the adoption of this law, so that there were no immediate discrepancies concerning the management of the personal data of health insurance companies. At the moment of the establishment of the ISIS, the trustee pointed to this indeterminateness, and in line with that remark, this bill was made up. Thus, the law will now allow for the precise identification of a legal person, who will be responsible for the smooth work of health institutions and health systems in general, based on the principles of electronic business, i.e. to ensure adequate and responsible protection of personal data. We must not forget the sensitivity of patient health data for a moment. Dear Ministers, I am taking the opportunity to commend the efforts of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the last five years to improve the health system, as well as to ask the question – will the standards in human health policy, i.e. the number of doctors in primary health care, change? Because we notice that the nation is getting older and sicker and needs more visits to the doctor, which increases the work of the doctor and leaves less time for the doctor to commit himself to the patient? In light of all the above, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the draft laws we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25653	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Comrade Miletic, the time remaining for your MP's club is one minute and 32 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25654	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrljig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the USS and I was elected on the SNS list. Now, for a short time, I will give my support to all these bill proposals, but I will focus on the proposal to support our Assembly in financial support to receive 50m euros for the completion of four clinical centres. I will give the most support for building a clinical centre, normally, and others, because Nis as the centre of Southeast Serbia is a place of support, helps a large number of people who are incapacitated. The Nis clinic has over 3,000 workers. A new clinical centre in Nis will provide even more support with quality material, with people who want to work there, and also give the possibility of people who have gone to “Prince Selo”, people who have had lung problems, where they have been a center for oncology. So, with this investment, we're going to finish a clinical center in Nis and it's going to be a big and good thing for all people living in southeastern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25655	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25656	If you'll excuse me, I would like to conclude by congratulating everyone who celebrates today's St George's Day, with a desire for all elections, for the Serb people to cope with all the troubles affecting our country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25657	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25658	In 2014, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, supported the adoption of the Health Documentation and Records Act in the area of health care. So we also support the additions of this law, which began to apply on January 1st of this year. The law established what an integrated health information system does, but the ISIS itself was not established at the time of the law's adoption. Integrated health information system, art. 44, 45 and 46. The law finally gave legal basis for informing and considering the real state and need of the system of health documentation and records and establishing safe and efficient electronic services in the RFZO. The establishment of the ISIS was necessary, as my colleague said earlier, to determine precisely the legal person responsible and the obligations of that person in the event of a breach of data security, as well as sanctions for non-compliance with those obligations. The misunderstandings that existed about who handles and is responsible for information from the Information Health System, and these supplements as a data handler, which makes up the Integrated Health Information System of the Republic of Serbia, are determined by the Public Health Institute, established in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Health records and records are the basis for the functioning of the Integrated Health Information System. The data from the patient's medical records are particularly sensitive personality data. The proposed legal provisions further provide for a higher level of protection of personal data, as it lays down responsibility for various abuses, destruction, loss, unauthorized change or access, and sanctions for non-compliance with obligations are also prescribed. The collection and processing of patient personality data shall be carried out in a way that ensures the exercise of the right to privacy and the right to confidentiality of patient identity data, in accordance with the law governing the rights of patients and the law governing the protection of personal data. The adoption of these supplements enables compliance with the rules governing the protection of personal data, which is in the interest of all citizens and certainly necessary for the coordination of the legal system. Given that health care as an organised and comprehensive activity of society has the basic objective of achieving the highest possible level of preservation of citizens' health, as well as protection of personal data, which should, in essence, contribute to this addition of the law, as well as the desire for the Law on Health Documentation and Records in the field of health to the full extent of its purpose, the SPS will support the adoption of the amendments to the law in the day of voting. Finally, what I would like to repeat, as our authorised representative, Daniel Stojadinovic, said when she spoke, we support you, ministers, in your efforts to preserve state health. Our patients, when they can, go to private offices for the reasons of the waiting list, but also there are forced to wait, and God forbid, when they get sick and have serious health problems, then they just want to come to state institutions. High-quality healthcare is provided in our state health institutions and I hope the time will come for us to be able to pay adequately and to have enough in the budget for our medical staff, both for doctors and nurses and for auxiliary staff. Thank you again for this effort.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25659	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25660	On behalf of our parliamentary group, I must say that, regardless of course we are the opposition, we do not have any objections or any major objections to these first two proposed laws, especially the first one. It's not my thing, of course, but we've talked to colleagues who understand that matter and all the more and more say that it's on the line of what it takes. I don't know if it's pleasant or uncomfortable that the second time you've been here, you're visiting this assembly with the laws. It's generally good and that's how it should be with laws that can't be criticised. The remarks of our parliamentary group and the reasons why we will not vote, it also cited the loan, regardless of the argument that you made in the meantime. I just can't vote for loans, especially loans that last a quarter of a century, and that will end when, probably, none of us, most of us, will be alive anymore. In particular, this is not logically too much, given the constant emphasis on data that the state register situation is good, in the state budget, that it's much better than it was. There is, of course, an exaggeration, which is why every authority tends to, that a little too pink color images the state of the register, as probably the opposition images too critically, so was it when the positions were changed. I mean, so, besides that law that's unacceptable to us in that sense, it's the Debt Act, out of those 50 million euros, these two are, in particular, the first, acceptable and, I say, the colleagues you consult really had no major objections. As I said, that's the second time you've come with solid bill proposals, which is for every praise, so before we know it, both the viewers and those who followed, when this government was formed, and the previous one, you were probably the most attacked or one of the most attacked ministers, the most critical ministers on that list of new ministers. I can't judge the merits of these charges, but the laws you're showing up with here are fine or they don't mind much. There's a shadow of doubt over this other medical records bill, records. Some colleagues have already talked about it. You've given some explanation. I'd like you to do it again. There is a possibility or dilemma whether it improves the protection or enables the misuse of such data through their centralization. It's something we can have this attitude or that kind of attitude about. We know that there was a leak of certain data from the medical records in the previous period and that it was ultimately solved by the donkey wolf. It was also for a vaccine of this government, it's been before. It's something to get in the way. If you also think that this is a way, this kind of centralization, it might be good at least because we know who's responsible, or who's responsible, if that happens. That's what our dilemma is about this Act of Documentation, the record. What's the problem, not with these laws, because like I said, there are no bigger dilemmas, that's what you came up with with a good mutantis mutantis, is that right, law proposals, but these aren't central and roof laws in this area and we're still missing it and as if it's being avoided or estimated that it's not matured time for that, and in the meantime, and that's where the difference is, a serious difference in the assessment of the health situation between me and my fellow MPs. So these bill proposals aren't bad. I can also agree with the praises, I say, some people who understand you said them on your work and your associates, but when it comes to the state of health, we unfortunately cannot agree with you, not because you didn't even boast as much as some colleagues from the ruling majority. I mean, people I trust in health care is bad, of course it doesn't start with power, but it also can't accept the logic that we've heard for a little while that someone's been destroying health care for 12 years, so now it's hard to fix it. I don't normally comment on that kind of statement and I realize that it's part of the folklore of politics, but I just have to say that no one has ruled for 12 years. We had three sets of ruling furniture since 2000, before that one to 2000, where much was problematic, of course, there were sanctions and war. On the other hand, we had one government that lasted two or three years of DOS, we had the DSS government – Vojislav Kostunica for four years until 2008 and from 2008 to 2012 the government that lasted, the one from the DS and Boris Tadic. So this ruling majority has been going on for five years and more than five years, so you can't keep talking like, about, you or these things have ruined everything, so we can't fix it. I think the state of health is bad. It's been known that healthcare professionals are working very hard. I had a chance to see Sombor where my parents were in pain what the hard work of that medical staff in those hospitals, in those health institutions, and it's probably so all over Serbia, but there are few personnel and my last question for you -- do you have a record, does the Ministry keep track of how many health workers have gone in the last four years from Serbia? I think the drain is very large, it's been there before, but I think it's alarming and we're getting really empty hospitals, and there's less and less doctors and medical staff and, yes, they're very dissatisfied. The patients they are pleased with will be judged by the citizens and viewers themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25661	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25662	I'll try to answer all your questions. We can go from this number to how many of them are leaving. That number isn't nearly as much as it's mentioned to be thousands. You have about a thousand requests from the medical chamber to get a certificate so they can go somewhere to work. That means they can go work weekends in Republika Srpska, Montenegro or somewhere and stay here. They can go to the moon, two, three for some sort of upgrade, and then come back. What matters is that we treat this problem as if it's something that's going to happen. So this has happened in all countries, from countries in the environment, including in EU countries. Of the countries in the area of serious problems, Romania, some other countries, Croatia has a terrible problem, Slovenia is a terrible problem, to Germany itself, which has the kind of salary it has, but people go to Emirate, Kuwait, to some other countries where they get even bigger salaries. It's a simple process that we can't influence much, because there will always be someone who can give more money. What made us more concerned and made us a bigger problem is that we found the structure of specialists, specialists who were over 50 years old, over 55 years old, and who at some point, whether it's five years or some years more or less, have to retire by letter of the law. In order for you to have a new specialist, you have to hire him or give him a volunteer specialization and it takes you five years to get it, and after five years of passing a specialist exam, he's not nearly as experienced as that specialist who retired. That was the problem with us because they didn't give specials. That was one of the reasons why we changed the law in an emergency procedure so that specializations could be given to solve the problem. If we don't go in now, you're counting, you're looking for some excuse, I don't even know how important those citizens are to who was, where he was, but you made one mistake, one minister was eight years old. If there's nothing you can do in eight years, whether governments have changed or not, I think that's something that's denying you about this, a period of eight years is two terms, or you've done something or you haven't done it. What did we find? Once again, the citizens know best that we are not getting into it. We activated all our young doctors, especially those who had the will and desire and who volunteered here. These are children who worked out of love and children who had serious averages and who did not attract those high wages in other countries, but who worked here for a few years and volunteered and we had an obligation to them. Most of these children were also admitted, of course, to the competition, unlike the previous period, which is extremely, extremely important, extremely transparent and we received all the children from the bureau. I have to tell you that over 90% of the cases were received children who had an average of over 9, we think they're our future. What we started with, and that's to change that generation of doctors, to bring in a new generation, to allow them to specialize, to perfect themselves, to have all the conditions to perfect themselves. Not to mention, you've seen for yourself how much quality equipment they need, from diagnostics, to all other things, that at least they have it here and they don't need it. We bring foreign experts here. We plan to have our children, but make sure we don't damage the system when they leave for half a year, for a year somewhere abroad, that we have such a production that they can go to that period and then go back and apply some new methods that they would see there and that they would do. I have to tell you, you're not satisfied with health care, personal matter. It's the way everyone thinks it is. What are the facts, which is true, if you say it's bad, but our poor health care is currently helping in several areas of Montenegro. So that's how bad it is. For heart surgery, for neurosurgical surgery, it helps in the field of neurosurgery and in other areas. This poor health care of ours, it helps the Republic of Serbia, too, in several areas. People from Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, come to this poor health. Especially at St. Sava Hospital, or somewhere where we have the worst of these strokes, where we leaders are in it, it's between 450 and 500 interventions. In the first six hours it's done with a man who's had a stroke, he can go home the next day like nothing happened. If it wasn't done, that patient would have to stay in the hospital a lot longer, uncertain how long he'd recover, and from the hospital to go to the spa. Imagine how much it costs and what it gets with this. There, these foreign experts come to us to master these methods that we do. They have the equipment, but they have no knowledge, they come here. So, we have patients from Macedonia, from Bosnia, from Albania, from Kosovo, all of these are patients who opt for ours, this poor health care. That's the facts. Not to mention people who come from distant countries from the West here to operate on us, to be treated, specifically from America, Canada, Germany and other countries, when they get sick, it's too expensive for them. So these are the facts of today, which no one can deny. On that gamma knife we mentioned we had 1,500 of our patients, there our patients are not waiting, but we have managed to do over 100 patients abroad, because simply, it's something we charge for and from that we keep that gamma knife system. The work begins for something more advanced and recent and better than cyber knives, the accelerators are done. So we're going to have a situation half next year, so we can't have waiting lists for radiation, because we're going to meet the standard of having one machine per 250,000 inhabitants. Not to remind you of what happened and what happened before. How much money has been spent, why it hasn't been bought without which you can't go on, and we have warnings that more and more people will get sick, especially from malignancies, that's another question now, I'm saying I'm not coming back. But that's something that has to be, contracts are signed, tight with guarantees, with all the necessary things, where we've protected ourselves, and it has to be by mid next year. What did we focus on? We've been focusing on preventive checks, because you just have, statistics are like that when you detect the onset of the disease in time, you can figure it out that tomorrow this patient has no consequences. I'll tell you one example, last month when those free checks were organized, we had 17,000 people who answered, both with a booklet and no booklet. For what reason? It happened that people were left without insurance because of failed businesses, factories, but you can't lift those people's right to find out in time if they're sick. In those 17,000 reviews we had, we discovered in them 596 diseases that are highly treatable, because we discovered them at the initial stage and these people will be treated and normally function in both their family and their society. Now, on Sunday, we have a again organised free review, it's again some third week of the month, where we will work with 50 mammographers in Serbia, everyone will be available to our citizens whether they have or do not have books, all of our interested women will review oncologists. If there's any doubt, they'll get mammography. To all interested, we're going to do a thyroid examination, we're going to do a thyroid examination, so people can find out if they have a problem or if they don't have a thyroid. How are we gonna do that? It won't cost our zero dinar system. For what reason, because we have invited these suppliers who have been supplying this for decades, to donate for this opportunity these reagents and all that is necessary for them to be also socially useful to do this action, to engage.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25663	Thank you. Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25664	President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, here we have a debate coming to an end and if we are to systematicize what has been said since the objections to this law, Minister, you should be satisfied and oversatisfactory, because there were essentially no major objections. You have a group of MPs who have had language remarks and as a comment stereotype, so the law needs to be restored from the procedure. So our people say -- we're looking for hair in the egg, because there were no other objective remarks. Then, to that other law, the second group of objections is to the Commissioner for the Protection of Personality Data and the finding of one Member that they are against that large database of the health information system. It's necessary, it's the future, the abuse, that's why there's the law. There are "heaven's papers," there's Snowden, there's hackers who steal bank accounts, but that's something that's subject to the law. There are always criminals who can abuse the law. So, we're not talking about anything that's potentially possible, but through this Data Manager Act, which is Batut, it's practically creating and solving a misunderstanding about these data, and at any moment, someone who abuses will suffer legal consequences, as far as that goes. Then, the third group commented on the MPs that this is, in fact, the acceptance of European standards relating to, and the separation of the Law on Medical Resources and Medicinal Products, in fact, the strengthening of European bureaucracy, and that is why we will also create a space to increase bureaucratic apparatus. These laws are in line with EU laws, because this is necessary, not only because of EU entry, but also because we need to meet the standards of our drug manufacturers that will thus open the markets of both Western Europe and Western Europe. Surely, everything that is done and through legislation, it regulates, especially as far as medicine is concerned, I have to say, it all came from the relevant professional, scientific and other needs and experience to regulate, when we talk about the Medical Devices Act, from production, distribution, sales, advertising, and the withdrawal from the use of medicines. So, there's nothing from the size of the bureaucratic apparatus. I'm trying to look at what's happened here since some of the remarks, so these are the remarks, which are such insignificant remarks, and all my colleagues from the SNS Parliament Club, so I'm not going to tell my colleagues from the ruling coalition, they've explained in detail and explained all segments of the usefulness of these two laws and this third contract on the construction of clinical centres. There was a third group, a discussion yesterday, especially yesterday, I don't know why an emotional charge, from a parliamentary group that crashed the health system by 2012. There's no need for me to be a lawyer and defend, Minister Loncar has given them everything well explained and presented to them, what kind of health care has been found and what has been done in this time. A moment ago, in that discussion, one of the other MPs, I explained what was found and what was done during this period of time. So the people who belonged to the party, whose minister and prime minister of the government, collapsed, that I wasn't speaking, brought down the entire state, but as far as health care is concerned, they were putting objections to yesterday, which were argued by Minister Loncar and gave answers. It was at the end of the remark, now I remember – you give us the information in the paper. The minister says - you can come all transparent, we'll give you all the papers. Minister, don't be surprised if they come there so they can say -- well, this is suspicious, maybe it's a fake. So sometimes the objections of the evildoers can go into infinity, so the essence of the work's arguments, and I've seen some MPs and those arguments yesterday come from opposition lines, which are not here now, I mean, when I look at where they are, they're gone. What the colleague said – when the agenda is adopted, they jump and roar, and now that we're discussing the laws, they're gone. Generally, these two laws were necessary, which you explained in the opening statement. I'd just add, just for the sake of the viewers, in this clinical center contract, I think that only Millie mentioned the square. Cleanly, viewers who monitor the transmission, to know that this loan for the Clinical Centre of Belgrade, of course, has two phases – construction, renovation, adaptation and this includes a project for Belgrade of 150,000 square meters. For the Nis Clinical Centre, it is already said, it covers the building space, which is the adaptation, of course with all that and the supply of equipment 50,000 squares. Clinical Center Novi Sad about 35,000 square meters, Kragujevac Clinical Center 30,000. So it's a big investment in new capacities, which will certainly pay and employ the appropriate staff. We did not mention that viewers know that here, besides investing in clinical centres, we have an investment relating to the waste management project, because according to compliance with European laws, it is necessary to invest properly in storage, deposit medical waste, so that means it. Another important segment that someone else crashed, which refers to transfusions, so this project also provides for blood transfusions, to build and let into operation, means blood transfusion centres in all four clinical centres. Few fellow Laketic mentioned blood transfusions, we know that it was found in many clinical centres, not to say in hospitals, in this regard, a desperate state, I can use such an expression, and that it is necessary to improve that segment. So the public knows that this isn't just construction with equipment, with personnel next to these four clinical centres, but also other segments. In the end, let me say that personally I, and of course the SNS Parliament Club, will vote for these laws, and the Ministry of Health is in this period, this is the second group of sets of health laws to be regulated, we had one, this is another group, which improves and raises the level of organisation and quality of health care work. I'm personally pleased that there are no fundamental objections to the law here. The amendments will obviously be written to write, so that they can advertise here, but essential remarks do not have every word of praise for the Ministry of Health in his work and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25665	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25666	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, I spoke yesterday, and today I'm going to speak again, because these are the topics that anyone who is well-intentioned is interested in. Now I'm in a slightly more favourable position, because I've had the opportunity to listen to your presentations, and some of the ambiguities or dilemmas that I've had removed, and some of them are deepened. We'll talk about these deepened ones, so I'm gonna ask you a question again, and I'm gonna get answers. So, I'm going to agree absolutely with you and me as a health care worker, I don't think Serbian healthcare is that bad. I am not a supporter of those who will say, but also of my wish, regardless of being a representative of the Serbian Dvora movement, the opposition political group, is to make it better than it is. That is, in addition to your declared wing before the election, and let's just say that what we talked about -- faster, stronger, better, and make it, and in some things you didn't do it. We talked a little while ago, you're a three-year minister, a little over April 27th, from what I saw in 2014, and you were talking about the state you found. I don't know, I can protect you and trust you. But you know what's wrong with that? Eight years ago, your coalition partner was a minister, and eight plus three is 11 years old, and now that we're talking, we can't talk about three years, maybe not all eight, we can't just talk about those three years, like the period we were supposed to catch up on specials. When I graduated from college and asked for specialization, knowing that two colleagues would retire, they told me that I was young, no matter what I was a student of the generation. Then I specialize in something else. I know what that problem is through personal skin, but what we've been waiting for for for three years, because we've got a lot of finished specialists leaving. We can talk about youth employment on a global scale, but we can talk about it in particular. The details are related to the city of the King. I will not tell you the names and members of the parties as they are accepted. It's not just the average of what's decisive, unfortunately, Mr. Minister. When you come to the King, I will be working to tell you in front of the authorities of the city of kings where there is no respect for that criterion, but let me put it aside, let's talk about the law. To me, it remains the most unclear Law on the confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. So, the whole project, which it says in its explanation, presented and explained by the European Investment Bank, costs about 430 million. Of these 430 million, the government of the Republic of Serbia provides 165 million, the World Bank 15.6 million, donors 10 million, the European Commission 38.6 million, and the loan we raise through projects Clinical Centre A - 80 million, B - 70 million and C - 50 million. In the period when we signed our first loan in 2006, Nele Karajlic would say – since then 12 Bajrams, since 2006 80 million, in 2008 70 million. We, according to the data you gave yesterday, spent a total of 36 million. I don't know if we're, that's what I want to know, did we pull all 150 million? If we didn't pull them out, that's how I understood yesterday, what do we need another 50 now? Where is 160 of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Where's the difference to 140? You'll explain. It's these misunderstandings. They're my dilemmas. You told me what the interest was and I realized here that 150 thousand square meters in the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, 30,000 in Kragujevac, 50 in Novi Sad and 35 in Nis. I figured out what's done. I figured out what was going on, but did we need a loan that was someone, and I'm going back to yesterday's question, and I'm signing and making credit agreements, did we then need so much credit if we spent over a period of 12 years of 430 million, how much project, 3.8; 3.3; 1.5 and 0.5 million euros in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac? I think that's the kind of information I picked up, maybe somewhere in one decimal I was wrong. A 36 million circus in 12 years. So they conditioned us then that the entire loan must be 200 million. Do I understand that well? If so, what kind of friends from the EU are they to make us take what we don't need, or do we need it, but we can't use what we need? I do not like Denmark when they bring gifts and therefore do not trust the EU, Mr Minister, no matter what I say, we need money and I know that all of this is in order to improve the overall health system and these four existing clinical centres in the Republic of Serbia. So, I asked another question yesterday, and I'm getting information in your discussions that the project for this famous and famous wall that was torn down in Nis was done by an Italian firm. It's the ones who gave us the money and did the project, so now we're gonna take it down. Is it someone's fault the Italians made a mistake? Did anyone pay any punishment for the Italians' mistakes? And, how is it possible, I don't really blame you because I see that you're showing energy and you're putting energy into a better situation, but how is it possible for us to withdraw so little money in such a period of years? What have we been doing for 11 years? Then, in that context, I'd like to know if these 36 million have been spent in the last three years, so, during your ministry? If that's the case, Mr. Minister's responsibility before you. There's no discussion, you're in power, you have a knife and a cake. Well, the opposition doesn't have to force you to seek responsibility. And if that's not the case, if we're incompetent too, I mean right now you guys, then look yourself in the mirror, and say what's wrong with that. I saw that in the meantime for these two 70m and 80m credit lines, the contract was extended to withdraw funds for the first and second lines by 31.12.2018, and the contract when the facilities were to be completed was 31.12.2019. That's what it says in the explanation. So in two years, we're going to finish something we didn't pull the first money for, and we're taking the third money. We'll agree that someone has to be responsible for that. That's what I'm talking about, and there's my inconceivables. We talked earlier about hiring new people, because yesterday, in one part of the session, everyone jumped out of the topic. Thank God, and we should jump out, and I am grateful to you for showing you the will to enter the controversy and to give answers to the extent possible, because questions are all sorts of things. So it's not true, Minister, that so few people are leaving us. It is a problem for all countries, but, you know, in the country of Serbia, I've worked 17 years as a professor of professional subjects and the mass of my students you know where it is? In Germany. You know what they tell me? There is a joke – there is a need to increase the fund of lessons in German-language medical sciences. I know we can't keep people, but shouldn't we as a ministry think that restoring dignity to a health care profession is an increased salary to a health profession? Well, it's a good thing we're not the last in place for corruption anymore, and I'm happy to hear that, but let's think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25667	You've spent your time with your MPs. Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25668	I will answer you most specifically. You've got some numbers. I repeat, Serbia's Clinical Centre 3.8 million, Nis 3.3, Vojvodina Clinical Centre 1.3 and Kragujevac 0.5. What has been spent in this period for three years, which you say, this is 30 million for Nis who worked and part of this, most of it over half for Belgrade where it ended up complete... You had to have a project, and we didn't even have a project. So that's where the money went. Plus two-thirds of this 1.3 million for Novi Sad where we have a complete project. It's up to the European Bank to call when she wants a tender for it. The Belgrade Clinical Centre, the whole procedure has been completed, should be chosen by the performer. Here's what you've been looking for for for what's been spent in three years and what's in this. So this over 90% has been realized in these three years. Whether Nis was canned or there was meadows, people who were ever there know that it was flooded and so on, and now you have what you have. I'm sorry I didn't bring the pictures, but I'll bring the next time around that famous wall. I asked them to send me a picture, because I want everyone to see, I have nothing to hide. So it's one piece that went through on one huge wall, I'll show you. So, just for that machine that had to go in, which at the moment they were projected, they didn't know until it ended what would be the top of the technology, what would be able to get in, whether it would come out of the pieces, if you had to put it in like this, and that's it. I'll show you. It's all about their expense, they have to pay for the penalty and the end of the story. You had a contract, you said, well, from 2006, which you can't break up. It's all clear to you. But how did that contract come to be? It is designed so that if you want to do anything for Belgrade, you have to withdraw separately, or reserve funds only for it, and those funds don't apply when you move on to work Nis. You can't have those funds you booked for Belgrade to transfer and say -- you know what, we had these reserved funds. It can't, it stays, you don't pull them, you don't pay interest, and nothing happens, that they don't have citizens' dilemmas. Nothing happens until you spend it, until you invest it for what you did. That's why they're pulling out, especially for this, because you have one thing that's up to our law, you can't sign any public procurement, if you don't have funds in position secure. That's the only reason why, I think we understand each other, and you figure out who's what and how he spent it, what happened in 2006 and the rest. So it's for the citizens, and it's clear to all of you. As for employment in the King, I insist on hiring after the competition to accept the best. Please tell me where it's not done. I'm the first to send an inspection and determine. I care, I want a new, good, young generation of doctors. I'm not interested in anything else. That's all I care about, and I'll insist on it. I don't know what else you asked me. The finance ministry is allowing us to hire seven more inspectors to carry out what we want to do without those malfeasances, not to be originals or forgeries, to clarify that part as well. I think I've answered all your questions specifically. PRESIDENT: Predrag Jelenković. Here you go. You have five minutes and 58 seconds. Predrag Jelenkovic: Thank you President. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, this law is very important, as counterpart Bačevac spoke yesterday, but is primarily important for the overall improvement of Serbia's health. Although it would be luckier if there were as many healthy people in Serbia as possible and that today, yesterday and the next days, we were not having discussions about where the impression is coming from, first of all, that someone is against these investments and who is in favour. A few details, related to the Nis Clinical Centre, which has been mentioned several times, are that something over 33m euros has cost construction. Over 15m euros in equipment. What is important to note is that the equipment was purchased from the budget and that no loan was taken for that equipment, as far as I know. A total of 50m euros, and this is the largest investment in Serbia's health since the creation of the Military Academy in the old SFRY. For Nis it would be like historical data, since the time of Dragisa Cvetkovic, when the Banovina building, the current university, was built in 1939, as well as of course some other significant buildings, later in 1948, the Electronic Industry, etc. There are currently 29 anaesthetic devices in the Nis Clinical Centre, and 35 of the latest anaesthetic devices have been purchased in this package alone. Two multi-layer scanners, three angular halls, three large x-rays, and several mobile X-rays for operating rooms, ten ultrasounds, 630 hospital beds, and all patients are in double-bed rooms with bathrooms. The most modern magnetic resonance, in these areas, of 3 Tesla, is commonly said to be the most modern electronic microscope for neurosurgery that costs more than 400,000 euros, the most modern surgical tables of the Make brand. That's what they'd say Mercedes is in that branch. This equipment increases the efficiency of the Nis Clinical Center by more than 40%. Otherwise, the reminders work, for other colleagues who criticised this investment yesterday, the Nis Clinical Centre, gravitate to the Clinical Centre more than 2.5 million people in Southeast Serbia, from Presevo to Jagodina and from Bor to Kruševac. From a mini swamp, as the minister said in the wider centre of the city, there was a magnificent investment as a chance just for new jobs and the employment of people from the health profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25669	Thank you. The word is by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25670	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us yesterday and today very important proposals for medical law, a law that aims to comply with EU regulations and applies to medical means for human use, in vitro diagnostic medical means and active implantable medical means, as well as medical aids for medical means. This law regulates the conditions for the production and transport of medical means and the use in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the presence of quality medical means marked with c. It also prescribes clinical trials of medical means, vigillance, quality control and market surveillance, assesses compliance with basic requirements, advertising, marking, surveillance in these areas and so on and applies to medical remedies for human use. Changes in the responsibilities of the Alims, the introduction of new professional jobs, the keeping of a register of manufacturers, the Agency for Treatment and Medical Devices and the Ministry of Health shall take all necessary measures to protect public health and patient safety, including health care professionals, from risks that may cause a medical remedy. Prior to the placing on the market and use in the Republic of Serbia, the conformity assessment can be carried out by the manufacturer, the notified body, or the authorised body to assess compliance by choice of the manufacturer. The Minister shall prescribe conformity assessment procedures and type of conformity document. In order to prevent the occurrence of severe consequences for the health of the population in the event of an epidemic, as well as in other emergency situations, the Government may also prescribe, on a proposal from the Minister, a different manner, procedure and conditions for placing on the market and registration of medical means, production, transport, quality control, marking, vigilance, relief and application, or the application of the conditions laid down by this law and regulations adopted for its implementation. The Agency approves the conduct of a clinical trial within a maximum of 40 days of receipt of the request, and this reduction in the time limit and registration procedure will increase the number of clinical trials, thereby creating greater opportunities for innovative therapies. The Ethics Committee of Serbia shall give an independent and impartial opinion on the request for consent in the procedure carried out in parallel with the Agency's approval within 30 days of the date of submission. Taking into account EU rules, as well as the practice of EU Member States, the separation of regulations governing medical resources from the rules governing medicinal products has been implemented. In fact, the area of medicines is regulated at EU level by other rules that are completely legal and fundamentally different and cannot be combined with their introduction and application. As regards the second draft law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health, the law was passed three years ago and began to apply at the beginning of this year and defined by the data handler which makes up the integrated health information system, the shortened ISIS of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Institute of Public Health established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Institute of Public Health shall inform the person, or persons to whom such data relate, of any damage to the security of the data referred to in Article 2(2), the Ministry of Health and the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. In order to create a legal precondition for the practical application of this law in Article 2, sanctions have been proposed for the Institute of Public Health in case they do not comply with the provisions of Article 1 of this Act. As we have already heard from Mr. Health Minister for the implementation of this law, it does not require new funding, because it only defines the concepts, or does not constitute the introduction of a new activity of this institute that requires financial resources, but is an activity that will be carried out in the framework of the regular activity of this institute. In accordance with the need to fully comply with the provisions of the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care with the regulations governing the protection of personal data and specific areas, particularly sensitive data. Since it started with the implementation of certain segments of ISIS, in the health institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and that the provisions of the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health are not defined who handles and is responsible for the information provided by the Information Health System, I believe that the misunderstanding has been removed. In view of all of this, due to the fact that the regulation of this matter in a proposed way can prevent the consequences of the most essential human rights of citizens, such as the right to privacy, the right to the protection of personal data, the right to security, is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. The aim of this law is to create preconditions for the smooth functioning of health institutions and health systems in general. The solutions proposed in this law are the result of co-operation by the Ministry of Health, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the Institute of Public Health of Serbia and the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. Given that the Institute of Public Health of the Republic of Serbia, and so far manages statistics that are part of the ISIS, there is no need for further staff education, and any reorganisation of jobs will be carried out within existing capacities. Because of everything forward and because of the quality and well-being of patients in the first place, as well as the medical profession, the SNS will vote on these bill proposals in the voting day. I would also like to thank our SNS President, Mr Alexander Vukic, Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar, Ministry of Health, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for stopping the health pay-back and returning the dignity to health care and health care workers, as well as all the activities they have done to ensure that Serbian health is on the list of European health care by the health consumer index and being even ahead of six EU member states, and that we have heard a lot in advance of what we have already heard. Just for a moment, Mr. Minister, if you please, for the sake of public truth and reminders, in 2013, when the SNS took responsibility for the House of Health in Ćuprija, the following condition was found: over 300 employees, normative was 130, 170 not agreed without the approval of the Ministry of Health and means that extra employees were for another home of health. As a result of such a policy, today the total debt of the House of Health in Turkey, a relatively small home of health, is over 321 million dinars, or more than 177 million dinars to suppliers and more than 144 million dinars to employees, not contracted workers. Furthermore, the blockade of the Tupri municipality's budget for 70 million dinars according to the court's ruling, and on the basis of the ballots which the unanimated workers sued the home of health, the attempt to seizing the Sanitary vehicles of the House of Health of Cupri, namely, from the Ministry of Health, our home of health, has received three modern sanity and only because of primary health care and that the patients will be, the citizens will be denied for first and immediate assistance, it has failed to complete. Then, not certified health books to healthcare professionals and this, to the unannounced workers since August 2012, and then to contracted from January 2014, etc. Now, this image, this epochal image, is a well-inherited and inherited situation from earlier authorities in the House of Health in Ćupria, which, unfortunately, is not the only one in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25671	The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25672	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Minister Loncaru, the honored guests of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one European law before us, a proposal for a law on medical means, where full compliance is carried out with EU regulations. That's why I'm going to talk about this law in a different way than other colleagues, in the sense that this law is an example of pro-European law. This law regulates the conditions for the production and transport of medical means, i.e. placing on the market and use in the Republic of Serbia, clinical trials of medical means, vigilance, monitoring of medical resources on the market and technical assessment, assessment of the consistency of medical means with basic requirements, advertising, marking of medical resources and supervision in this area. Article 2 defines what medical means are. I wouldn't stick to it by reading the law, but I'll just point out that the medical means of its primary purpose doesn't meet the human organism, pharmacologically, immunologically, or metabolic activity, but it can be supported by such means in its function. Also, to mention very briefly that this law does not apply to medicinal products, cosmetic preparations, human blood and blood products, cell and tissue transplants of human origin, cell and animal tissue transplants, as well as means of use exclusively in veterinary medicine, and all of this was covered by the earlier Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of 2012 and 2010. In order to produce the Law on Medical Resources, the Minister of Health appointed a working group in 2015 as the Ministry of Health, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices ALIMS, the Ministry of Industry and the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, you said because of your registration in the register. After agreeing with the text on medical means, it was delivered to the Chamber of Commerce to meet with industry representatives with the proposed solutions in 2016. At the initiative of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in Kragujevac, a symposium was held on the topic where the draft medical law entitled "Regulating and Harmonising Regulations with EU Regulations" was presented, as well as new reliefs that bring new Law on Medical Resources, a review of the benifits. Also, the 12th congress of ALIMS 2016, where I was pleased to attend the convention, including the 13th congress of ALIMS in 2017, are dedicated to this particular topic. Thus, the above - mentioned law entered the congregation procedure in a very clear, transparent manner. The adoption of this emergency law is therefore necessary in order to ensure that the market conditions set are met as soon as possible, as well as the harmonisation of the business of the industry for EU requirements. In addition, market conditions are being created for product placement in the EU, which will aim to develop the medical resources industry and new investments in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. The EU accession process requires harmonisation with directives and other EU regulations in the area of medical resources. First, for general medical means, to be used in humanitarian medicine code 93/42 EC, for active implantable medical means, for in vitro medical means code 98/79 EC, and guidance and guide to MEDEV, Medical Device Regional System, I underline this MEDEV system. Given that clinical trials of medical agents, and we know that the applicable Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the area of clinical trials of medical means has been done in the same way as the clinical study of medicines, has not been fully implemented by EU regulations. This law proposes solutions from the MEDEV guide. The guidelines and the MEDEV guide do not have the power of the law, are not binding, but should be understood as imperative. So, for example, a vigilant in the regulations according to the MEDEV guide, but before I explain it, I am obliged to say that the word vigillity or vigilance is a Latin word of vigilance, and in Serbian we can characterise it as a transfer, as a precaution, and in psychiatry there is one term with which it is operated that is vigilonst, attention, which all fits, to say in the definition of the vigilance of medical means, that it is a set of activities on knowledge and risks arising from the use or use of medical means. But let me get back to the first thing. When I said that the vigelance contained first general principles, definition, producer role, role of competent authority, role of the notified body, role of the European Commission, role of users, and additions, these are patterns and examples. Also, I would not be much obliged to explain what the C sign means, but at the lecture was in Kragujevac on technical files, which contains this C mark, as well as ISO standards, to note that the current ISO standard is currently valid and that world standardisation organisations 14155, that the application of the Serbian sign of conformity and harmonised Serbian standard is not prescribed. For example, of the 33,867 medical resources entered in the Register of Medical Resources, 228 medical resources were not agreed, i.e. it does not possess a C sign, representing a total of 0.6%, and of the total number of 96 reports of suspicions of the quality of medicine originating in the country outside the EU, 70% of the cases of withdrawal of medical resources from the market, and 95.7 were medical resources originating in non-EU countries. Therefore, it is a very small number of products that are encouraged outside the EU, but in order to protect the health system and the life and health of people, it is prescribed that all products comply with standards in the Republic of Serbia, or in the EU, as regulated in Article. Article 17 18th of the existing law. This law makes it impossible to enter non-quality and per user of insecure medical resources on the market. Both to the health institutions of the Republic of Serbia and to prevent counterfeit medical resources from entering legal supply flows. The obligation of the Republic of Serbia is to harmonise the rules with EU rules by the end of the negotiation process. This law makes full compliance with EU rules. Finally, as far as the Nis Clinical Center, for all the unbelieving Tom, since it's been enough about the clinic, and I come from the Imperial City, it's the town of Nis, I'm going to show these photos, what the Nis Clinical Center looks like, it's one of the most modern buildings, not only in Serbia, but also in the Balkans, and beyond. Last time I said and made a mistake, right, the Nis Clinical Center hasn't been built for 35 years, my colleague Krasic corrected me, 38 years old. I checked that information. It's 38 and a half years it's been built. We will finish it and open it unlike the previous authorities that are in Nis. You know what they opened up in Nis? The yellow company opened a guard's house on its way into the Mediana Archaeological Park and an iron court. Therefore, for the unbelieving Tom, the Nis Clinical Center will be completed. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25673	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25674	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, except that this law will certainly contribute to resolving the problem, which inevitably poses a risk to patients, I must say that it will, above all, contribute to the development of the Serbian economy. In fact, if you look at the members of the law, it is clear that this will contribute to an increase in exports when it comes to Serbian drug manufacturers, and thus to increasing and strengthening the Serbian economy in general, which is somewhere on a line designed by SNS headed by President Aleksandra Vukic, and somewhere it is in line with the policy this Government of the Republic of Serbia is implementing. It's good, of course, by looking at this law, the honourable ministers, that you found some balance between those two elements of the protection of patients on the one hand, and strengthening the Serbian economy in general. On the other hand, on the medical aspects of the law itself, I would not much, my fellow MPs from the SNS were already talking about it, first of all, on that economic aspect I will base myself on. You are joining this increase in economic growth in Serbia, which is expected to go to almost 3% this year. The percentages by 2012 were the same, also 3%, but the Serbian economy was 3% in decline, compared to what today is 3% in a positive sense. Also, this legislative proposal creates better conditions for Serbia's medicine producers and joins the fight to reduce the unemployment rate. I'm back in 2012, you have unemployment 25%, now a little over 11%. This has contributed to the Ministry of Health in this area. After all, does the law itself have its place in the exposé, which the prime minister presented in the day of the government's election in this respected home? And to say, can Serbian health do better? Of course he can do better, and of course he can do more, but he doesn't need to, the Honorable Minister, he shouldn't stop and he shouldn't keep his mouth shut in front of false accusations. I again because of the citizens of Serbia, who are looking at this, to point out, in 2016 Serbia was declared the country with the greatest improvement in quality of health and it is not an assessment of either the ministry, nor us MPs, it is an assessment of important international factors, and it is the merit of both these governments and your ministry, your team and you, Mr. Minister. There's a lot more results. Serbia needs to know. You also listed air therapy machines, 700 million dinars, as I recall, last year it was singled out, 85 mobile hospitals you got last year, these Sanitary vehicles, very important. On a gamma knife 1,500 interventions, I think, so far. You don't need to keep your mouth shut, and you should say that this is something that is really important for Serbia and serious progress in Serbian health. Now, if you compare everything I said to some details by 2012, you know that Serbian healthcare is by 2012, that it was marked mostly by some kind of vaccine-related affair. You remember that theater roll of Boris Tadic's sleeve and that vaccination thing. If you compare it all now with this data that I have provided, it is clear that Serbian healthcare is on a positive path and on the path of healing. With that in mind, dear Minister, I as a folk MP, as part of a large team of SNS who supported you in the election day in this House, will support both this and similar legislative proposals coming from your ministry. Certainly, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, I am grateful to you for all of this you are doing to stop the sunflower of Serbian health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25675	Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25676	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will talk about the draft law confirming the financial agreement Clinical Center/C between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. In fact, this loan is worth 200m euros. This is phase three or the third tranche of credit. Someone just said, "Why didn't we spend the money by then?" For God's sake, if the SNS hadn't come, with the then Prime Minister and today's president, Mr. Vucic, thanks to him, to you, to the entire government, we'd be groping in the city. We were the worst on the European scale. What does that mean? If nothing had been done, nothing had invested. They don't have any credits. And now, here, we're building two new clinical centres. It will be completed next year in Nis divine clinical centre, then in Kragujevac, renovating two centres in Novi Sad and Belgrade. A Belgrade clinical centre will be completely relieved. Good for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Congratulations. Keep up the good work. About what we've been doing, I'll briefly, since there's a lot of speakers, just to name it. So, progress from the back of the scale in Europe, six moving places. I'm sure by 2021 when the facilities are finished, and there are 309, fortunately, in the Republic of Serbia, we'll be in a very envious place and we'll be safe somewhere in 15th place, we'll be in the middle, and we'll be in Switzerland and we'll be one day. What have we done? We did it first, a gift, 65 vehicles went to municipalities that never had a sanity vehicle. Imagine, please, in the 21st century. Then we bought a gamma knife. Before that went to Turkey, 10,000 euros were per patient. We'll buy a cyber knife. So, all operations will be conducted in the Republic of Serbia and that should be stressed, free of charge. We're the only country in the world to do these operations for free. Bravo! What else? A lot of things. We've created a stem cell bank, we've increased the number of slide scanners, 33% of the women have been examined that have the potential to get uterus cancer. The tendency is to examine all women in the Republic of Serbia. Epidural anesthesia has become free. Imagine, it was from 5,000 to 15,000. She's free now. And, uh, a lot of things. 309 facilities are being renovated throughout the Republic of Serbia, in Belgrade Emergency Centre, KBC "Dragisa Misovic", KBC "Zemun", "Tirsova". Any words of praise about that? What's only possible, the government says, is a lot, which is that 10% of GDP is spent on protection. Let it be spent. We run a social one - responsible policy and that's the way it should be. Now, let me deal with our friends a little bit before 2012, when this country was supposed to go bankrupt. Namely, the affair after the affair, the ‘vaccine’ affair, a declared outbreak of swine flu. Of swine flu, no sign of voice, but the Republic of Serbia's budget minus sevenm euros. There were a lot of bidders, among other things, the best institute in Serbia – Torlak, for immunology and virusology was not good enough. English vaccines weren't good enough, but they were good Swiss for 799 dinars. They were all cheaper. Well, let's see where those seven million euros are coming from. It's an exceptional test for the judiciary. You've done a lot of things. I wish you good luck and that in 2021, when this loan expires, we open up all these wonderful facilities. Of course, it should be noted that blood transfusion projects have been done for waste management. I thank you for that. The Serbian Progressive Party will be happy to vote in voting day for all these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25677	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25678	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the law relating to this topic, and it is now in force, is the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Means which is not in line with our other laws, nor fully with EU regulations. It is therefore very important to adopt a new Law on Medical Means. The EU Directives to be agreed on refer to human medicine, while regulations relating to medicinal products in veterinary medicine will continue to apply. Furthermore, the adoption of this law creates conditions for conducting more clinical studies in health institutions, encourages the development of medical sciences and allows for greater availability of the latest scientific achievements of healthcare professionals, and provides patients with modern therapy. The very important reason for the law is certainly the development of Serbia's economy. By harmonising the rules and later applying them, conditions are being created for domestic medical producers to place their products in EU countries, which will have positive effects on the development of Serbia's economy in general. Also, this law prevents the entry of insecure medical resources into the market and into health institutions. That's why law-making is urgent and necessary. As many countries have brought their legislation into line with EU rules, Serbia's market remains unprotected from unskilled and insecure medical resources. The adoption of this law establishes the control of the safety of medical means prior to placing on the market, in terms of compliance with the conditions, but also subsequently puts them on the market. The adoption of this law is best for solving problems, which is due to non-compliance with the rules, but also because of the regulation of conditions for the production and transport of medical resources. The provisions of the law will have a positive impact on economic operators, bodies to assess compliance, patients and the health system at all. The health ministry has shown great readiness to raise the health system to the level it deserves. The best example is the Nish Clinical Center. We've had a constructive debate, but besides, we've had small outbursts of some former regime MPs who, I must point out, have not been in the O.R. today for one moment to accompany this second day of principle debate on the bill's proposals. They made pointless accusations at the expense of the Nis Clinical Center. I have to remind myself that Nis is now, and it's just going to be, a big health center with 55,000 new squares of space, in which will be the most modern equipment and highly qualified frame. The possibility of treating the highest quality medical resources for people from several districts is being opened. Because of the time and because enough of my colleagues have already talked about the Clinical Centre in Nis and because of the great success that Nis will have such a large health center, I will thank you for your attention and invite all MPs to support the proposals of the Ministry of Health in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25679	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25680	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs are already before us on the second day there are a set of laws in the field of health care, the Law on Medical Means, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Registration and Documentation in the Health System, as one financial contract. At first, I must point out that yesterday I was amazed by the comment of a national MP from a small opposition party, who said that there were some laws that were obstacles and which, by the way, should, before these laws, be held at a session of the National Assembly. I must point out that for the Serbian Progressive Party, the highest value is its citizens. For SNS, the top priorities include the health priority of its population, the health of all citizens and citizens. Therefore, such a comment is extremely unreasonable, from the aspect of the Serbian Progressive Party, and perhaps it says how many MPs from these minor political parties think of the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I want to point out what is the common denominator of all these laws – that in the focus of these laws is to protect the best interests of the patient, improve the conditions in which patients are being treated, increase the quality of the medical service provided, as well as increase the quality and conditions in which healthcare professionals, doctors and medical staff are working. Yesterday we heard it had nothing to do with the satisfaction of health care professionals. I must say that the improvement of infrastructure, renovation, reconstruction, equipment for modern appliances and how important, both from the point of view of satisfaction and the improvement of the knowledge of healthcare professionals, I am primarily thinking of doctors and nurses, and from the aspect of the personal satisfaction of the patients who use these services, and which, of course, concerns the reduction of patient stays in the hospital, the rapid post-operative flow, the rapid recovery and rapid return of patients to their natural environment. I must also point out that the state of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Health, has renewed its request for admission to the Eurotransplant organisation, and it has been accepted, which is very important from the aspect of those patients waiting for organ transplants. I must also say that the Ministry of Health also led the campaign in terms of organ donation, that for the last five months of 2017, a total of 23 donors were registered, which is more than the total registered in the previous three years. I have two more health institutions to stress. The first health institution is an institution that was built 80 years ago, which is a reputation in the field of health protection of our youngest population, and it is a University Children's Clinic in Tirshaw. Now the reconstruction has begun, as well as the adaptation and adequate detention of the purpose of this institution, which is certainly one of the most famous in the region. Also, I have to stress the hospital's adaptation to psychiatric diseases, which is Dr Lazarevic Hospital, which treats two thousand patients and provides an ambulatory examination of 20,000 patients from all over Serbia annually. Adaptation, reconstruction, improvement of patient life conditions and improvement of the conditions of work of doctors and medical staff are certainly commendable. What concerns you personally, or the Ministry, I must commend your dedication to work on the ground. The work on the ground, your ministry and your ministry, is very important from the aspect of seeing the real situation and from the aspect of taking adequate measures to improve the health system. Finally, I must point out that in Priboj on December 1, 2016, she started working at a dialysis clinic, where there is a specialist nephrologist, where there is a specialized medical staff and this is the first time that citizens of Priboj, who need dialysis, do not have to cross 100 and more kilometers into neighbouring municipalities. The Serbian Progressive Party is in favour of modern and functional health, and in this regard we will support the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25681	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome Mr. Minister with his associates and dear fellow Members. We have important health laws ahead of us. When it comes to health care, I must say that health is a key indicator of the success of a country. The most expensive word on earth is health, because we can't buy it. To improve health care, to raise it to a higher level, we need to regulate it according to certain standards. Of these laws that are on the agenda today, I will refer to the draft medical law. To the already existing law, these are the most significant planned changes, the medical means, which we need to comply with EU regulations. These are general medical medicines used in human medicine, active implantable agents and in vitro medical agents. So, the Republic of Serbia has a number of tasks to bring health laws into line with European legislation. This is the need of our citizens, because it improves and facilitates their lives and modernizes their therapy. We also comply with the Law on Technical Requirements for Products and the Assessment of Consistency, as a roof law in the Republic of Serbia for all products. Most of the products in the Republic of Serbia, on our market, are currently meeting EU standards, which confirm that they are marked "C". It's a sign of consistency. A small number, 0.6% does not own this law and it is a very small number, which comes from third countries. Of the 60 domestic products, medical means that have serial production, 13 have no certificate and 30 have no "C". Due to this experience, as well as the obligation of the Republic of Serbia following the completion of the screening process in the accession process of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union and market analysis, conditions have been created to comply with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia in the field of medicine. In the regulation of the European Union and EU Member States, the areas of medical means for human and veterinary medicine are regulated by separate regulations, so that the rules already in force in veterinary medicine. The medicine area has also been done at European Union level, with other regulations that differ legally and substantially from medical means, and cannot be combined and applied. This law regulates and regulates clinical trials of medical means, provides guidelines for clinical practice, so that it creates conditions for the development of medical science, enables healthcare professionals, scientists to be made available to them the latest scientific achievements in medicine, and provides patients with modern and innovative treatments, without costs, according to the health system of the Republic of Serbia. All clinical trial resources are approved by the Agency and a positive opinion is given by the Ethics Committee of Serbia. The Agency shall also register medical resources. Clinical studies must be planned and conducted in such a way as to minimise pain, discomfort, fear or any other foreseeable risk to the health of the subjects. This law creates conditions for domestic production of medical products, for the placement of its products in the EU and other countries, creates conditions for developing the economy of the Republic of Serbia in general, creates conditions for the market that are equal to those in the EU and increases the number of clinical trials. Furthermore, it regulates the production and transport of medical resources, puts on the market, use in the Republic of Serbia, clinical trials, vigillance, quality control, market surveillance, conformity assessment. The aim of this law is to fully bring medical resources into line in the field of human medicine. Secondly, it increases the number of clinical trials, creates conditions for the development of the economy, the medical industry, invests in the professional position of the Republic of Serbia. This law reduces the ability to enter counterfeit medical resources into the Republic of Serbia's market from other markets. The law is praised by the European Commission. Mr. Minister, the SNS appreciates your efforts to comply with this law with EU standards, as well as other laws with the standards of the World Health Organization. The SNS parliamentary group unanimously voices the view that it will vote for these laws, which systematically, thoroughly and professionally elaborated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25683	Thank you. Comrade Ognjanović, you only have 42 seconds, do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25684	Dear Ministers, with fellow workers, as a member of the Health Committee, I have been given the opportunity to hear detailed explanations on every question raised about these laws. Since the SNS took the initiative and directed Serbia towards faster reforms, which are needed to join the EU, a major reform of the health system has also begun. During yesterday's session, we were able to hear the condition of the hospital centres "Laza Lazarevic", "Dragisa Misovic" and not to list, because the list is lengthy, and how many institutions have been reconstructed and built so far. Because of the great desolation of our clinical centres and other health institutions, which had left us with the previous government, which spent national money on unnecessary bridges, one of the most expensive in the world and luxurious villas of millions, Serbian citizens knew that...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25685	You are bringing the end of my colleague Ognjanovic, the parliamentary group has no more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25686	Nothing, thank you. We'll vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25687	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? Wait a minute, let me see how much time there is left. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25688	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, yesterday I had the opportunity, as authorized, in the first part of the debate to touch with you one topic, which is related to the medical law, which is the Centre for Dialysis in Vranjska Banja. You gave me one answer yesterday, I'm not sure your associates had the right information, so you gave me that answer. So, I will, now I give you feedback and ask one more question. I don't have to explain everything to you from the beginning, you know what this is about. The centre has been there for eight years, several hundred thousand euros probably cost everything that's been invested so far, not to mention the cost, as it came into being just because the centre didn't work. So, the complete equipment has been new, standing in a cellophane for eight years. I'm not sure that two licenses are a problem, to get the centre started, because two nephrologists were admitted, five medical resources were received, one technical person was admitted. All of them have been trained in the King, the head nurse has completed training in Belgrade, they all receive the salary of those eight years. I don't have anything, absolutely against these people, so someone doesn't get it wrong. My idea is just to get the center started. Even people have some extras on their salary, based on the work they do. If the problem is two licenses, and I don't think so, you're going to fix me, then you needed someone a year, two, three, five, six, seven to say -- people are the problem are two licenses, let's find that. I know that, regardless of the medical staff or the people who are in general qualified to do this job, there's always some deficit. I believe that if there are two places in the interior that are necessary for that centre to be launched, and you can tell me what those two are, I believe that it will be found very quickly, in order to create conditions. So, I repeat again, probably your associates gave you the wrong information, and I don't blame you for this situation. Two and a half years ago, when I was at your place and I brought you the paperwork, which was in one of the papers, a tabak like "Time of Death", a pile of paper like this, if you remember, your chief of staff said that he was surprised that it wasn't working, that he was going to start in a short time. I believed it was budget funds. We had two budgets then. The third budget is ahead of us. That's why I insist until it's too late, if there are any changes to be made, let's put in the budget for next year, but I think it's a big shame it doesn't work. If it's anything else, if for some other reason the state doesn't want to open it, I don't know what kind of reason it would be, then let's give that equipment to another center. That's what's going on, and we know that dialysis capacities are all over the place. I also heard a colleague say that they now find the situation easier by opening a new dialysis center. That's what I'm looking for in Vranjska Banja. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25689	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25690	To be clear, there is no political or any other problem. I care about all of us working. Those are the answers we received from the RFO, that's the reason. They were supposed to put it on their list to do so, but here, I promise you now that it will work as soon as possible and I suggest that we set up a meeting next week and that all of this is signed at that meeting, which is necessary and that we put it to work at the latest from January 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25691	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25692	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers, once again to say that we had an excellent discussion about medical laws. It shows that this ministry is very detailed and materially approaching problems and coming into contact, primarily with people seeking medical protection and supply. I was mentioned earlier, probably from a poor understanding of the context in which I was talking about the Serbian, our health system, as a system that needs to centrifugally spread its influence, the market in the environment, because we have already proven it, and it promotes only the Ministry of Health that we can provide top-quality services for appropriate sums of money and that it is really a broad branch of industry that will help this country. In that sense, I think we should continue our activities. In any case, I would like to invite you to work at this pace on the development of our health care and, as I expect, very quickly and other medical laws in this assembly, I think that these solutions will really raise the level of health care of all the citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25693	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25694	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, dear ministers, I think that what you've put forward as a bill of law, and all these explanations speak enough to support this set of laws, without reservation and in the day to vote, the Parliament Club of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants and the United Peasants' Party will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25695	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25696	We've been talking for two days, yesterday and today in this debate on medical laws, but we've gotten a little off the subject, so we've been talking about a wider health system, which I welcome, because I think the citizens expect it from us. I only wonder, now that I have heard a good number of arguments from fellow MPs from the ruling majority, and God gives me a good number of answers from Minister Loncar, do we live in the same state? I'm confused by these descriptions of our health system, which is a chakum-pakum, never better, painted, renovated, that specializations are shared, here two thousand, here four thousand, it's the most modern equipment, gamma knife, cyber knife, accelerants and other lightning. In this system, health care, where I'm being treated, aren't exactly painted ceilings and renovated. In it, when you go to make an appointment, it is explained to you that despite that examination you need another one, but you are also given a card to schedule it in a private office. When you need to have a baby, then you need to make an envelope with Euros. Now I'd like to ask – where exactly is this health care system of yours, because I'd like to withdraw the chart from this one where I'm currently being treated, and transfer it to that system of yours, because it's much, much better. By the way, this morning, a message came from our colleague, a national MP, LJupke Mihajlovska, who had a health system crash, which I'm in, and she says, "Welcome Minister Loncar and tell him that today after a gastroscopy, they told me to go to the health home on December 1st, but only 1, not another day, so that I could schedule a review for January 1st, when a doctor in my home of health will look at the results of the gastroscopy that I did today on November 16th. So, really, it's urgent for us, and not just colleagues of LJupki and me, to find out where that health system of yours is, where it's all tip-top, chakuum-pakum. Only some antivaccinal lobby has there, says co-worker Rakonjac, who is lucky to spoil. If it wasn't for him, everything else would be a mess and there wouldn't be any problem at all. So I'm worried when we're having a debate over some of the party interests, we're making the reality that we're living in. I ask you not to deny the real problems that exist in our health care. Let me refer to what Minister Loncar said, corresponding in half to the remarks of counterpart Vukadinovic, that our health system is bad, so the arguments were made. In this and such poor health system, we have transplants, the most complicated operations, cardio operations, etc. Yes, we do. We perform the most complicated operations in this system, but it is not the merit of the health system, it is the merit of doctors who are good, not thanks to the health system, but despite the health system, and it is those doctors who still, for God's sakes, who stay here because their colleagues are mass going to Norway and Germany, not because these countries love them more than their countries Serbia, but what they want to do in a regulated health system. In our health care system, our health system isn't good, it's bad. Just because we have good doctors doesn't mean the system is good. The system's bad. Minister, it's your responsibility to edit the system, and doctors will be good, whether it's a system like this or something, because people can be good in spite of us. It is the obligation of this healthcare system to be available to everyone and free of charge, as is the case with our education system, which the Constitution is also guaranteed to be free of charge. In that sense, I would also end up with another important message, which is not about these two medical laws, which is, we need free textbooks for all children of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25697	The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25698	I'd like you to listen to everything you said once again, it's very interesting. I see your great regret that people, or doctors, are not leaving anymore. Unfortunately, it's not up to you, but they decide whether to stay or leave. The system's bad, but they've become good doctors and good results. Well, how is that possible? Where they learned this, at home, and at home, they were allowed to perfect themselves, to work and to produce these results, to do all the complicated operations, interventions, etc. So, so contradictory, but I understand you, I'm guessing you're not a doctor and you don't have to understand that. So, you've heard from your colleague, here's to clarify, who's been doing a gastroscopy. She's done a gastroscopy, she's got her turn to do a gastroscopy. During the gastroscopy, one part of the result is known immediately, what macroscopically sees, the doctor tells you immediately, can tell you while doing the gastroscopy, if you're awake, to tell you what it is. But if there are any doubts or anything, so he took some slice, he must take that clip, prepare it and send it to the "PH" analysis, "PH" analysis, means pathological analysis, which minimum according to the procedures that exist to be cut, to be afraid, everything else, three weeks should be done. It's not just us, it's everywhere in the world. So, how can a man three weeks ago, until he gets his "PH" analysis back, give her a find if a slice is taken. But I'm saying, I don't blame you, you're not from that area, you don't know, and that's just fine. These are some things, procedures that apply everywhere. You want to be so little that I suggest you listen again to what you've said. (Branka Stamenkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25699	You have no right to a replica. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25700	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, first of all, to know that these gentlemen who present various truths here and the essence of their exposure are to spit, to know that they desire the bankruptcy of the health system because they have a candidate for the bankruptcy director of the health system and that these are the motives of such exposure. I will begin my presentation with the conclusion of the exposé of the previous prime minister, and the current president who said, "I believe in Serbia and I want the results to be a mark of our government's work, which we will all be proud of in this country, and those in the environment and the world appreciate and show respect for our country." I see exactly the proposal for this law as a contribution to that position, I see as a contribution to a fact that results are a criterion. As chairman of the Health and Family Committee, I can say that in recent years a basis for modern and functional health has been established. This is not my subjective assessment, but rather the analysis of serious international institutions that have done an analysis of many parameters and criteria regarding health care. So, we have progressed 12 places a few years ago and Serbia is now taking a 24th position and is in front of eight EU member states. Here, that's the answer to the critics. We'll work faster and harder and better. That's our answer. As far as the law goes, in earlier discussions, I have not heard any fundamental objections to this law. Do you think that it is a fundamental observation that the law should not be passed, or that the law should be under the auspices of the existing Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices? Of course not. I guess it's the essential thing to do in the right way, edit carefully, with careful analysis, edit and correctly define. This is what citizens expect from us, and I respect it as the chairman of the Health Committee, it is respected by members of the Serbian Progressive Party and it is respected by the people. I'd like to commend the creators of this law. They're not just people sitting here, they're invisible people from the system. I worked alone at the Ministry of Health, and I know how many people participated in all this. First of all, I would like to commend their commitment, their efforts and their work together with yours. So count on our support and let's get health care laws, these three that you've already prepared, the sooner we process and discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-16-0.u25701	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the representative of the promoter, the MP of the people, Professor Vojislav Seselj, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. )
