ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26842	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I agree that 103 MPs are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 105 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions to start work. Would one of the presidents, or authorized representatives, like to request a notice or an explanation? The word is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Ana Brnabic -- how long will the government suffer Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who is constantly causing incidents, scandals? It is not my fault that it shames the work of its ministry and shames the work of the government, but it has begun to be a great shame to apply it to the National Assembly. At one of the previous sessions, when discussing the Transport Community Act, the loan of the Chinese Bank to the Railways, the water supply loan, MPs correctly asked why it was going through an emergency procedure, when it could be done in time, the president of the National Assembly of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic informed the MPs that it was sought by Zorana Mihajlovic. Zorana Mihajlovic turned to the president of the National Assembly and told her she was lying. You know what, we MPs can think of each other. We can argue with each other, and even some ugly word to happen, and even if we get to the edge of a physical conflict, each of us has an opinion about the president of the National Assembly, sometimes he says it, sometimes he doesn't say it, etc., but the minister to act like this in the National Assembly, it's absolutely unacceptable. We need to be extremely solid to any minister to attack from a pay phone. Even when the minister is too nervous, like Vujovic yesterday, we should react and say - Minister, go have some coffee, drink something, come to yourself and then return to the National Assembly. Zorani Mihajlovic is not the first time. Zorana Mihajlovic is known as the scandal-master. It can be like that to someone with spirit, knowledge, and experience, sometimes, if so, Alexandra, but to someone who has no knowledge, no ability, no spirit, no cheek, no honesty never likes it. Funny people can only be educated people and people of honor and reputation. Bad people, uneducated people can't be funny. At that same session, as Verica Radeta spoke, Zorana Mihajlovic again served as minister for entertainment and entertainment, took out the powder and started to make up. It was expected to change and underpants here at the National Assembly session, if someone warned her that she had not done it for 10 days, for 15 days. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm saying this with all seriousness, aware that things have never happened in the National Assembly. We had a fight with the police here, so we made sure we didn't hurt each other, so it only lasted while the cameras were on. We've had all kinds of other incident situations, but if the minister behaves like this, it never could. Even the assembly majority never allowed it, especially when Zorana Mihajlovic at one point caused a crisis in relations with Russia when she asked for a review of the gas arrangement and the NIS agreement, which was actually concluded by the government of the Boris Tadic regime. She also caused problems in relations with China, when she shocked Chinese firms not to work on a big Serbian religious holiday. So, how do they work on a religious holiday?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26844	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26845	It is high time Prime Minister Brnabic thanked for his work so far, Zorana Mihajlovic, to invite her to resign, and if she does not accept it with an initiative to take a shift at the National Assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26846	Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26847	Thank you, President. The first question for you as speaker of Parliament and someone who represents each of us and the minister of police is – what has been done about the threats that have been posed for more than a week by our colleague, Marinika Tepic? Are all the measures prescribed by law? Are all those who in various ways have been heard openly for days? Their names are known to the public. Among other things, Mr Vacic is mentioned, when the SNS, who worked in the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, and other fools who are known to threaten those who advocate respect for the rights and laws in Serbia. I believe that you, as Parliament's president, should advocate that the threat to each of us is being examined, that the state authorities react without delay. If within a few hours when someone makes a threat to the President of the Republic or to a member of the Government, the police find that person, listen, how is it possible that more than seven days of a hack, and that no one, at least we haven't met, I'm asking for a notice about it, is not heard from these people? Is something supposed to happen, to make one of those threats happen, so that the state finally responds? The second question is for the Prime Minister, the building minister, as well as the police minister. It is a coffee shop at the top of Serbia, according to a text published in connection with wild construction on Kopalnik. In fact, on top of the Kopalnik, a bar is built, based on a permit for a temporary facility of 150 square meters, which can be built from a tree, somewhere from this summer there is a building of concrete that currently has more than 1,000 square meters and four levels. As it's possible that the state hasn't reacted for months not only to this wild construction on the Kopalnik, not just to all the wild constructions on the Kopalnik. We had a few days ago a statement from a man who works at the PKK who's here as we adopt laws becomes more important to me than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is what it's all about. A man says there are 1,000 wild sites in Belgrade alone. How is it possible that there are 1,000 wild construction sites without anyone in Serbia responding when we passed the law, when we are third in the world to issue construction permits, when it launched us on the Duing Business List, I don't know how many places? How can all this happen in such a Serbia? Thousands of wild construction sites in Belgrade, a few dozen in Kopalnik, and this one as a cake cream, at the top of the mountain, an object that has been issued licenses at an incredible speed, a speed exceeding even this speed from the Duing Business List. A certain investor, Snezana Mitkovic, receives all possible decisions and permits within a few weeks, but for an object to be built from a wood, an assembly type, 150 square feet. Then that facility is built for months and today it has four levels, over 1,000 squares built of concrete. What will the state do on this particular issue, but also on all these wild construction sites that do nothing in Serbia every day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26848	The word is Zoran Radojićic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26849	Thank you, Mr. President. A question for the President of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, Jovanovic -- when was the court's secretary's job contest called? On what legal basis has Ljiljana Gladovic, a retired secretary, been engaged in the same job for five years? Especially given her age, she recently turned 70. Mr Jovanovic, do you sign the decisions or do you sign the just mentioned Ljiljana Gladovic instead? Are you familiar with decisions signed by Ljiljana Gladovic? Question for Ana Brnabić – when will you propose the Law on the Investigation of the Origin of Property? The most interesting thing will be if and when this law comes into force is how many senior officials DS, SNS and drug dealers were under the impression of a lucky hand and won a week at the lottery. The answer to this question may also be given by those who painted Serbia's lottery at night, although, as far as I know, no molar has ever received more than six. A question for Justice Minister Nelu Kuburovic – in how many cases and in what cases has a defence attorney been appointed in Serbia on official duty and the defendant had his elected defence attorney in doing so? A question for the acting president of Belgrade's First Basic Court -- were some judges at the tribunal's practice in The Hague tribunal, so they put defenders on official duty even though the defendant has a lawyer? How many cases and cases have the judges of this court done so? Question for Serbian Director Zoran Babic – which building is the headquarters of Serbia's Corridor? How much is the monthly rent of these rooms? I'm asking you to deliver the lease contract to me. Also, how much is the team of Directors and Functions of Corridor in the "Terminal" restaurant? Question for Minister Ivica Dacic – What are your knowledge of the nature of the conflict and problems with Bakir Izetbegovic? Are these conflicts at Belgrade – Bakir Izetbegovic a state or private-business nature? Is there a business relationship between Bakir Izetbegovic, Fahrudin Radončić and Miroslav Miskovic? Are you familiar with Bosnia and Herzegovina's "Delta rilstite" company, which owns 50% of Miskovic's "Delta rilstite", with 25% "Avaz" by Fahrudin Radončić and "Venedi International Delize" behind which Naser Keljmendi stands? Were you present on 30 August 2012 at a meeting organised by Miroslav Miskovic in the premises of Delta, where Tomislav Nikolic, president of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, first Deputy Prime Minister, Miroslav Miskovic, Milorad Dodik, President of Republika Srpska and Fahrudin Radončić, owner of Avaza and candidate for BiH Police Minister? Is it then agreed that Dodik would give up the motion for the replacement of Zlatko Lagundzija, that BiH Security Minister Sadik Ahmetovic should be replaced and that Fahrudin Radoncic should be placed in his place, just as it was agreed at this meeting on November 22nd? As you know, Barak Obama, on June 2, 2012, marked and blacklisted Nasera Keljmendi as the main drug dealer in the Balkans and the main heroin trafficking man in Europe and requested a financial investigation against all persons associated with him, including Radončić and Miskovic. Three months later, the state summit met and business with those faces. You keep pointing out that you did not cooperate with tycoons and people close to crime, and especially is your conflict with Miroslav Miskovic, so where did this meeting come from? The same question applies to Mr. Alexander Vukic. Is this meeting directly paid by the Serbian state two million dollars to the Hilary Clinton Foundation to secure a meeting between US President Barack Obama and Serbian Prime Minister, which was discovered in the finale of the US presidential race, when the FBI opened an investigation into Hillary Clinton and when the FBI director announced 33,000 e-mails including evidence of payment from Serbia? In addition to a donation just because of the August 30th 2012 meeting, Obama didn't want to meet with the Prime Minister, or you? Finally, what went wrong, and it is clear who was not satisfied, and after three and a half months after this meeting, Miroslav Miskovic was arrested. Also, a few months later Naser Keljmendi was arrested in Kosovo, and in 2014, a famous Belgrade criminal, a witness associate, linked to Keljmendi, who is still in prison today, and charged him with realistically ridiculous acts compared to what was all involved?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26850	The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26851	First, to thank the competent institutions who mostly answer these questions of mine, so I don't ask them much, but I'm asking them specifically. I thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for answering my past question, which I have asked twice, and for the President of the Republic who has not answered. The question was important, I would say the most important issue of the state, regardless of the importance of all these other issues that are being asked and which, as I said, should have due attention. The issue of positions and relations with KIM and, in particular, last and this year, the current topic of a possible UN chair for Kosovo, which is mentioned as more and more frequently and persistently, as some kind of conditions, the latest, last in quotes, is always still some of the last conditions for Serbia's further integration process. The question was whether, under any circumstances, given one statement that could have acted as a failure, and the interim statement by the President of the Republic on the public service of the Questionnaire, that Kosovo would not enter the UN unless we were satisfied. On the other hand, Mr Dacic repeatedly claimed as foreign minister, without the addition that no chair, perhaps just a hobby or a chamois, I don't know what exact term he used. My question about the unity of foreign policy. I have received a reply from the Foreign Ministry, which is said to only quote that conclusion – that the state leadership in its activities is consistent and unique and that, given the strategic partnership, pay attention, the strategic partnership of our country with permanent members of the Security Council, the Russian Federation and of course the Republic of China, and co-ordination on a multilateral plan in order to prevent Kosovo's membership in international organisations, its membership in the organisation of the UN is not possible. In this sense, I thank you not only for the answer but also for the content of that answer, I think it is both logical and only possible. But alas, just the moment I got this answer, means the other day in the Serbian Parliament, the President of the Republic is back on TV, but on another television now in the "Cirilica" show says and declares the following -- in these conditions, there is no chance of Kosovo getting a chair in the UN for Kosovo again, in these conditions of political polarisation and the existence of a multi-polar world. Great, I said dot, and great. But, alas, there is no point, there is a point where it stands – except in the event of an agreement with Serbia where it must have something, not that it has nothing to be humiliated. So again, there is someone "but", "except", "except", "but". Not only is this clear position that has arrived from the Foreign Ministry, but also again, I stress, the relativisation by the President of the Republic, not in question, unless, I ask the Prime Minister, therefore, this question is addressed to the address of the Prime Minister, or Mrs Ana Brnabic, since she is headed by the constitution most responsible for foreign policy, that she, Madam Prime Minister, answers my question about the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards possible Kosovo membership in the UN? Is there any relativization or attitude still as firm as it should be? If we go with relativisation, if we go with it "but", "although", "maybe", it already shows you some kind of readiness and lowers our non-specific negotiating positions in the fight against unilateral recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija. This is too important a question, and in about five, ten or twenty years some offspring will not care if the deficit was 0.6 or 0.7 or 1.5%, but they will ask us what the attitude of people who could have affected the issue of Kosovo and its independence was. I would also say that I would like to join my colleague Marko Djurisic on this illegal construction at the top of Kopalnik, so I would like to ask the authorities to submit an answer to my address, these institutions of which my colleague Marko Djurisic requested an answer to the question about the construction at the top of Kopalnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26852	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26853	Thank you. I refer my first question to the president of the National Assembly, but also to all ministers in the government, and also to the prime minister, because they are also concerned and that this work and they are actively involved in this work here. In fact, it's a question that some of my colleagues have already asked on several occasions, but I think this is now becoming a burning question that really has a very negative impact on our work here. I'm not going to say it's making it impossible, but I think we've already come to this stage that he is in danger of becoming meaningless – when will the work plan of the National Assembly be brought in and adopted? I don't ask this question just because I know it's impossible to do a very serious job, and I hope, dear colleagues, that we all agree that this job of ours is extremely serious, any job is impossible to do without a good plan, and this is not about having one, two or three sessions or a session without a plan, but it's about being constantly done for a year and a half. According to the way the session is scheduled and the way these sessions are held, it simply follows as if we are in some state of emergency, because how else does it explain that the sessions are constantly scheduled within a very short period of time, that, for example, there is not enough time to surrender to supplement the agenda, that there is often no time to properly do and submit amendments to the laws? And only the working hours of the Assembly, which are scheduled to last until 18 hours, literally take place every time, I don't know if there were two or three cases in this year and a half that didn't extend. I'm not asking this because either one of us is bothered to work longer, on the contrary, but because it just doesn't know when it's going to work, because every day it's announced that it's going to work after 18 hours, and the hours end as it probably suits someone. This issue became extremely important at the moment when we received the budget and when not only the Republic of Serbia's budget, whose material has over 700 pages, was put into the same agenda 30 other laws. Since I've said many times that I've worked as a professor, this reminds me very much of a situation in which a professor would assign students to, say, last week we got this budget, so by Monday, kids, read "War and Peace," and you can't, but you also have to read "Hamlet", "Don Quixote", "Fausta", etc. I ask you, would you say it's a good professor and it's a good way to work? Can this be the case, and we are not talking about books or works of literature, we are talking about Serbia's budget, which we, dear colleagues, are all about, and I think is even more about the citizens of Serbia and more about them. I'm not sure this is the way to do it. When it comes to the state of the National Assembly and the various incidents and problems that the ruling majority is firstly complaining about, I would also like to ask another question that has been mentioned here on several occasions, but we have never received an answer to that – when will the working group begin to adopt codes of conduct for the MPs? The work of this task force is much earlier. It's been established, as far as I know, but it can't begin to work, so if you think our work here isn't good and there's a problem, I think it would be high time to do something to try to fix it. When it comes to the laws that come here in the procedure, I would draw attention to the fact that the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, Rodoljub Sabic, has warned that the Serbian government has made some proposals, which include processing personal data, determines and delivers to parliament without asking the opinion of the Commissioner. I've already said a few times that I'm very sorry that some colleagues aren't interested in things like this, they should be interested. Therefore, it does not seek the opinion of the Commissioner, although it is bound by both the Rules of Procedure and the Law. It is about laws containing a solution dealing with personal data in a way contrary to the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and the Constitution of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26854	Thank you. The word is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26855	Thank you, President. The first question I ask is that I don't already know which time, because I haven't received an answer until today, and I'm asking it to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. It concerns the amendments to the Law on the return of the seized property, i.e. the restitution, because 100,000 citizens in this country are waiting for answers and have no solutions from the Agency for Restitution. I ask Prime Minister Ana Brnabic – is he finished and when will he arrive in the assembly procedure of the amendment law, on the return of the seized property? The question concerns the same restitution, I ask Justice Minister Nela Kuburović – when and in what direction will the State Prime Minister and the Immobility Catastrophe Act go, and when will these changes also arrive in the assembly procedure? I ask the Ministry of Labour, Minister Djordjevic. On the website of the Republic Job Search Office, I found that of 1,681 job vacancies in Belgrade, so I ask Minister Djordjevic – does he think that there is only Belgrade in this country and that there are jobs in Belgrade alone? There are about 500 jobs left throughout Serbia. How will this government, as well as Minister Djordjevic, cope with decentralisation, which they keep talking about and do they think in any way to stop the exodus of our citizens into cities, especially in Belgrade, because we see that it is really 1,161 jobs, 1,100 jobs available in Belgrade? I ask the Ministry of Labour to give me precise programs that would prevent the exodus of our citizens, not only in Belgrade and in large cities, but also in the eviction of our citizens abroad. Every week we hear our citizens go to New Zealand forever, Canada, etc. So it's not just small villages, it's cities. What are our government and the Ministry doing about it? The next question is asked by the Ministry of Transport, i.e. Minister Mihajlovic and "The Ways of Serbia" -- based on which estimates and approvals have been set three times as much toll on Belgrade's highway -- Subotica. We know they're now 350 dinars, so far they've been 110 dinars, Hungarian. Why does Minister Mihajlovic say Serbia will never introduce vinjets, and the vinjets have an entire EU, that is, this whole region to whom we, too, are seeking to belong? For example, Hungary's vignette in ten days is ten euros, Slovakia for seven days 15, Romania for ten days three euros etc. If the toll is expected to increase the revenue of 80 million dinars per month, I wonder how much of that revenue the Vojvodina will receive, or how long will it stay in Vojvodina, because we are talking about the part of Belgrade – Subotica highway, so I am interested in how long will the Vojvodina stay? I ask Slavica Djukic Dejanovic the next question, as regards the new Family Support Act. We expect that the Serbian government in some way and this law correct some injustices, which have so far suffered from the payout of a pregnant woman, and we know what our birthright is, that we have not recorded such talent, has not been since World War I. So, I just don't think politics is good, according to demographics. But I'm asking. The message of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, that the problem in the cost of the pregnancy benefits has arisen because of inadequate planning of the funds of the previous management of pregnant women and their families, and that means nothing to families and pregnant women. The least pregnant women deserve is to find out who's responsible for the failure of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and whether those who made it wrong, or simply didn't allow pregnant women to get their compensation in time, will they be punished and will they respond and when will this happen?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26856	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26857	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, this is one of those days when all of us Serbian citizens are ashamed of some of the things that are happening in this country under the control of the SNS, if it's from the SNS, it's a lot. I ask the question of Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic – based on whose assessment of the threat, on which act and on whose authority does Zvonko Veseinovic, a man who has been charged and has been in prison for the most serious crimes, have police security? In fact, why is Zvonko Veselinović, a hard-working criminal, provided by the Gendarmes? Veselinovic's bell is provided by two members of the Gendarmeria branch and two members of Belgrade's Gandarmeria squad. We have names and names. We don't want to use the names and names of those people who just follow orders. I'm asking a question. The law on police is extremely clear. Article 23 of Article 5 states that Gandarmeria is commanded by the commander of the Gandarmeria with written consent or the approval of the Director of Police. Did the police director sign an order to provide criminals in Serbia? Should criminals, like Zvonko Veselinovic, sit on the defendant's benches and prisons or should our police guard them? It is also a clear member of Act 30th, which says the police minister determines which person should be guarded by the police or the Gendarmeria. Did Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic sign an order granting Zvonko Veselinovic security by members of Zandarmeria? If the police minister has signed that order, if the police director has signed that order, we're looking for the replacement of the police minister and the police director. If they didn't sign the order, then people, we have an even bigger problem. Then you don't know who's running our police force and our gendarmes. Then we have parallel systems in the police and the gendarmes, which really raises the security of the entire state as a whole. We ask as soon as possible to get an answer, because Serbia is not a country where criminals should be guarded by the police and the Gendarmeria, but a country where criminals should be in prisons. I would like to ask Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and above all, the prosecution. We have elections on December 24th in Mijonica, Kostolc, Caves and Manatun. What the prime minister did about the suit by the Democratic Party that the interim body made a decision in Mijonica, a provisional body in which a representative of the Democratic Party, who watch miracles, was not invited to participate in the work that day at the session. Forty members of the SNS received 40,000 dinars, 1,600,000 dinars of money from Serbian citizens are pumped into SNS pockets. There's a criminal record of what the D.A. and the Department of Justice are gonna do about it. In Negotina, we have an even worse situation. Four years ago in the local elections, there are also criminal charges, they voted dead. The people who were abroad voted. We ask that a democratic and civilized way be introduced before these elections, not to repeat it. We know it's not in your interest from the SNS, but we're asking the D.A. to respond. As for the Caves, there is the worst and worst situation, primarily for the citizens of the Caves, and I ask the prosecutor's office – how did Milorad Pantic, called "Luki Komerc" from the Caves, the SNS candidate for SNS municipality president, buy against the legal rule of the municipality of Pecinci, of course in which he is the government? It's SNS policy, I guess. In Ashanja, in a wonderful place where I was a few days ago, 180 acres of municipal land and how he managed to buy in Sibac, also a beautiful place in the Caves, 85 acres from himself, i.e. of the municipality wherein he is the authority. Two hundred and fifty hectares of the fertile country have been kidnapped by a candidate for the president of the "Luki Komertz" municipality from the Caves to the citizens of the Caves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26858	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26859	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the public works, the municipalities don't have agricultural land, the land is available to the state, and it can't be sold, it says in law, but colleagues obviously can't read. With that in mind, my first question is, and I got an answer from the D.A.'s office, I'm not completely satisfied. The answer is that against Radoslav Milojic and his associates, the people are known as "heineken" or "municipal mammal" to conduct a certain procedure. My next question is, why is that criminal report sticking in the D.A.'s drawer in Smederev? That's the first question. The second question is for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Culture, which refers to RTS, which I call "Radio TV N2". The Serbian Radio Television, according to the editorial policy, comes, and there is only one state with its own influence, coming into the situation to become an assistant TV "N1", at least in the way their journalists behave, editors in the information programme. This time, I ask, given that we from the state budget are giving them four billion dinars, that annual citizens of the Republic of Serbia are paying them about 40m euros, my question is whether they are business related to "Darekt Media" and Dragan Gilas, who intends to run for office, or whether Dragan Vujosevic purposefully left the series financed by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is from the budget, which is from the subscription, or the fee, whether with the intention of Dragan Vujosevic left "Darekt Media" that only fictitiously Gilas came out of that media house, left the most visible series, which was developed by the money of Serbian citizens, it looks like if I planted the orchard, everything, took the first poor harvest, first generation, and when he came to full birth, I would say – Gilas, take it all. So it's a series that citizens in the interior who pay the subscription, who have developed that show, can't watch anymore. Under number two, it is obvious that airing cable channels in Belgrade will serve as a political tool, as an improvement in Gilas's commercials in the upcoming Belgrade elections. Since the citizens financed it, our obligation as a representative of the citizens is to ask why it happened and if it was Bujosevic and his associates in RTS, whom I call "Radio TV N2", with intent to do. My third question is about that parallel security service. There has been a rumor so far, and now these findings and confessions are obvious, that in Serbia there is a yellow parallel service of security. It was whispered about, as Vojislav Seselj has known since 2000 with the famous Janjusevic, some laptop. This time we came to a confession. What will the state, security authorities, prosecutors do against Sasa Jankovic, Dragan Sutanovac and other obvious creators of the parallel security service, since they in the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 Sasa Radulovic admitted that the parallel service exists and that they are its members? In this regard, my question and what I call "Kradulović Del Boy Company", "Deli Kradojica", which is against the parasitic and party system, which at the time had all its associates in his service and from the ministry was making a party, here Pavlovic here with 113 thousand, plus wages, here is Ivan Ninić, here is Milenović, who also, according to the words, Saša Radulovic, were familiar with the knowledge he passed on to Sasa Jankovic, a people known as Sasa Prangi, that a parallel security service was founded which spys the most state bodies, parliament, MPs. With this in mind, for me and for everyone else, this service, because it was based on Davenport and our famous "friends" of the British, what will the state do because this parallel service was leaned on by agents and foreign service? I'm aware that they heard a contraction and they were changing equipment. Gentlemen, you shouldn't have changed equipment. What you've heard, you've heard the bowels of the people, which you've brought into poverty that's unsustainable to look at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26860	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26861	Thank you, President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I only have one question. Given the country's commitment to developing infrastructure, to modernise existing traffic and build entirely new, such as Corridor 11, i.e. the highway through western Serbia to the southern Adriatic, I am using the opportunity to first government and competent Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure to remind us of the City of Valjevo initiative, which is connected to the IB order of Loznica-Valjevo-Celije from Iverko to Nepričava, which connects the City of Valjevo with the highway. The current state of that part of the road from Iverk to Nestava in that length is very bad. The width of August is insufficient, the number of connections is insufficient, without protective equipment, which makes traffic seriously difficult on this part of the road. It endangers security and security and has a negative impact on the development of the entire city, the whole region, and thus the state. According to the information I have, there is an idea solution for the listed stock from Iverk to Necava in the length of 16.6 kilometers, which was built by the CIP Traffic Institute. The idea solution envisions the construction of a road by European standards with four August lanes, which would give us the speed of the highways. The installation of an idea solution would ensure the integration of the national road traffic network and the B order of Loznica-Valjevo-Lajkovac, via the section from Iverka to Nečava to the traffic system of Corridor 11. The works on this section would allow all of Western Serbia, eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina to exit to Corridor 11. Building that stock would ensure safe and secure traffic, allow faster economic development, balanced economic development, demographic and social development, and reduce travel times, transport costs, better flow of people and goods. At the end of the section of the highway from Ruma to Capca this state road will be a sort of bypass around Belgrade. I would point out that in November 2016 the City of Valjev Assembly adopted a conclusion on the adoption of an initiative to finance works on the construction of part of the road I B order Loznica-Valjevo-Celija. Starting with the fact that the City of Valjevo is not able to finance works by its own means to build this section of the road, but that there is a clear intention and determination to build it, and given the importance and importance of the stock, my question is whether there is a possibility that the Serbian Government, the competent Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure will look at all these circumstances, will look at all these facts once again, that the works on the construction of the Loznica-Valjevo-Lajkovac section from Iverka to Nepričava, I will remind once again, in the length of 16.6 kilometers, will be covered together with works on the construction of Corridor 11? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26862	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26863	Thank you. The first question goes to the Anti-Corruption Agency. There's a V.D. right now. Director. Former director Majda Krsikapa resigned at the head of the Anti-Corruption Agency on 13 November, after only two months in the post, without any explanation. The issue for the Anti-Corruption Agency is whether this resignation of 2.2m euros, which 6,789 donors, a large number of those receiving social assistance, paid SNS for the 2017 campaign? Is that a question of money laundering? How far did it go in this investigation and were the pressures made on the director to resign because she wanted to continue to question these questions of money laundering in the campaign? It's about huge money. This isn't the first time. There are similar cases in 2016 and 2014. Citizens probably know that we have some, in this case, more than 6,000 donations that are identical, by 40,000 dinars, so the question is, was the resignation actually extorted by this, or was the director, since she was pressured to break up the investigation into this case, did she resign because of the preservation of her integrity? The second question is the same for the Anti-Corruption Agency – did the Agency ask Alexander Vulin to show her 22 plane tickets to travel to Canada and back, where, according to his statement, he received 9,000 euros from his aunt, who, in his words, legally entered Serbia and paid an apartment of 200,000 euros? To make this claim true, that he was getting money from his aunt from Canada and entering into Serbia, below the reporting limit, was he asked to show these airline tickets to which he was transferring the money? The next question is for the Prime Minister. That's what I asked during the exposé, and after that, in questions she didn't answer. What does Alexander Vulin qualify as Secretary of Defense? What qualify Zorana Mihajlovic for the Ministry of Transport? What does Alexander Antic qualify as the Ministry of Energy? What qualify Milan Popovic to do innovation? When you look at their biographies, you see they have no experience in these areas, yet they are placed in the post of ministers. We expect the Prime Minister to respect the legal obligation and to answer these questions. Then I ask the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic. So far, in the last year and a half, we have asked her a question 24 times from a congregation pay phone. She has an obligation under the law and by the Rules of Procedure to answer any question she has been asked in writing within 15 days. She never answered those questions once. So that the citizens can see when the MP asks a question the professional service beats him and it is headed in this case by the president of the National Assembly and we do not have a single answer 24 times. Why does the President of the Assembly constantly violate the law and the rules, not respect the Rules of Procedure, not answer the question of MPs? Any vote by the ruling majority in this assembly goes to the bells, or the speaker of the assembly presses the bells when the ruling majority should vote yes and then vote yes. You can see this in all the videos. The question for the President of the Assembly is why is he doing this and doesn't he think this demeans the dignity of the National Assembly? The next question goes to the President of the Republic. So far, we have asked him 33 times different questions from different areas, and he has not answered one single time. Does he think that by not respecting the law and the rules and not responding to MPs, he sends a bad signal to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the rules for some people do not apply? Then, a question for him, there is a provision in the Constitution that says – banning conflicts of interest and that no one can perform a state or public function that conflicts with its other functions, business or private interests. The president of the Republic is also the president of the SNS, so the question for him -- when he is visiting on TV and talking about the opposition, attacking opposition politicians, is he talking about the elections of Belgrade, does he violate his constitutional obligation to represent all citizens, that he cannot attack the opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26864	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go, colleague Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26865	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, my question today will be addressed to the Ministry of Justice and Minister Nelli Kuburovic and the Ministry of Interior and Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. At a session of the National Assembly, my esteemed DS counterpart again tried to deceive Serbian citizens by spinning and delivering semi-information. Namely, she said 340 lawsuits were filed against the town of Novi Sad over what she says is the asphalting of the citizens' yard and that it is the haughtiness of Mayor Milos Vučevic, which is why the city will have to pay big money. But what she's not saying is that over 80% of the lawsuits related to this asphaltation are precisely the ones that came from their time, so before 2012, and some are even from the '70s. She didn't say how it was paved in their time, because the DS gentlemen did it without any consent from the owners of the parcels they had paved. Now, that's bravado. That's why today we reap what the receptive mayor of DS Pavlicic has sown. But not only that, the highlight of haughtiness is what and when they work, for example. The sewers, they were doing the same without consent, so when we took over the government in 2012, we came to the situation that four construction permits had fallen, so the citizens had to wait for months to finish their sewers because of such haughtiness of the DS. Thank God the SNS, headed by Milos Vučević, took over power in Novi Sad in 2012, and we are not ashamed of making citizens tens of miles of roads and tens of kilometers of sewerage the most in suburban cities, where people who have been punished by the DS live because they did not support it. We built four wastewater purifiers, worth as much as 643 million dinars, which allowed the sewerage network to function in Stepanović, Begec, Kovil and Romanians. The city of Novi Sad is the future European capital of culture, the European capital of youth. Today in Novi Sad we have a new industrial zone with Lere and Delfaem, with over 3,000 new jobs. We're finishing up a new emergency building and a music-ball school. That's why it's a shame when someone from the yellow company here in the Assembly puts it in Mayor Vukevic's mouth, thanks to whom this was all done. It is a shame when Mayor Vučevic is called precisely by those who are to be ashamed because they murmured while senior DS officials have implemented the "left hand - right pocket" policy, those who have mumbled while over 40m euros have been stolen from the Development Bank, those who have murmured while children with special needs for the construction of the Heterland Castle have stolen over a million euros. It is a shame when Mayor Vučevic is called by those who have been lurking at the boulevard of Europe, because there, among other things, they have paved people over plots without their consent. But not only that, it wasn't enough, but a senior DS official gave a warrant to transfer 600 million dinars to an advance contractor, justifying only 137 million dinars, and over 450 million dinars went missing in some pockets. That is why I think it is very important for citizens to know at what stage the criminal procedure for abuses in the construction of the Boulevard of Europe and for how much money the citizens are damaged in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26866	Thank you. We're going back to work. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26867	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm known for my quick reading, for my quick reading, for reading light speed, but I haven't been able to read all this yet. If I go to The Hague again, I will take the reading there, and later I will make my remarks to Minister Vujovic. We've got to discuss 31 points of the agenda as if it were a single one. So if I say "grandmother" for one point on the agenda, I have to tell the frog right away, so he doesn't drop the other one, and so on and so forth, that I can say everything I had in 20 minutes. We are again passing the Budget Law for next year without having a final budget account for 2016. The minister is personally responsible for this final account, because without that final account we, Minister Vujovic, don't know how you do business. Maybe you paint us, maybe you make fools of us, boast of the budget surplus. We don't see where that surplus is, how you created it, whether you were pretty and smart, so it happened to you, or by chance you were successful, or you got away from it, you got caught, etc. These are very serious things. I'm kidding. If you've had a surplus of nearly 60 billion this year, then how do you predict the deficit for next year? Are he minimal, small compared to the current one, but what's the deficit for anyway? I guess you're staying. Well, we expect you to be even more successful. Give us a balanced budget. That's about 0.6% difference. You're only in deficit 0.6%. You can give us a balanced budget in no time. Cut it off somewhere. It's not hard. There are still these budget users, parasites, who insist on state spending without having any purpose to exist. You gave us a textbook here on the budget for the current year, from which we can learn little. I can only point to a few weaknesses. For example, why isn't there anything on the revenue side of the budget that you're planning to get from the NBS business? You do not mention the NBS at all from the budget, and it is obliged from its profit 70% to direct Serbia's budget. The National Bank of Serbia doesn't seem to be in control here. She is absolutely independent in conducting monetary policy, but she must not be an evil spirit who will jump out of the magic lamp every time he wants to, and no one can. You have to control what pay is received and whether they are doing the right thing, by law and all. You're making the budget again without passing the pay grade law. In fact, you're here in one legal project very much dealing with this issue at the level of local self-government, but you don't have, you're one trust brain, the whole government, you don't have a man capable of making that pay grade law. Why? Because you can't touch party personnel that are formally on the functions below you, who have higher salaries than you. You have about 1000 euros' wages, some less than that, and you have government officials in your labour sector who have a much higher salary than yours. How is that possible? It's only possible in the country of Neverland and in the state of Serbia. It's the only two entities in the whole world where possible. You here are not able, therefore, to present a projection of the future income of the National Bank, and probably not entirely your fault, except you dare not deal with the governor, because you, like us, have not received any reports from the National Bank in two years. Maybe you did secretly have some reports at the night sessions. We didn't have any public or secret. The National Bank is out of control. The governor only boasts about new hairstyles, she has luxury supplies for her employees, she has all kinds of other requirements, and as she does business, no one knows. The fact that the dinar is relatively stable is not difficult to achieve. That's what every one of you knows how to do, isn't it? You wouldn't be as good as me, but you'd be solid. She doesn't have any success here, actually. It's enough not to print money without a cover and the dinar is immediately solid. He's seemingly solid, because he can only have real strength when we have a strong economy. Even this isn't a smart move that makes the dinar appear to be stronger. It was supposed to be stopped by about 120 dinars for one euro, because the next one can be very dangerous. When it starts to fall, it's going much faster than we should allow. This is a luxury that the National Bank has allowed itself to present itself capable and nothing more. This is actually devastating for our exports. From this strong, under quotes, the dinar's benefits are only imported. From the aspect of the government's economic policy, it's also not good. When are you going to make the pay grade law? Never. We'll probably have to wait for the next government, our radical government, more capable, smarter. We are radical Democrats. They're radicals by definition, radical Democrats, not dodgy. Those other democracies came from radical apostates, and that's why they're in my word now. You know, radicals had before their apostates called themselves independent radicals, in the end, under Davidovic, Democrats. So our apostates started with DS, so they moved on afterwards. Zivkovic wasn't our apostate. I have to point out right now. That's how we never fell. Come on, guys, what else am I supposed to do when I get this and talk about this? What else am I supposed to do than make a joke? How do you talk about this? You've got a lot of unsuspecting items in this budget. Tomislav Nikolic did not want to move out of the state residence. Who runs this state residence? Government. The government has its own service, it used to be called the Property Directorate, whether it's still called it, and it had to move Tomislav Nikolic out for 15 days if he didn't move out on his own. You are all guilty of not evicting it, which huge state money is spent on maintaining that villa, although it has countless apartments in both Belgrade and the tower in the sky and on the ground in Bajcetina, etc. You gave him some more made-up semi-ministry. It is not technically the ministry, but the Agency, as it is called, Natasha, the Office, even lower than the agency, for co-operation, to co-ordinate co-operation with Russia and China. The office is actually above the ministry's ranks, because its members are individual ministers, so who responds to the session comes. He who cheats and comes, then hits himself in the head for leaving. There are smarter ones, I guess, who don't go to those sessions at all, who just go deaf. It's a office that doesn't do anything, and you, Minister, have thrown 50 million dinars like this. Like this, like confetti being thrown away for New Year's or at weddings. For you there are 50 million dinars of confetti that you throw at a single moment to satisfy someone's vanity or that Tomislav Nikolic would not accidentally form a new party, so that it would crush your accounts. There's no way he's forming a new party. Too short, his thefts are too popular for him to form a new party. Stop that funding, save that 50 million. I see some cultural items here. Which side is that, Natasha? That's the 147th page. You've predicted less money there for the Serbian Matica than for the resident Castle complex on Dedinj. Here's what you've done. The residential Castle Complex should finance itself, from tickets, from programs organised there, from renting a hall for various purposes, etc. I don't mind having the Karadjordjevic family live in one part of the complex. We are against the monarchy, absolutely against the monarchy, but we are not for leaving the family of Karadjordjevic on the street. It's a huge complex and it's supposed to bring income, so if you don't know a better way to make your income, plant a topola, the heat is growing faster, sell a tree to a factory, and you've cut off the paper factories. That's what made the dosmania before you. So you don't know how to make that castle complex, and you should know. Come on when you don't know, then close it, forget it, and don't give it 10 million dinars more than the Mother of Serbia. The queen of Serbia is our name and last name. She's too late for sana. She kept our national identity at the most critical times. It continues to have very important work programmes, functions, publishing activities, the magazine "The Mother of Serbia", etc. In the last budget, you had more money allocated to "Exit" than to the Matica Serbian, and "Exit" is financed by the Serbian Parliament with the budget, the Vojvodina budget, the New Sad city budget. It is now more important to gather white-world drug addicts for several days than to finance the entire work of the Serbian Mother. A hundred years of association was organised by the Serbian Mother, as far as I know. Is that right? Furthermore, on the one hand, the regime's media are full of accusations of the "yellow Buket" and television that he practically privatised. On the other hand, you set aside huge money, four billion dinars for public media service operations, and another for project financing a billion, five billion. We're close to this point where you can balance the budget. What's that for? You can't run state television, and you're giving her huge money, under the pretext that it's a public service. It's not a public service, it's a public house, because there's a "yellow Buke" who pays people outright, and there's a Ljotician woman like Olivera Kovacevic who leads the main policy there. Ontological lollipop. Her grandfather was still a prominent man, and that's how she behaves. He runs anti-Serbian politics. She hasn't taken the Kragujean students to the shooting yet, but who knows, God forbid she gets a chance. Every Ljutician is able to do it as soon as he has a chance. And once they shoot, they're always ready to shoot their people, Serbian poor and high school students. Furthermore, you here within the information system are again scheduled to finance the media. On the one hand, the law prohibits the state from owning the media. In my opinion, there had to be exceptions, to the state television, the state radio and the news house "Politics" and to continue to be state-owned so that it was managed by a multilateral board of directors and that there was some balance of influence. We've had this before. It didn't work well, but it worked, and now nothing works. When we look at who you're giving that money to, because there's what the government gives, but what local self-government and the city of Belgrade are hidden. Huge money is given to the media. It's supposed to be the competitions. It happens to us when the ministries call for competitions to finance NGOs, to launch a competition first, and then register a non-governmental organisation that registers for competition and asks for money and even gets money. Now we've got cases of Internet portal financing, so we've got a paramedic. Do you know how much money it takes to form an Internet portal? Zero money. And then you report to the competition and you give the money. You don't always give money. You have some of your criteria for giving money, so someone gets a lot, someone takes care of it just as much as he needs, and someone gets nothing. To be righteous, you must put an end to it. Here's another way to balance the budget. It's a good thing you're raising funds for the salaries of soldiers and police officers. Of course, these salaries can be installed in paid classes, with these persons exposed to additional dangers, so the persons carrying the weapons, who have special powers, having one coefficient that does not have the others and that is to be dealt with very solidly, just needs a little goodwill. Nobody thinks about it either. You have cases where the authorities finance unions, and one of them finance, the other don't finance. At the local self-government again, someone gives the money the way he wants it. We have a whole series of abuses, and it seems that the budget inspection doesn't work at all, because for our budget inspection, it wouldn't be possible for Zorana Mihajlovic to buy our underwear at the most expensive store in New York with a state-owned credit card, and only when the media has taken a shit then she's making up for that money. If he is, we don't know that either. We haven't been shown through the budget, and we wish it had. So even though you've worked hard to hide a lot of things from this budget, you failed, Minister Vujovic. This session of the Assembly has prevented a thorough debate on the budget. Each of these accompanying laws, some of them really are following and some have nothing to do with the budget, deserve a special debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26868	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26869	I will try briefly to answer some specific questions and I will ask my fellow ministers to answer the questions you have sounded here in the area of their competence. First, let me just read some facts and dates for a little while. There are clearly defined rights and obligations in the budget process, the responsibilities of all organisations and all participants. We have submitted reports on the implementation of the budget and we submit each year within the deadlines prescribed. We – referring to the Ministry of Finance. On the basis of the proposal, a detailed proposal for the implementation of the budget drawn up by the Treasury, based on the data contained in a well-protected electronic organised system, we draw up documents that carry all the information on the receipts and expenditures of the budget, revenue and expenditure, and we approve it at the Ministry of Finance and forward it further to two places, one is information to the Serbian Government, and the other is the DRI that controls it. The next step in this process is when the DRI submits a report of objections to its objections and grudges where there are many things that can't be solved so easily because they combine real reporting with methodological problems, the type of treatment of course differences that were huge over the past years, and have created a huge doubt, to how certain short-term duties are treated, where there is also a gap between attitudes, not entering technical details, they submit their report, which, together with our report, goes to the government, to formal adoption and sending to parliament. I'll just say the dates when we did our part of the job. We brought our report for 2015 and referred it to the Government for consideration, which was 19 August 2016, seven, eight days after the formation of the Government on 11 August of that year, you know that the government was a technical government and could not adopt it until 11 August 2016. We sent that document to the government a week after the government was formed. The DRI report came back a little later. The text was amended, respecting DRI's remarks, and was sent on December 7th last year. I suggest you file a letter to the government to tell you what the status of this document is. It's best to file a request in writing. As for the final one for 2016, we submitted a report on 2 August 2017 as the government was formed in late June and after a month we submitted that report and the state of the report would also be good to ask a parliamentary question in writing to be officially answered by the Government. As for the deficit, I have to spend two minutes to explain the situation. We formed a deficit at 1.7% of GDP last year including project financing. We systematically extended the scope of the republican budget over several years and so on. moved most of those items that the international methodology allows us above the line, to see everything. A lot of these transactions have been pushed under the line before where it doesn't know exactly what's going on. Everything is treated like a debt. So the first step was to eliminate the risk of funding liquidity with state guarantees, to move all transactions that could be moved above the line and to extend the budget coverage to project financing. Last year, with project financing, the planned deficit was 1.7% of GDP. In the middle of the year, it was revised to 1.1% for better budget implementation of the plan and that 1.1% of the planned deficit, that's the figure we quote yesterday when I was talking about the budget, the planned deficit was about 50 billion at this point in late November, and we're achieving a surplus of around 74 billion republican budget and our estimate is about 15.16 billion of these other things including a place that doesn't enter the republican budget. That's the surplus you're talking about, and you're absolutely right there. How does this surplus affect the deficit planning next year? In the current year, the achievement depends not only on regular income and expenditure, but also on extraordinary income and expenditure. Among other things, the National Bank, which you mention, paid significant funds at the end of March of the month that were achieved from the regular work of the National Bank, including exchange rates, but including the reimbursement of funds, i.e. the acquisition of the National Bank, which was carried out on the basis of the resolution of certain bankruptcy procedures conducted by the Deposit Insurance Agency and on the basis of a whole series of other transactions where the National Bank was appointed by this Assembly to manage these matters in the name and for the government's account. So, they settled it neatly in their profits and paid it, I can't tell you the exact date, you can ask them to find out, at the end of March of this year. Therefore, it entered our extraordinary incomes, and it entered their profits from last year. To be precise, the National Bank is an independent institution as defined by the law and you're absolutely right, it is independent in monetary policymaking, but responsible for the results of that monetary policy. The part less familiar to the public, which is very important, which is what the Board of Governors decides and how the National Bank behaves and there are points from one to 14 that define it. Those things you mentioned were right there. So, it makes the statutes on the proposal of the Bank's Executive Board, determines the dinar course regime, makes a very important strategy for foreign reserve management, decides on membership in international and financial organisations, institutions where the NBS is a direct representative of Serbia, makes a financial plan of the bank, and that is what you mentioned, adopts the annual financial reports of the NBS. So, MPs I think have the right to request these financial reports, so they bring in the plan and bring in a report on the plan. He's making a selection of executives in the NBS organisational unit after internal audit. So there's an internal audit and they're doing it, they're making a choice of people, they're making an external auditor's choice, so they have an external auditor and they have to name him who's doing the review of those reports. Just like we're giving our final bill to the DRI, which is so-called. in international standards of ‘suprim modet institutions’. to us that State Audit Institution. They're doing a review of those reports. They discuss the external auditor's report, monitor the financial reporting system, risk management, internal control of the NBS and assess whether accounting policies and procedures have been adopted, as appropriate adopted in the NBS, adopts the annual plan, conducts internal audits, conducts internal control, slightly shortens, brings about a strategy for NBS development. So it's all written. I don't know exactly, since they are independent, in which form of these reports should be available and delivered to you, it would be good to refer the question. It's a legitimate question in which you can be informed about work. I can tell you the part where they show profits, they deliver profits to us. Why isn't that in the budget? In previous years, we've put this on, and then there's been a sharp criticism that we can't know in advance, so we're treating it the same way as all the other extraordinary incomes and expenditures, so that's not tax revenues, and that's what we get, and we have very conservative, even though this year and last year we've achieved significant incomes, not tax revenues from the work of all those organisations including the NBS that make the profits, we don't plan on doing it in the budget, so we don't artificially create bigger revenues and thus greater appetites, but we regularly record it. Therefore, everything they and the NBS and all other public enterprises accomplish, we record and report. So there shouldn't be any secrets. I suggest that Minister Ruzic respond more precisely to the salaries. I can only say in general, we have been trying for two years to create a system of wages that will be transparent, responsible and offer the ability to manage personnel. Remember when we passed the Law on Restricting Employment in the Public Sector in December 2013, then one of the key conditions was to pass laws within two years, i.e. to stop the rough organisation of employment and to move on to defined employment, which will be in function and pay and employment. We haven't done that yet. So we're still up to it. Some laws will be in this bloc now in December, and some laws may be later. I suggest that Minister Ruzic explain it in more detail. As for all the other elements in the budget, the details of the office you mentioned will be found on page 67. It's on a proposal adopted by us. We adopted where we thought it was justified, there are salaries more than 50%, almost 60%. The comparison between, better the culture minister will respond to the comparison of individual allocations in the culture ministry's budget, just pay attention that they are called cultures and information. We have some obligations to standards in Europe, whether or not this and how it is realized, it is a matter of special discussion. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26870	Thank you. First the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then the replica of Dr. Seselj. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26871	I thank the chairman. You have injured a member of the 107th National Assembly and the 106th speaker can only speak of the agenda point. Since you, Mr. Chairman, are the deputy member of the Finance Committee, you should have informed the public, and I think, because of the Minister's information, that according to the NBS Act, according to the Constitution, according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, it is necessary to deliver by 30 June all parliamentary groups their work reports and that we discussed on the Committee on Finance in July all the 14 points that are the subject of the NBS work for the previous year. Members of all parliamentary groups have the right to come to that committee. On the other hand, the injury is that the chairman did not adequately respond to such an attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26872	Thank you, colleague Tomic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. For the sake of all the MPs and the public, I'm here as a speaker and I have the only option to get down on the bench and explain what you just said and suggested. That's impossible right now. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The right to replica has Dr Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26873	We didn't even get the NBS monetary policy plan, never in these two years, and I hope that soon it comes to the NBS's business agenda, so we'll have a chance to discuss it. I would only answer to Minister Vujovic here. I'm glad you're joining my criticism of the government why the government didn't file a budget spending report last year, or a fiscal report for last year, the final budget account. Looks like your ministry did everything it took, and when the government just needed a little more step to take and send it, the government didn't send it. However, ministers, there is one principle in parliamentary democracy. The principle of continuity of power. You as the Ministry of Finance and the government as a whole are responsible for all the obligations of the previous governments. If no government has submitted a financial report since 2003, then you must submit all these reports and say why they are not and be a convincing criticism of their work, of your work. For the National Assembly there is no change in the continuity of the government. You're changing party after election. One party wins the election, the other loses and you change personally between the elections, but for the National Assembly there is a government in continuity. So you have to file reports in 14 years. Furthermore, in March, the National Bank paid a significant sum of money. On the basis of the fact that the NBS paid in March, you could have created a budget income item, so to say, if she paid that much in March of this year, you expect as much next year, something less or more. Or take an average, say, for the past four years, and say the average was that big, so we plan on you paying us that much this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26874	Thanks, time. The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26875	Thank you. Just a few brief references to some of the observations we've heard. So, when it comes to the Serbian Matica, there is an undivided consensus on the importance of both the historical and cultural Mother of Serbia. So the Ministry of Culture and Information fully supports that view of things. It is common, that Matica is one of the fundamental institutions of Serbian culture, history, tradition and identity. Also, I am free to realize that in some past period, not to mention all the years now, the help of the Serbian Matika was smaller and some of her interests were neglected, but it is undoubtedly one of the institutions of this people's cultural core. With that in mind, I'd only draw attention to the data of the budget guy. In 2016, 35 million were foreseen to assist the work of the Mother of Serbia, which is 2016. In this year 2017, it is 45 million and with a budget for 2018 56 million. So we have one clear trend of growth in 2016, 2017 and 2018 35, 45 and 56. In addition, the Serbian Matica in the competitions for co-financing of projects in culture receives additional assistance for project financing, so that we, within the limits of this budget and these financial circumstances, are making a significant contribution to the financial business and other programming activities of the Mother of Serbia. We will continue to do so, and we will try to make this trend of budgetary growth for business separation of the Serbian Matica continues to grow at this pace, perhaps at a higher rate, but this pace of 35, 45 and 56 is a very significant step. Now, if we compare it to other things, it's not things to direct comparison. The Castle complex is of exceptional cultural importance, historical, identity also, there are masterpieces of art domestic and foreign, there are canvass of Pusena, Kanaleta, sculpture of Meštrović, etc. We believe that this complex, and also this sum that is now being allocated, is smaller than the amounts that were made in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, those amounts were 120 million and 100 million and 80 million. There's a minimum there, a word to a huge complex that requires investment maintenance, of course, and the preservation of these works of art, some of which are masterpieces. But you're right if you're stressing the possibility that the very principle of working the court complex itself in a few changes and that it has some more significant maybe independent incomes, but we're going to try, things are for this, we can do some other time more detail about it, but things are in a few more complicated, but it's available and possible. We will also try to take this proposal into account and to see in the given circumstances whether there are additional potentials for one tourism and commercial enriching, i.e. an increase in income, but we cannot give less than this, because somewhere on that border is the very limit of maintaining a common complex in an even decent state. When it comes to public service, four billion, the story is not new. However, I only point to one circumstance that is very important, which should be kept in mind. When the public service is collected directly from the budget, then also from citizens through other means of funding and from independent revenues through marketing, the sum is moving slightly below 80m euros annually, somewhere between 75m and 77m, not to go too far, under 80m euros. If we compare it with the public service of Croatia, it is, on the other hand, through a subscription that is saddened, etc., making about 220m euros in annual revenues, the public sector of Croatia. Malena Slovenija, which is four times smaller than Serbia, separates about 120m euros for public service, means 50% more than Serbia. It's a matter of funding public service. From the corner of the Ministry of Culture, in the culture work, we are relatively satisfied with the role that public service performs in this regard. The third digital channel provides quality cultural content. There is a cultural journal on the first program, which is broadcast in the sky, though, when most people sleep and we point to it and we are not satisfied with that solution. But it is, however, one body of cultural programs that is relatively satisfactory, especially if compared to other televisions and others that have a national frequency. As far as editorial policy is concerned, the Ministry of Culture and Information is not in a position, as you know, to deal with these matters. We have an opinion on this, but we are in a formal position to show it this way and this occasion. Anyway, we have to go stateside and see what we can do with the public service. He's necessary, that's one, that's the opinion of the Ministry of Culture and Information and my own. I think we should finance it further. Who will manage these funds and in what way, is another question that comes out of our jurisdiction in some way. So much for getting started.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26876	Thank you, Minister Vukosavljevic. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. ) Dr. Seselj, do you want the replica or Mr. Ružić to respond immediately? Vojislav Seselj: Now. ) Right on line, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26877	Minister, I would agree with some parts of your answer. However, there are some things that simply stick their eyes out and cannot be ignored. You're comparing our so-called so-called. public service with Slovenian or Croatian television. Slovenian and Croatian television are extremely national TV, and our TV has anti-Serbian software content. Here in its most significant shows, Serbia is found guilty of both the wars fought in the Balkans and the consequences of these wars. That's where people are brought by the criteria of the CEO who's all-powerful. There's no telling who's in charge or how he's in charge. She pretends to be run by certain organs, but those organs are not responsible to anyone. As for the Serbian Mother, look when she compares to the level of funding with the Exit. The exit lasts only three days. Exit is a private firm and gets huge money, 35 million from the Republic's budget, from the Vojvodina budget, Milorad, 15, 20 million, then gets out of the New Sad city budget, that's over 50 million. It's a huge sum in three days. What social value does that bring? That only brings drugs. You've got a drug agency here, so far I thought the police were the only anti-drug agency. Now I see there's a government agency. I don't know, there were some drug addicts in the past, but as soon as I found out, I'd let the public know. What's the government doing with that agency? He's got the police, he's got to go after the junkies.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26878	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26879	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would really briefly like to point out some of the elements of these four laws, which the honourable MP, Dr Vojislav Seselj, had elaborated a little earlier. So this is about a series of important newspapers and promotions that are being introduced into the field of equal status of public service employees. It's a public sector wage system. As we know, the public administration reform strategy simply seeks to reach a system of working relations that will be sustainable. I would not agree that paying classes can only exist in the country of Neverland and the Republic of Serbia, because it then puts the country's relations in an egality with the Republic of Serbia. These laws lay down practically payment classes and coefficients in the public sector, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, and examples, as set out in the proposed legislative solutions, are delayed until 2012, as it is linked to the next budgetary cycle to prepare, of course, the budgets of the Republic and the units of local self-government and, of course, to prepare all public sector employers for these changes. Also, after these laws, since this is only one part of the law on the reform of the wage system, it is necessary to prepare sublaws after the adoption of these laws, if adoption in this high home occurs, in order to enforce the law and to analyse the financial effects in the process of establishing a new single basis. So what might be a populist positive, but I don't think it's real and it's not correct, we can't promise that reform overnight. The reform has been carried out for a long time and I think that paying classes, paying groups will be just one of the epilogues of this wage reform. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26880	First, let's give the word to Minister Ljajic and you'll get a replica. (Vojislav Seselj: How will I respond to two ministers in two minutes? Let's hear it from Minister Ljajic. Here you go. (Vojislav Seselj: It is my right to answer Minister Ruzić, perhaps I will not want Ljajic. Wait, Dr. Seselj, I gave my word to Minister Ljajic. You'll get a replica and you'll answer. (Vojislav Seselj: How will I respond in two minutes to three ministers?) I have no doubt that you will succeed in two minutes to do so. Here you go, Dr. Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26881	Mr. Seselj also mentioned "Exit" last year and the funds allocated from the budget for its maintenance and the figures are, of course, correct. However, "Exit" and "Exit" maintenance is pure investment, good investment, much more than cost. For the simple reason that last year we had about 215,000 visitors on the "Exit". It is not the most numerous event to be held, numerous are the "Leskovačka Grydijad", the number is also the "Guca", but it is by foreign exchange inflow and by the number of foreign tourists in the first place. About 14.4m euros were included last year. The state's net income on behalf of the collected VAT is between 2.5m and 300,000 euros. If that's what you mean, then you'll actually see that all of this is much less than the revenue that's being made. Not to mention the indirect benefits of "Exit" in terms of branding Serbia, where it has been declared as the most significant musical event in this part of Europe since CNN 2016, more precisely among 10 events. Not to mention the image created thanks to the "Exit", because from 60 countries we have visitors during the "Exit" period, that average one visitor spends 431 euros. It is, therefore, all the benefits from maintaining this event. (Vojislav Seselj: Shall I wait for another five or six ministers? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26882	No, you have a replica. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26883	I got two or four minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26884	Two minutes in the Rules of Procedure. I wish I had four, but I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26885	Mr. Ljajic, "Drinska regatta", "Guca", "Leskovačka Grirajada" and other many public events, organised in Serbia, have huge tourist significance, but are obliged to bar local self-government assemblies to submit a financial report, especially a report on state funds that they spent. Exit has never submitted a financial report to anyone. The New Sad Assembly has obliged him to file that report and has never received it, and you are still chasing for the money to be loaded there. You don't know how money is spent? There are those of us who know, but we won't tell you. You do your own research. I've already said it's a drug deal, that Exit. There are so many drugs that the entire Balkans are at risk. What I was about to say to Minister Ruzic, you didn't understand me, Minister, but there are no paying classes in our country and nowhere else. And what you've gone wrong to create isn't a smart move. You need to look for a uniquely complex solution for the whole country, and you're starting with local self-government, so you're going to go like this, over there. In the end, we'll be in chaos again. It should be known, if the state has civil servants, there is a special kind of right called - civil law. The Communists have abolished it in our country. We didn't teach civil law at university. I taught him a little by professor. Lie to Kostic. When you've developed a criminal right, you have rank. The name of the clerk comes from the name of the rank. Those acts are divided into, say, 20 classes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26886	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26887	Give the other two minutes to explain to Minister Ruzic, he'll be useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26888	Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26889	And now, a class member, V class, has the same status in the state administration in Belgrade and local self-government in Leskovac, or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26890	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26891	He's a member of that and that class, and you can't do it this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26892	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26893	Did you cut my power?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26894	No, I didn't turn it off.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26895	Almost three minutes to win.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26896	That's exactly why. Thanks for the discussion. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26897	Thank you. Dear President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I explain why SVM MPs will vote in favour of the 2018 draft budget and why we do not have an amendment to this proposal this time, I must stress that the policy, criteria and standards of the transfer of appropriations to the AP Vojvodina require a solution to the previous issues. In fact, the Budgetary System Act taxively states which public income and income belong to the AP Vojvodina budget, but is not regulated how the Vojvodinas belong to the original incomes provided from taxes and other incomes. These are all issues which, of course, need to be settled by the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on Jurisdiction, because, unfortunately, we are currently in a situation that the AP Vojvodina cannot do some of its responsibilities uninterruptedly because of its lack of funds or lack of sufficient funds for the same. The logic therefore requires that the Law on Jurisdiction be amended jointly and the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina be adopted. We hope it will happen in the foreseeable future. As I announced, SVM MPs will support the 2018 draft budget, as well as all other accompanying financial laws, because we believe that moderate fiscal consolidation measures encourage growth and job creation, notably by discharging the economy and by increasing the untaxable part of the profit. Also, a stable growth of foreign direct investment, with the reform of the education system, support for social entrepreneurship and raising the minimum labour price, we support all this because it contributes to economic development, poverty reduction and even regional development. As we discuss even regional development, we believe that an extremely significant measure of change in the Law on the budgetary system relating to the introduction of revenue is an important measure. So, the addition that new sources of public revenue for the competences of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government are now EU financial assistance. So far, EU financial assistance has not entered the sources of funding for the competences of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, and this is extremely significant, as the proposed solutions will facilitate not only functioning, but will ensure long-term, stable and predictable planning of larger investments, as we all know that local self-government often has problems providing its own resources. I would like to taxfully highlight some of the proposed budget solutions for 2018. For us SVM MPs, it is extremely important that this budget has almost the same number of projects as last year's ones included in the category of capital investments, that in the budget of the Republic of Serbia it is defined to continue the implementation of the project of adaptation, reconstruction and addition of the National Theatre in Subotica this time 166.9 million dinars. Let me remind you that last year it was 111,000,000. During the following 2018, it is planned to complete work on the facade and roof of the National Theatre in Subotica, so that it could then work on the interior of a new part of the building. Of course, Ipsilon Krak, for us it is important that 800,000 dinars have been identified through capital investment through the construction of the E75 highway, the Kelebia section – the "Subotica – South" or Ipsilon Krak, which is actually 2.5 times more than last year – 300,000. It's supposed to be a billion dinars for 2019. We have discussed here several times that for the citizens of Subotica, Ipsilon is of paramount importance, because it is in fact the goal of removing the freight traffic of the center of Subotica and connecting the northern part of the Corridor 10 highway to the border crossing of Kelebija. We are extremely pleased that the years-long efforts of our parliamentary groups and our MPs to work on the National Minorities Budget Fund have finally produced results. For 2018, a budget fund for national minorities provides for 21.8 million dinars. We advocate that the budget fund actually be the same amount of funds as is intended for the functioning of the national councils of national minorities, for their funding. I'll remind you, for 2018 it's 248.000,000 dinars. This amount is still, unfortunately, much smaller, 21.8 million is ten times less than 248.000,000, but still 12 times more than 1.8 million, as unfortunately so far in the previous few years has been foreseen in the National Minority Budget Fund. Otherwise, when it comes to the transfers of AP Vojvodina, they amount to 65.6 billion dinars, transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget 42 billion and funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which are directed on the territory of the AP Vojvodina 23.4 billion. We believe that it is extremely important to continue or end the extremely important capital projects that have started, which are funded or co-financed from the Republic's budget in the Vojvodina territory. To mention just a few more amounts of the budget of AP Vojvodina – realisation of the project between the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and AP Vojvodina 268 million dinars, construction of the "Zeželjevo Bridge" 790 million, support for the work of Park "Palić" d.o.o. Ten million dinars. When we look at the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2018, capital investments in Vojvodina – fast traffic station Novi Sad-Ruma 50 million, Science and Technology Park in Novi Sad 200 million dinars, and 654 million dinars and reconstruction of the city stadium in Subotica 67.2 million dinars were planned for 2019. In particular, we point to the fact that for the 2018 Hungarian-Serbian railway project, an allocation of 8 billion dinars is envisaged, almost ten times more than 850 million, as scheduled in 2017. I probably don't have to stress all this to the extreme importance of opening up as many border crossings as possible to facilitate the efficient flow of goods and people, and I would especially like to emphasise that with the help of the EU and the IPA funds, the cross-border co-operation of Hungary-Serbia. Two new border crossings are being built and expected in 2018, one is Rastina near Somboro, and the other is Rabe at the three-way between Serbia, Hungary and Romania. It is expected, which would also make it very easy to flow people and goods, that the Djala-Tisa-Sigget border crossing works all day, 24 hours a day. Serbia, as I stressed with UN assistance, is building a new infrastructure at the existing Baimok-Bacholmash border crossing, it is not far from the EU-based access funds, which has been allocated 1.8m euros with our participation of 300,000 euros on our part. As far as the budget is concerned, I must mention both the budget and agriculture. It is extremely important for us to balance the agricultural budget between investment and the survival of small agricultural producers, which we often talk about. The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management for 2018 is 44 billion dinars. In comparison to the entire budget, it is unfortunately still less than 5%, which should be gradually increased, in line with the possibilities. SVM MPs believe that the allocation of 9 billion for subsidies based on agriculture and the allocation of 260.8 million dinars to build a system of irrigation is of particular importance, we certainly welcome this. I remind you that for years, we have advocated the law to be a certain amount of incentives for agriculture. We believe that on 1 January 2018, the announcements of the distinguished Mr. Nedimovic that the new integrated information system for food security management and control, as well as the final launch of the first competitions for the use of IPARD funds, are extremely important topics, of crucial importance for further empowerment of our agricultural producers. Let me talk about some other topics, such as Proposal for a law on public service employees. In fact, SVM MPs have submitted amendments to the proposed law. After the talks and the arrangements of our parliamentary group head Mr. Balint Pastor with the minister and his associates, I am convinced that these amendments will be accepted, we only expect the government to formalise this decision and that our proposals are actually an integral part of this text. I thank you for your understanding and for your cooperation with Mr. Secretary of State and local self-government Mr. Branko Ruzic and his associates. I am pleased to continue the good practice that we have established with the adoption of the Law on Employees in Autonomous Provinces and Local Self-Government Units. What is significant, the law already says, is that when setting out the criteria for the selection of jobs, the granting of a championship is equal to the qualified candidates of national minorities, and all in order to achieve the proper representation of members of national minorities and full equality between members of national minorities and citizens belonging to the majority. This is also extremely important because of the implementation of our obligations, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has undertaken in the Action Plan for the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities, which, among other things, provides that through the introduction of provisions in specific laws concerning the working legal status of public sector employees, national minorities are to be given a championship in employment under the same conditions, all in order to achieve adequate employment of national minorities in the public sector at all levels of territorial organisation. So, as I pointed out, on the proposal of public service employees, we submitted five amendments, we proposed that in the employment of public services, in order to achieve the proper representation of members of national minorities, the championship gives equal to qualified candidates to members of national minorities, and all of this in order to respect the principle of equal availability of jobs. We believe that the adoption of these amendments will guarantee a comprehensive application of the constitutional principle of appropriate representation in public services, in this case, by extending preferential criteria for members of minority communities. Unfortunately, I must say, as far as proper representation is concerned, and the situation on the ground is catastrophic. The representation of members of national minorities is extremely low, i.e. disproportionate, is not sufficient, it is very far from proportionate representation and their participation in the territory of the local self-government unit, but we hope that by adopting these legal solutions, this law, and later regulations and other acts, this situation will drastically improve, in some foreseeable time, in the next few years, we hope no more than three, four to five years. We believe that adopting our amendments on the regulation of language and letter of national minorities, as one of the conditions for doing jobs, users of services, citizens themselves, would make it easier for members of national minorities to access rights, as well as to communicate with public service employees. It is extremely important that, after the adoption of this law in cases where a job is filled, which provides for the knowledge of the language and letters of the national minority in fact in the ad, the competition will specifically state this condition. If the situation is such that members of national minorities are under-represented among employees, the competition will once again state that a member of that national minority has priority in the election in the event of an equal assessment of qualified candidates. The last amendment, I don't want to bother you with technical details, actually refers to what is extremely important to us, that the competition commission will lead to these principles when making a decision. Once again, I thank my associates and the Minister of Openness himself, and we expect to accept these amendments. Let me also talk about the third subject of the draft law on financial support for the family with children in the remaining time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. In fact, among the thirty laws in front of us are this very important bill. The MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians believe that this proposal is not only a country's definition of social policy, but is, including demographic needs, at the same time an extremely important and important instrument of population policy. The MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will certainly support the proposal for a law on the financial support of families with children, mostly because we believe that our many-year advocates, concerning the area of protection of families and children, are accepted in this proposal. In particular, I stress that we have advocated the remuneration of income during maternity leave for child care and special care children are also given to holders of family agricultural land and persons engaged on the basis of a contract on temporary and occasional jobs, so we have advocated that farmers and these persons, do not make a difference, that their rights are equal to those employed by the employer. For us, it is extremely important that other birth benefits, care and special care payments for children can also be made by mothers who have been farmers, with the letter that during the past two years, during the 24 months before the birth of the child, they were agricultural insurance companies. We certainly support this. The right to other benefits based on birth, care and special care will allow a large number of women to first obtain the right to other benefits in the period after the birth of the child. So, it's women who are not in employment, who are self-employed, and bearers of the family's agricultural household, the land or are employed, as I mentioned, under the contract of temporary and occasional jobs, under the contract of work, author's contracts, or at the time of birth of the child, and who did not exercise the right to cash compensation on the basis of unemployment, and who were working for a period of influence on the exercise of rights. Newspapers that are also important and that we support are, for example, the cost of staying in a preschool institution for children with developmental disorders and children with disabilities, as well as the cost of staying in a preschool institution for children with financial social assistance. What is certainly significant and what we all support is that direct payment and payment of earnings and other fees, on the personal account of the users, which we believe will make things much easier for families. So, the necessary documentation will be reduced and this will lead to a regular payment of income and a suspension of delays. The newspaper that was repeatedly discussed was the flat-rate payment of the purchase of equipment for the child, with the payment of the parental allowance, instead of the so-called so-called so-called so-called. vomiting of VAT on baby equipment, buying food and baby equipment. We are not clear from this proposal, the law actually says that the amount of fees and baby supplies will be determined by the Government, on the proposal of the Minister in charge of Social Affairs and, in fact, by the Ministry, undertakes to pass regulations over the next six months, which coincides with the scope of this law, because the application of this law has been delayed for 1 July 2018. The passing of this law on financial support to the family with children is extremely important, when we know that the risk of poverty is unfortunately the largest in families with two adults and three or more children. This risk rate is 35.8% or among single parents with one or two children – 35.4%. The Serbian Children's Network announced that the children's supplement receives almost every fourth child to have 28% of children and the IOC has urged all of us to improve and adopt the law on financial support for the family with children, so we are very happy that it is now on the agenda and that in a few days we will adopt it. The Honorable Chairman, members of the Government, to sum up – The Union of Duchy Hungarians will support all the proposed laws in the day to vote and, of course, we expect the adoption of our amendments to the Bill on Public Service Employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26898	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26899	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Unique Serbia will vote in favour of the proposed laws. What I want to say at first, when it comes to the budget, is that this budget, I'm sure, is the best budget of all the budgets in the last 15 years that have been voted in this House. Why did I say that and why are better days for Serbia in 2018? Serbia, you know, that in all international institutions, we were the last or fifth bottom of the rating lists, when it comes to the economy and everything called the difference and criteria between us and some highly developed countries in Europe and the world. I am sure that the implementation of this budget will be good and as it is shown, for reasons of optimism it is very important that there is political stability in the country, good international co-operation and economic security. A luxury was thrown out of this budget, which wasn't the case of years ago. The stability of dinars is a very important thing for investors to come, for production, and when investors come, it benefits local self-government and the state budget. We only have one finding, not a remark, which I would ask to correct, which is the VAT refund. We're a little late for VAT vomit. I have several letters from economic operators asking the ministry, and I'm sure it's not intentional, it's too much of a budget crowd to look at these entities, the factories, the investors, if they meet all the legal requirements, the VAT comes back. In this budget, we can see several positions, which are very important for the development of a country, which are: subsidies for investors, subsidies for farmers, infrastructures and the continuation of the construction of Corridors 10 and 11. Without good roads, without good infrastructure, no one will pass through Serbia, go round the way, to Hungary, and from year to year a growing number of vehicles pass through Serbia and thus returns ten times more money than we have invested in the infrastructure. You know, there's something called - we don't need money to do anything. I must especially commend several ministers who have helped Serbian citizens without money, specifically the health minister, that in every municipality, in every city in Serbia, those who are not in a working relationship or not certified health books, have had and will have free checks. I've been doing it in Jagodina for 10 years, but it's not enough in one town. So I would especially like to commend the minister, and I could also see through the media that these are older people, from the village, sick. A large number of these patients who come to the exam don't know that there's high blood pressure and sugar, and those two diseases don't hurt, so don't be now that I'm a politician of general practice, but simply, I'm receiving citizens all the time and I'm always interested in what the symptoms of some disease are. Every day, on average, between 35 and 45 patients from Jagodina are brought to Belgrade for checks, to various clinics, those who are not for a sanity vehicle, so I am referred to this when it comes to health care. There's another minister who's not here, and we didn't need money to create security when it comes to future new jobs, which is dual education. Dual education is very important, so that these young people who finish high school can get jobs, have safe jobs, and today the investor won't hire someone who brings a diploma, and practically can't do what he writes in his diploma. There is another minister, Minister Rasim Rajic, who did not make all the money with tourism marketing to Serbia so that, this year, the largest number of tourists came to Serbia in the last 15, 20 years, and it is not just Belgrade's tourist destination. A decentralised tourist destination in Serbia and that those tourists who come to Serbia are also visiting other tourist centres. Here, I can tell you that there were 450 thousand tourists in Jagodina this year, and that is a factory, such as factories and Vranja Banja and Zlatibor and Niška Banja and other destinations. When you can, in the right way, show where these tourist destinations are and there are tourist brands in Serbia. I must commend another minister, Minister of Sports. That these high scores that our athletes have achieved, as individual sports and collectively, have not invested any huge money unlike the years before, but the money has been invested in a way that isn't like earlier years, let's let you make a tatar track for athletes, and you buy something else. When you score, all athletes have what they're promised, before the start of the championship, whether it's European, World or Balkan and that pensions are paid in time to those athletes. And what's most important? The athletes are the real Serbian ambassadors. Someone, not someone, but most citizens don't know that athletes make business contacts with athletes from other countries, Europe and the world. Like, for example. Our Djokovic is the best athlete of all time, twice named world athlete, but he also has a company, he deals with both business and his family. And in this way, they take off that negative label of Serbia, which is years of glue, as when you come to Serbia, this, that, etc., will happen to you. There is another minister, who has spent no more money than they have spent the previous 15 years, Minister Dacic. Minister Dacic is one of the best foreign ministers. Minister Dacic, someone's laughing at him, says Dacic. So what do you want him to do? To whine, to cry? What the President of the Turkish Government said, he did not say, hey, people, I'm in Serbia, but he says -- what he sings, it's a great honor. But this song is getting closer, it's real friendly. I'd love to sing, too, but I don't know. I sing as "jare when I get my foot stuck in the tarabs" and a large number of politicians, it's wrong and so I'm told in the Pomorava County. And not only did he sing, but thanks to him, a large number of states did not vote for Kosovo's entry into UNESCO. Several states withdrew their vote, which they gave and recognised independent Kosovo. There is another minister, perhaps in December of the month we were supposed to make a two-year-old, that he died in the workplace, but thanks to the helmet, Alexander Antic has passed away and is alive today, among us. You can applaud, but a man passed, God saved him. What's the big deal? It is constantly on the ground, and in recent years there have been much fewer restrictions in Serbia, and it is not like in some neighbouring countries, it has larger systems than Serbia, but it has always had some energy problems. Mr. Antiću, I tell you that always the helmet is in the trunk and that what we used to say in the army – there is action, "one neither" can surprise you. I have to say, as the Minister of Agriculture looks at me, I haven't forgotten you, he's looking at me and he's just about to say – what about me? I haven't forgotten you. Let me tell you, you're the only minister of agriculture who knows how many times a pig takes a pig a year. Nine years ago, a minister from your neighborhood, I asked him how many times a pig was pigs a year, and he told me seven times. Then I also told the Minister of Agriculture once – you have strayed to that function. I have to bring you four jars, in one jar of barley, wheat, oatmeal and corn, and then ask you where is the corn in which jar? And then in the break he told me – you're not really going to bring me those jars, let go of Palm those jars, etc. They were ministers of the past years. This minister doesn't enter the stables, only when it's an election campaign and it's not one of those ministers where he puts on a strong perfume, so cows and bulls get high perfume asthma when ministers enter the barn, because ministers used to enter the stables only when the election campaign is. When the elections are over, farmers are forgotten. I'm glad the cooperatives started opening up, too. I live in the country, I have 30 acres of land, maybe it's not much for Vojvodina, and I've been saving cattle, and I know what it means to a farmer who waits once a year to get the money. Minister, you're not bad, you're doing a good job. It is not bad that the grandmothers would say – God killed him, and this is our Rose. He's not bad either, considering this is his first time as minister. Wait a minute, that's what you say -- it can be, but it doesn't mean, and now it is. He's taken good care of his portfolio, taking care of the local self-government, and I don't think he should blame me for the ministers I don't see because of this pay phone, that they're all kind of good. But we have another minister, it's Minister Vujovic. When I first saw him in parliament, you remember when I was talking, he was filming on his cell phone and I was, and now I apologize for saying that, forgive me. I said, you're not a cameraman, you're a minister and listen to what I'm saying, because it concerns you. I didn't know he had the innate ability to listen, to record, to write. But he was admitted by the IMF. You can moan and yawn there on the right, whatever you want, but that's the way it is. You, Keno, when you meddle... (Radoslav Milojic: It wasn't me. It's not you? Okay. If you want to spar, it can, but sports, sports, Keno, because I look at the Assembly every day and it's just Kena yelling at people, yelling. Keno, there's talk here slowly, arguments to be verbal, not physical. Imagine, Mr. Keno...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26900	Please don't talk to me personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26901	I have to. He's throwing it at me. You, the chairman, yesterday, don't know who chaired and calms Minister Vujovic – don't, don't. Wait, if it's thrown, there's a Rules of Procedure giving a warning, first, second, third time, etc. He's a man of expertise, he's not a politician. He's an expert who came to explain how money is coming, how this money is going to be spent, etc. Now, there's a gentleman and all thanks to him, that's Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic who made the right team, who created the conditions for the state to function well, to fill the budget. What is most important is international relations, Serbia has never had better than in recent years. Yesterday, what we saw, the arrival of the BiH presidency, when it comes to Bakir Izetbegovic, and I certainly think, as his father did, that he was lying to Slobodan Milosevic and Tudjman and everyone else, that he could lie to Vukic and make a militant politician of Vukic. It never happened that such a calm head was the man who had experienced the attack in Srebrenica, that they had come after him, could barely keep his head alive, immediately after 10 days to call the same Bakir Izetbegovic, who hosted him and walk with him along the streets of Belgrade and play chess with him and that no one had thrown anything at him. Let me tell you, these international relations with the former republics that made Yugoslavia full of budgets are very important. I am sure that 99% of citizens living in BiH, of all nationalities, want peaceful relations with Serbia, to co-operate, to cooperate economically, to use what we once had, and economic potentials, is cheaper and transport, and today transport is most important in the economy and in the calculation of the cost of transport, how many kilometers it takes to drive certain goods. Of course, we are bothered by the Kosovo Albanians, who have no respect for anything. They bother us on the European path, so they don't know what the international community, which decides on the fate of Serbian citizens, and then they tell us -- you didn't respect co-operation with The Hague. Well, why didn't we respect The Hague? What co-operation did we not honor? All those on the list are in The Hague. And they only tried Serbs. No, no Muslim has been convicted of war between Serbia and Bosnia. Those convicted are convicted of war between Croatia and Bosnia, not Serbia and Bosnia. Who experienced genocide and ethnic cleansing? Serbia. How many Serbs live in Sarajevo today, Zagreb, Pristina, and how long before the war? Much less, much less, and 10 times more of this nationality that I mentioned alive. And, let him live, and we should co-operate, but to respect what's called the Brussels signature, the Brussels Agreement, only Serbia respects. You see that in The Hague there are such punishments, that it turns out that for everything that's happened, we are to blame. It is preceded by two European countries that are constantly attacking Serbia. One of these European countries, they will no longer be EU members, Great Britain, and what I care about, I will say, I will not say that the enemy is Serbia, but the UK has been doing damage to Serbia and Serbia's citizens all along. It's all affecting the budget. In such circumstances that you as a government implement such a budget, that a smaller deficit is planned for next year, with a good vision, with infrastructure, which will be continued for every praise. I am sure that the way this government is working, as well as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, that from year to year, young people from this country will be leaving less and less. We need to keep the Serbian mind. But what do we have to do to save the experts? This applies to all ministers and to the entire government. It must be decided that whoever works well in a state, public enterprise, in local self-government, directors, must be rewarded. They cannot pay, Minister Vujovic, to be the same for those who work every day and bring income to those who are parasites, drink coffee all day long. To determine the criteria for these people to be stimulated. Not a smart guy who finishes college and speaks two languages to work with the university, considering that it's a starting job and that he has 40,000 dinars of salary, or 50 in local self-government, or in some public enterprise. Furthermore, you must forbid, how is it that members of the city's larger local self-government have higher salaries than you ministers? Where's that? What are they doing? Once every three months, the proposed, political, agenda is established. They don't go to work, and they use all the privileges of municipal cars, cell phones, roming, etc. That's got to stop. Pay the councilman, you can't be a councilman, come out to be voted by the people, so you can get paid. Councilors who don't work anywhere, I don't think they should run for council, because when they run for office first, you have to hire that councilman if you want solid authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26902	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26903	I hope it hasn't been 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26904	It's over, thanks for the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26905	All right, let me just have two more sentences. Once again, Minister, when it comes to RINO, it is the law to pay 45 days, but if I agree with the contractor or with the supplier that the value of the investment is paid for two or three years, and he pays me for the invoice in 45 days or for 50 days, I can't be blocked because of it, let us also have an annex contract where the contractor or supplier says – I'll wait for the feathers, because if we do so, we can't do anywhere, in any municipality, in any city. We will vote for this budget because it is both a developmental and social character and it is good for the citizens of Serbia. A unique Serbia will vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26906	Thank you. Mr. Milojic, as I have said many times, you are the MP Radoslav Milojic for me, if you recognize yourself, since you are obviously mentioned by nickname, you have the right to replication. Do you want a replica? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26907	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know why there's anxiety in the ruling coalition. I, like someone who spends my whole life playing sports, football, of course, never run away from the challenge. We heard the first challenge from Minister Stefanovic and Aleksandar Vukic who can go out on a big day. Now we've heard it from Mr. Palma. Of course we're not afraid and it's no problem, we just think that for Serbian citizens, this is an extremely important life issue, of the utmost importance that they will live tomorrow, and Serbian citizens are living worse and worse, their wages are getting lower and lower, they can't provide their children with lunch for school, they can't provide their children with money for the trip. So we can also talk on sports grounds, of course, accept the challenge, especially with the first two mentioned, and of course with the mentioned Mr Markovic, but we think today is extremely important and that this budget that is extremely bad for the citizens of Serbia is an extremely important topic for us to discuss here sports disciplines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26908	Thank you, Mr. Milojich. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26909	I thank the chairman. Very short. Article 107 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly, but also the dignity of the people involved in sports. So I'd like to draw your attention that you should have turned your attention to the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26910	Only the dignity of the National Assembly, no one else, can be hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26911	You should have pointed out that there's a difference, it's sports when someone plays football or when they're a member of a football club, but it's not sports when someone pulls money from a football club, like a previous speaker at the Jasenica football club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26912	Thank you, although you used this a little bit in the replica. (Dragan Markovic: Replica. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26913	Mr. Keno, I'm sorry to call you that. You know what, I don't come to this congregation, because I'm ashamed to listen to the terms that you say these terms aren't appropriate, to be used and heard in cafes, because this congregation is watching children, too, and those people who want to hear something smart. I am therefore, sir, speaking to the chairman, that we are competing with who has better suggestions, who will do better for Serbia, not to compete who will hit, who will fight, or who will attack Minister Vujovic, or one of the ministers he spoke to. If I don't like what they're saying, I'll make the arguments that I have a better suggestion than you. So, I didn't mean to offend Mr. Ken who's from Central Serbia. As far as sports are concerned, we need to act sportingly, engage in sports on the ground, and out of the field to help those people, etc. I felt very sorry for Minister Vujovic yesterday. You know, he's not a fake, he's not a politician, he's not someone who's been making some jokes and gestures, that's what it looks like to be attacked there, but it's been very embarrassing and it's a great honor for you to continue to explain the budget. Here's the minister, Kenna answered, thinks who knows what Kena's gonna say. So, Keno, I didn't mean anything by it. You live in central Serbia like I do. Let's fight, what's better for you to do, what you've done for us, and be topics for discussion in parliament. Otherwise, the Jagodina Assembly, 15 points takes 15 minutes. No journals, no money, nothing. You understand, 15 minutes, we set up the agenda and finish the story. If we were to cancel salaries and journals here, it would be the same here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26914	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26915	Thank you. Although, I think it would be polite for the finance minister to be here when we talk about this. Are we gonna wait for him or should I start?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26916	Do you want me to maybe give a word to someone who's after you? I understand your request, but I hope it comes soon. Have an understanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26917	No, okay. I'm talking. I expected the Prime Minister to be here today. It's a good custom for a budget, in principle a bar, to defend the Prime Minister. She's the one who signed this proposal for us, this chef I don't know how many, 700 and some pages here. Let's not whine, so let's just show the people we're here to use the font. I don't think that's possible to see. It's a font that's less than a millimeter, so you can't read with a shovel, but, of course, I'm not complaining. The job of the MPs, and above all the MPs of the opposition, to be prepared for any bribery that comes from the other side. Anyone who complains about it doesn't know where he lives and doesn't know who he's dealing with. As for the Independent Parliament Club and the New Party, we have submitted 80 amendments, with a good desire to fix this draft budget. If the minister were here, and he wasn't, I'd be talking like he's here. He knows that I respect him very much, that I appreciate his professional qualities, that I also showed it by returning him to Serbian citizenship in 2001, which he had given up before, for justified reasons, and that's all right. I have absolutely no evil intentions towards him, nor any evil comment. I think he's a good economist, he's got great experience, he's got a lot of knowledge working right on public finances, but what we've been offered this year doesn't deserve a single nice word, except he's spent a lot of paper, except for the budget that's usually being made. Welcome, Minister. I think it's very bad for a man of these qualities, and I was just saying good about you, Mr. Minister, to stand behind, to sign a text like this. We have, first of all, a problem with the data that makes the budget. So the most important economic indicators in Serbia have been false for several years, so absolutely false. Even the minister himself rebuked this Mali, which is now the mayor of Belgrade, that he is using the wrong methodology to display a debt reduction, but unfortunately also in the ministry, where Minister Vujovic is, something similar or the same is happening. We have a story about our public debt being less than it is in 10, 15 years. That's one interesting math. So it's 25 billion euros, what is now a public debt, that's less than 15, 16 billion, what was the public debt when the government first assumed responsibility in 2012. It's one step in economic science, and for God's sake, in math, even in the account. So, 25 billion, dear colleagues and dear citizens of Serbia, the debt that you will repay and your children, is less than 15 billion, which was before that. This is all settled with favourable loans, which are otherwise taken further. Another false data is GDP growth. It's a constant story that it's phenomenal, that it's a miracle, so we're planning 2.7, so we skip it with 2.9, then the World Bank, so the IMF, one selective reading of their reports, leads to people lying about it, and saying that GDP growth is the greatest, best, first in history, larger in Tito's time, etc., which is incorrect. So anyone who enters any site of the relevant economic and financial institution sees that this is not true, that GDP growth in the first three years after 5 October was four times larger than it was in these five years since this government, that there was no interruption in debt, that a month ago we had a bond broadcast of about 2.5 billion, if I remember correctly, that these are all things that say that the picture of Serbia's economic success in the last few years has been a lie. Number of employees and unemployed. They say -- it was 26% five years ago, and now I guess it's 13%. That means half as much. How is it possible when 800,000 people were unemployed five years ago, and now 650,000 people are unemployed? That's 150,000 less, and 150,000, as far as I've studied mathematics, can't possibly be half of 800,000, or maybe something advanced has changed there, progressive and I don't know how. It's called playing with statistics, it's called bringing out false facts. This is called a lie in Serbia, both central and Vojvodina and Belgrade and southern Serbia. And, when you have false data, on purpose, not out of experience, I'm sure Mr. Secretary has absolutely all the experience and knowledge of this area, but it's deliberately a fake painting, or someone's lying to the minister. I see the minister has some bags of pores of himself. I don't know if he's getting ready for a trip, but I think he'd still have to make sure his people are lying to him. There, to inform you exclusively, and Minister Vujovic, although he knows it, and members of the government, who should know it, but also Serbian citizens and your colleagues and colleagues, which is that Serbia re-entered a list, seven, eight days ago, on 6 December this year, the EU put Serbia on a grey list of tax rulings. So we have not yet reached the blacklist, although there have been great chances, but this opportunity has obviously been missed, but the EU has put us on the list of 47 states that, in its tax policy, in its public finances, in everything that represents an ambience for business life in one country and respect for rights, has been placed as a very suspicious country. So there is no Serbia in the blacklist, but there is our eternal friend, both politically and economically. These are the Emirates, who seem to have recognised Kosovo, the same thing that we have been working with in the last five, six years of some suspicious projects. Well, they're on the blacklist. And on the gray list, on that nice list, we have a very nice company. Now I'm going to tell you some of those states we're measuring ourselves with. It's, say, Botswana, Maldives, Peru, Qatar, New Caledonia, Morocco, Fiji, etc. Well, there's Nauru. I don't know if she confessed to Kosovo, but we're on a gray list together with Nauru, with St. Vincent and Grenadines, for example, that's how it's read, with Nua and so, so, one respectable group of states, 47 states on the gray list, another three to be 50 shades of grey economy where we are. It's a picture of our economic situation and it's an image of respect for law. That's why, usually with large subsidies, foreigners who like to play in tax paradises come to Serbia, which means they take money from the budget, which means there's no money for health care, for subsidies in agriculture, for education and sport, but we play with it, so we convince citizens that the most important thing is to take a fiscal bill when they drink coffee or cappuccino, and that it's irrelevant that we're on a gray list, which is on the verge of becoming blacklist. I urge you, Minister, that later, if I was wrong in interpreting this EU decision, you give us broader information on this. There are many, many more reasons why this budget is bad. When this gray list was made, some people who were informed, and I'm inclined to believe them, I'm not saying that this is an explicit fact, but I'm very inclined to believe them in relation to some information that I've received from them before, that the minister was then defending himself in Brussels and that he said that he can't do it all himself, that the problem with what the BIA has taken over is tax police management for several years back, that it's one big problem of intricacy and that they have some other ideas with the tax police and tax administration, and not what it is business and that, as far as VAT returns go, there's a very clear criterion for the return of VAT, and that's the political resemblance of the company, the individual, the economy, and they say that the minister was so defending himself in Brussels and I understand such defence, if it's true, and I said that I should believe it. Of course we're back without a budget report for last year, not to say again, everyone knows that, it's become a tradition, a disgusting, a bad one, but in 2003 we all agree that the last time that report was given. I don't know what stopped others from giving that report? I don't know what they're ashamed of or ashamed of or what you're ashamed of. We have one secret item in the budget, I don't remember which number, almost six billion, BIA says. Six billion, period. Without any kind of specification. I published the 2003 budget where the BIA wrote the same thing, so there's one 10 items to which it's spent. If you think it's a state secret, no, it's not. Go to the CIA site and check it out. They have a 15-page display of their expenses. It's public everywhere except here. I wonder what's secret to the BIA? Is it changing tiles around bathrooms and kitchens there, so it's some big spending, some ceramic work or locksmith's work, or is it breaking into the houses of political opponents by order of the BIA, or is it listening to everything alive, and you don't understand anything? Just so we know what it is. So, it must not, Mr Vujovic, be darkened, as some arrest warrant is blacked out, in the budget, and therefore we are on the gray list, because you can't see where this money is being spent, and it has to be seen and it doesn't endanger the country's security, absolutely. There's no doubt about it. We've got huge cabinet expenses. Not the cabinet of the president of the state, since we don't exactly have a legally elected president of the state, but let's make it a "de facto" now. There's a president of the state and there's there I think even a cut budget. It's demagogy, of course, because money comes from sponsors on the blacklist that are being dealt with, but cabinets of various agencies, ministries or nothing. Because when the minister is without a portfolio, it is the minister, the people say nothing. I'm not saying anything personal to people who have been elected to these functions, but the very definition of functions is pointless. So if the minister does something, say what he's doing and then he writes it's the Ministry for it and it's not gonna be like this. Therefore, it is huge money and we in our 80s and some amendments suggest that this money should be directed where it is much more important, so let's say it is for the treatment of children and others who cannot be treated with us, for young talents, for many other very, very necessary things in Serbia that the owners of fake diplomas, verified thieves, moral and physical freaks will never agree with. I don't think we should worry about what they think in Serbia, but worry about what's good for the citizens. (Alexander Martinovic: Marinkovic, what is this? If anyone recognized myself in what I said earlier, I apologize, it wasn't my intention, and I leave your recognition to you. Furthermore, we have a huge increase in arms money and it's being placed here as phenomenal -- now we, now we're going to arm ourselves, so we're going to be a leader in the region, of course, more than during Tito. Of course, of course, of course. Can anyone explain to me, there's the minister of the military, which is why we're arming ourselves? Based on what project, plan? Is there a defense strategy? Was she adopted in this House? Is there, I don't know that there is, and I should know, I read a lot of newspapers, especially "The Official Messenger"? Therefore, the weaponry in one normal country is done by creating a strategy of defence that is not made by drowsiness, but by serious consideration, and then by defining where the danger comes from, who are potential enemies, who are potential allies, and then, compared to that, a military organisation is created, so that, as phase four or fifth, arms are chosen. Who's our enemy? Who are we going to shoot with those S 300 or S400 or I don't know how many "S" and where are these flashes that have usually been grounded since they got here, probably and this S 300 is going to have a problem? Is he not going to have batteries, which we've already had as a problem in the military or not having enough bloated tires or I don't know what? Anyway, I don't know why it's done, and we should know, not just us MPs, but the whole state that seems to be listening. Second, that arming, this team of similar parties, the same parties, was arming in the 1990s, so we know how we went. When you arm yourself and you defend Serbia, Serbia loses. There's no doubt about it. When you defend Serbs outside Serbia, the Serbs are gone. So, I think it's a serious topic to talk about seriously. We've got an increase in infrastructure building, so we're throwing ourselves back at some billions, so we're going to finish that Corridor 10 again. This "by the end of the year" lasts from 2013. It's like it's a polar year, even though it lasts the same year. Please be serious and stop once, so first we stop saying that there is a Corridor 11. It doesn't exist anywhere. This does not exist in any EU document. You know exactly what corridors are. In Serbia, we have two, that is the 7th Danube River, and 10th, this time that is on Nis for Bulgaria and Macedonia. Corridor 11 doesn't exist. There's some highway we can call whatever we need to call it. Why are we taking credit? To hire foreign investors and foreign labour to make bad roads for us. Why don't we take credit when we're standing so well with that little interest rate, like you said earlier, below 2%, so we can hire our own? There are companies here that can, that existed and that can be re-made, if necessary, and there are existing companies that know how to re-mount the rails, make way without clay or clay, make bridges. Well, there were bridges here both before the Chinese and before these others who invented it. We created a phenomenal Pupin Bridge, a miracle of technique, a miracle of architecture, urbanism, everything, with a 50-mile limit. So what's it for? We could've walked. Secondly, we built a big railway station called Prokop. From there, five trains a day go out of Belgrade and we have this local that goes from the Pančeva Bridge there somewhere to Batajnica. Is that why? It's a little too much money, and it's been building for 20-30 years. The third most important thing, these jobs are business without a tender. These are the arrangements for friends forever at dinner, after dinner, on their way to the bedroom. I quote a high-ranking official who said so that he made his deals with the Emirates, and I can give you a source, publicly. Culture and education are also maimed by this draft budget. You have one item that is 3,000 dinars. Imagine that we have in the budget an item of 3,000 dinars. It's a prevention of child discrimination. The Serbian government, the present ministers, the president, and you will vote on that, has allocated 3,000 dinars for prevention? Three thousand? Some give what they get every month for 20 million from Serbia's budget. Some municipalities give Mrs. 2,000, Mr. 2,500 each day. That's how much you gave for this prevention and that's terrible. I expect Minister Udovicic to support our amendment, which is taken from the railway subsidies by a billion and given for talent, and that's the real thing. I also expect a comment from the present minister and his positive statement to the government when the amendment is on the agenda. This budget sucks. I invite you, you have time to withdraw it, to give something decent, something that, Mr. Vujovic, is worth what your knowledge is and your experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26918	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. Take it easy, just sign in. First, he has the right to say "Mr. Marijan Rističević, "the violation of the Rules of Procedure". Minister, just be patient, no problem, I'll delete the list, and we'll do it again. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm advocating a member of the 107th violation of the National Assembly's dignity. You let my fellow farmer, in a people known as ZZ, cruelly disrupt the dignity of the National Assembly. He foamed here as a "Fruskogorje pearl" from those famous vineyards. Mr. Chairman, it's unreasonable to explain it, and I've been trying for days, if it were unreasonable, if it could be, he wouldn't be unreasonable, but he's been talking about everything here. He spoke of a man who was in Langley, Virginia, let's say he wasn't in the CIA headquarters in 2003, after the prime minister died, in whose chair he sat down, he arranged...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26920	How did I hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26921	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and he's arranged to sell DIN and DIV for five times the price it was estimated for. This is the man who "MK Komerci", of whom he received money for those vineyards, sold the Ustace building for nothing. He's talking about the budget, he's talking about the deficit, he's brutally robbed him. You let him talk about the BIA here. It didn't matter to him, the BIA, it mattered to him to the CIA. He arranged with them to arrest whom, whom they were going to pursue, arranged with them what they would sell in vain, and you should not have allowed such a fellow farmer to attempt here in such a way as to harshly disrupt the dignity of the National Assembly. My personal opinion is that he should not be in the National Assembly, that he should be in a closed room under special conditions, and counterpart Rancic, psychiatrist, knows what institution he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26922	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day for the vote of counterpart Risticevic? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by MP Igor Becic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26923	Dear Chairman, I think you have violated the 106th member of the Rules of Procedure where you have been obliged not to allow this kind of untrueness. When we talk about the BIA budget, I must really remind, as president of the Committee, of certain MPs, of certain facts and activities of this Parliament from the previous period. The Security Control Committee was first educated in this House in 2012 and some of us were then members of the Committee. I would remind you that at a session held on 22 May 2013, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decided on the adoption of the Security Control Committee's 2012 Security Review Report, and this was the first such report by the newly educated committee at the time. In conclusion, the 2012 Safety Control Committee's 2012 Safety Control Report states that the Committee considers that the funds for the work of the Security Service should be planned in accordance with the Law on the Budgetary System and the sublaws adopted under this law, but that the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia and the Budgetary Report show up in total. All members of the Committee, including opposition MPs, were then members of DS, LDP and DSS, agreed that the security services budgets should not be shown at the level of economic classifications, i.e. according to the standard classification framework and the final plan for the budgetary system, as information on operational and functional capabilities of the security service can thus be obtained, which is not in line with national security interests. Another not true is said here. Look at the CIA website, which was the previous speaker, who told everything but the truth, you can see that these data are a state secret and are not shown in the way he wanted to show it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26924	Thank you, colleague Becic. Take it easy. I've got a lot of reports. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26925	Because someone seems unhappy with the budget that has a record low deficit, here's the thing that broke my heart, and I have to tell you that I'm really worried that he's really unhappy about it. On the other hand, we are good things for our country very pleased, which includes that record low deficit. As far as the budget is concerned, Becic is right. The first thing you see when you try on the Internet to look for the CIA budget is that it says it's a state secret, as well as the number of employees, as well as activities, which is probably a normal thing. It's not only normal for someone who seems to be an expert in general practice, so he's not satisfied with the fact that the debt is shrinking, which is easily verifiable, and he's not interested in reading the official data from the web address of our authorised institutions, so to see that it's not 14, it's not 15 billion in 2012, it's 17.7, so as he missed it, he missed out on how much debt today, but let's say it's because it's such an expert, of course. When it comes to the city of Belgrade, I believe it is very difficult for him to fall, that he is simply in pain with the fact, a billion and 200m euros in debt, left by great experts of general practice, in which it belongs. That debt was cut in half. What's good for us, though, seems worth saying hello to us. What he doesn't like and what he says is a lie again is the consequence of his great expertise. To say that he lies to the World Bank or lies to the IMF when he talks about good things for Serbia, it's absolutely unacceptable. Is he lying to the World Bank that ranked us 50 places better on the Duing Business List? Does the IMF lie when it says, and his official in Serbia says, that the results of the shift made by Serbia are impressive, quote impressive? He is lying, probably, and when he says that GDP is better today than in those minus 3.6% in his great time, the time of these generalists from the "yellow company" and we all lie together when we say that Serbia is making progress on European integration. The EU you mention will open two new chapters with Serbia this month. To justify total notorious nonsense, in the end, in one sentence that reads, if I remember correctly, it's all as bad and wrong as that someone taught. That's where we agree. As he learned, so many smart things are heard on the other side. Let me get this straight. It's all nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26926	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26927	You see, Mr. Zivkovic said, or quote me when I was helping the citizens -- two thousand for the lady, three thousand for the gentleman. Apparently, Mr. Zivkovic thinks it's his time, so when people come looking for jobs and salaries that are not paid, he takes out police and police beats workers from all over Serbia in Serbia. That time's long gone. Mr. Zivkovic doesn't know that three thousand dinars are allowance for an interior student studying in Belgrade in two weeks. Mr. Zivkovic doesn't know who has three children every month only needs food from 15 to 25 thousand dinars. Why would I do that? Because I invited 80% of the people in Jagodina, and Mr. Zivkovic goes to Nis only to celebrate and was in Nis when it was a campaign to win and he said – vote for me, do not pay for the electricity. He won, and those who didn't pay for the electricity paid with interest. That's how we differ, Mr. Zivkovic. If you call me again, then I'll remind you of your past in Nis that happened, but you're a unique case in the world that it happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26928	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26929	It's very sad to hear these comments on my budget discussion. I called the finance minister to answer, the defence minister to give his opinion and some others, and then you stood up, dear colleagues. First he got up the smartest, the most eloquent, the most beautiful among you, and he gave you new standards, sitting there next to the one who was arlauing, and that's your measure of value, and that's very good. Well, you don't think bad of your colleague, do you? What the president of the municipality or the president of the Assembly, a fellow MP who receives from Serbia's budget every two months at 20 million because he is empty of the register, writes in a decision read in "The Official Messenger" which is the most dangerous opposition message in Serbia, because it absolutely clearly writes everything you do against the law and against the smarts. The same happened with Belgrade's budget when the successful, phenomenal budget of Belgrade was now being allocated to the government of Serbia's 200-million-dollar grant for this sneezing. You can do whatever you want, but it won't cover up the ugly picture you're making here. So, anything from my past or the past of a colleague we can talk about for days. I'm proud of my past, and some should cover themselves with ears, not just one colleague, but many others.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26930	It's not funny. Here you go. Marijan Rističević according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26931	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, again, Article 107. - a violation of dignity. You have all seen and heard my fellow farmer, beautiful, simple-minded, simply radiating, this beside him faithful to his strangers, so that I would not speak of beauty. We can't all be as beautiful as him, but we can't be as unfair as him. So, he didn't answer the questions, except he tried to do, he didn't answer the questions -- did after the prime minister's death, whose chair he sat down in, in the United States, in Langley, Virginia, if he was in the U.S. and if he made a deal there, and I have living witnesses, did he make a deal there, and he can ask Brian Hoyt Ti, did he agree there to sell DIN and DIV under the price five times and get $12 million for it? From that money he bought an apartment on Vrakar from a single athlete for 500,000 euros? He wouldn't answer that. He did not respond, nor did he sell under the price to Miodrag Kostic, the mouth centre, to a company that did not participate in the competition at all? He didn't want to answer that, he just tried to insult me. My fellow farmer can only try to offend anyone here. Not everyone can humiliate us, not everyone can insult us. For someone to humiliate me, and for someone to insult me, that must be someone, not anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26932	Replica. Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26933	Mr. Zivkovic, I won't say you're lying, but you've told the truth. Go get the paper and show the paper where it says that Jagodina gets 20 million each month. Get the paper. Come on, bring it. You're asking them to give it to you in writing. Mr. Zivkovic, I don't want to beat you for lying. Otherwise, a gentleman from Nis called Lule, when Zivkovic lied about him in Nis, he intercepted him, slaps him, and that's the whole truth. Mr. Zivkovic, just so you know that because of you and your policy where you sold all the well-being factories in Serbia and the tobacco factory in Nis, you left the cable factory without a job, because you didn't buy anything from the cable factory and 2,000 people this year from the cable factory took the severance payment. That way, since you don't understand it, because you've got a job, I don't know how either, that way you're less full of the city's budget for 2,000 people than pay taxes, not my guilt, not the guilt of this government, not the guilt of this majority, but your guilt. When you sold the tobacco factory, you said -- here, I quit smoking, and all of Serbia started smoking cigarettes because of you. Shame on you. Hide in that hole and don't answer at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26934	The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26935	Of course they've been told lies. Just part of what we've been listening to for a long time. Anyone who's written enough to know 30 letters of Serbian alphabet can read when the Serbian economy is destroyed and I won't say it. It can't just be understood by someone who's stupid or who's evil, and I'm sure there are a lot of people here who are good people. So they're not evil, they're... Legnley, Virginia, U.S.A., unfortunately I haven't seen. I've traveled a lot across the United States and across Europe, and I've been in a lot of places, and it's my life's pleasure, but Langley's nothing. As for the privatisation of DIN, DIV, “Lukoila”, which we had at the time, to stay with those three, which was done at the time when I had some responsibility in this country, it was sold through the course of the Privatisation Agency. The head of the tender sector, and this was sold through the tender, at the Privatisation Agency when the three companies, DIN, DIV and Lukoil, were sold to Sinisa Mali, so if you have any objections to these privatisations, go ahead, cross over there. You have some construction sites, be careful not to break your leg, I wish you a long and happy life, so ask Little One – what is the problem with DIV, DIN, Lukoil? Finally, I am sorry, but the man mentioned by his previous Nis counterpart and some slappers was unfortunately something that would always be called a criminal in Serbia, and unfortunately he lost his life in a lamb roaster's reckoning and you know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26936	It's full of leaves. Is anyone picking up the replicas? Milorad Mijatovic. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26937	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable ministers, in Serbia, if you want to be on the pillar of shame, raise the result, have the result, the success, and then it is the greatest sin in Serbia. No one's going to mention the result, no one's going to mention success, but that's why they're going to talk about everything else, and as we're discussing the budget here, no one's going back to the budget, to the figures, no one's coming back to what's going on here in our budget. I'm waiting for some MPs to die. I can wait. I'm in no hurry. Thank you. What I'm trying to say is that I feel relaxed today. Why? Because we have extraordinary results in financial consolidation. Let's just go back to 2014. In 2014, we had a budget deficit of 256 billion. Now we have a surplus at the end of November of 80 billion just in three years. Please, in three years, we're out of 256 billion that have been deficits to 80 billion surpluses. It didn't come from itself. This came precisely with long hard work, the knowledge of our government, the knowledge of the finance minister, and I therefore give full recognition to the previous and this government, and especially to the award of the Minister of Finance, Mr Vujovic. These results are few countries in Europe and have reached beyond, and we are not talking about them. What does this budget mean? This budget of ours from the restrictions passes into the development budget, 128,000 million real funds are being pumped in this country into investments, wages and further development. That's what nobody's gonna say here. We don't see the results here, but that's why we keep going back in time, because in that past we find some of our pluses or minuses, and no one wants to talk about what's waiting for us tomorrow. We can also talk about what Corridor 10 means. I pray to God that Corridor 10 is over. We've been talking about him for 40 years. Come on, I'll be the luckiest man I can get to both Greece and Bulgaria on the highway. Corridor 11, we're talking railroads. We also talk about what it means to join the EU, no one will say, they were all full of the mouth of the European Union. No chapter was opened. We have 10 open chapters today, and we're going to get another 11. I'm not happy, I want a lot more chapters. But since, when you have the result, then they go public -- no, Serbia is not interested in entering the EU. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia has always stressed - yes, we want to join the EU. And all that we do and financial consolidation, further development, is just to get into the EU prepared, to know what we want and to know where we want to go. I said that in 2014, we had a deficit, a decline in social product, great unemployment, inflation. Now we don't have that, now we have one sustainable budget, a development budget. Yesterday, the minister said it was an ambitious budget. I don't think that's an ambitious budget. If we take a closer look at the items of income, the items of expenditure, we'll see that there's even more chance that this deficit of 0.6 really isn't, it won't be at the end of the year, if it's all the way it's supposed to go, because it's simply something that gives this budget sustainability. No one wants to say the next result. In 2104, we had over 70% of GDP, we had a debt, now it's at 65%. Next year it will fall to 63% of GDP. We're going to master conditions at 60%. Well, wait, that used to be a dream for us, and he's public today, so say the numbers don't lie, the numbers tell the truth, you just have to look gently at them, you have to look at them the way it's true and real, and not just look for what's negative and what gives you the chance to attack. There's one more thing I want to say, the results we achieved, the share of wages and pensions in 2014, pensions were at 13% of DBP, and salaries were at 11%. We have reached those economic parameters that are desirable, which everyone in the EU recognises for countries of this level of development. We're here on pensions at 11.2%. That means we've reached the parameters we've been trying to reach. Also, as far as salary is concerned, we've arrived somewhere at 8.3% of GDP. What does that mean? This means that we have achieved the quality that we were expected to do through proper work, and that is why for me this budget and for the Social Democratic Party this budget is a sustainable budget, which is a path for the future, which will mean that we are getting better and better every year. Why am I saying this? I'm also talking about the fact that we're now raising salaries and pensions. The percentages to which we increase are 10% for the salaries of those who work in education, health care, safety, we're talking about 5% in state services, etc. And we're talking about pensions that are increasing by 5%. It's about pay well, we increase it 10 and 5%, respectively. They'll be bigger. I'm not going to say this time that Serbia is still living well, that it is easy to live, but Serbia has a path, a sustainable path that will mean better and better in the coming period. One more thing, all this stuff we're doing, we're doing from the funds we've earned, the funds we have. So we're not wasting the future of generations, we're wasting what we've created. The point is, by creating a new value, we give ourselves a basis so that we can live better and more. I know something else, 2020 isn't far. One of the phases I expect will be in the coming period is that we will continue to grind economic instruments, what still has a minus in our economic development. I don't need to stress, we still have companies that we haven't privatised, I don't want to mention Resavica, ISK, Azotar, Petrochem, RTB Bor, there go significant funds, but there works a significant number of people. If we found a solution to a hardware store in Smederev, I'm absolutely sure I can find solutions for some of these companies. Finally, I expect we've also found solutions for Galenika. Therefore, we will find solutions and significant resources that the state gives, we will be able to focus on further development. This is where we talked about employment. He says we're doing statistical results. I've been reading some data, and I'll tell you right now. In November, the unemployment rate was 11.6% and somewhere around 622,000 people were jobless. Do you know that in this Serbia, there are places where there are not enough workers. Go to Ruma, Caves, and people will tell you right away that they don't have enough workers to hire in new plants. Someone's going to say, "No one's going to work for a smaller salary." I'll tell you that many people want to work. The standard also increases by salary, but the standard also increases higher employment within the family. When we have now created the opportunity to have extra jobs in certain environments, be assured that this way we will increase wages. Because the owners of these companies will have to pay more if they want to make a profit. That we're socially responsible is the fact that we've increased the minimum labour price from 131 dinars to 143 dinars. I respect that very much. It was agreed between unions and employers through social dialogue. That's very good. This should continue, because increasing the minimum labour price creates an opportunity for other salaries to go up as well. Also, for the first time, this government succeeded in agreeing with employers to increase the untaxed share on wages, which is very significant, but it was possible to do so when space was created that what was earned could be divided. That's what no one here will see, and we're talking about all the other things. I always look to the future. I can say we'll give full support to the budget. We will gladly vote for him and give full support and further reforms. Remember, reforms, structural reforms are not over. It's one marathon, we're at the very beginning, we need to move on and work, but if we succeed in three years to do what we did, and why don't we give ourselves the goals of making an even bigger step further, where Serbia will be an attractive country with roads, railways, with decent salaries. With wages that can be lived with dignity. When I talk about wages, I've always been a social-democracy advocated that those who have the least enough to live, to live, to live, to live with dignity. But be assured, Serbia is already doing a lot more work, and I'm sure in three years it'll be much better because we've traveled the road, because if we've allocated 128 billion this year, then those 128 billion for public investment are a very large figure of ours, from our funds. That's what will certainly give us results in the next period. One more thing. No one's going to say that we're increasing the general government's public investment by 3.6%. In all normal countries, I hope that Serbia, at least in economic terms, is politically stable, will be even more stable in economic terms. Investment needs 5% of gross social product, we've reached 3.6%. We'll get down to that 5%, I'm sure, in 2020. The gross social product that we are slowly raising is currently, as the minister said, four thousand 755 billion dinars, budget revenues are a thousand 178 billion, expenditures are a thousand 207 billion, 28 billion is that deficit 0.6%. Three years ago, the unbelievers said: "We shall never achieve this, so we have achieved it." Say -- you've achieved, yes, the budget is now stable, on solid grounds, yes, the budget deficit is, this year will be surplus, and next year I'm sure it'll be surplus again. I know by following and talking about some things with economists, I'm sure this will be fulfilled. Also, you know that we've been paying huge interest in borrowings. Last year it was 133 billion. If for all the wages in this country, in the state services we're giving 208 billion, so you see how much we've had to pay the other one only interest because of our previous borrowings. This year for interest, next year we're going to give 117 billion and that's a significant result. Someone will say – this result has achieved a favourable attitude towards the dollar, towards the euro. I'm sorry, it's been before, it's been favourable, it's been unfavourable. This is a good circumstance. It gives us the opportunity to breathe full of lungs, to invest further. With this budget, which I said that the development budget gave priority, I'm very happy that agriculture got two and a half billion more, it's going to mean a lot. Also, it means a lot to me that it is investing in tourism, there have been speeches, the IT sector and there are the biggest investments planned. With long-term investment in this sector, I hope next year, we have a shift in investment, a much greater investment in education, in health care, and this will give us the opportunity to stand on tighter feet in 2020 than we are now. I also want to talk about the objectives of sustainable development. For the first time in the Assembly, and last time I spoke, and I want to speak now, it was too late for this budget in 2018 to give some corrections, but I hope that the finance minister will clearly indicate in the coming year what the goals of sustainable development mean and what it is that the budget fund that we have a better quality of life, that we have a healthier environment, and that is why I will always support more funding for the environment, for better quality of life, for water, for sewage, and I have already talked about education and health. Of course, watching the minister of sports, I love sports too, and I want athletes to have results. They do it even though we don't reward them too much, their satisfaction is what they did for their country. There was no IMF speech here. We've had the IMF, the eighth audit's over, the IMF's done its job. Personally, my parliamentary group believes that co-operation with the IMF should continue. Not in that sense, because we don't need the funds, we create them ourselves, we create a supervisory function. I know us, when we get some results, we're very soon able to spoil them. The supervisory function of Serbia is still necessary and I think it should consider it. I suggest that the government consider continuing co-operation with the IMF in terms of overseeing all our public finances as we have so far. One more thing, he said at the very beginning, the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group of Serbia will be pleased to vote for this budget, for the results achieved in 2017, which are extended in 2018. I also expect that in 2018 we will have some discussions on some budget solutions for 2019, while we have held a debate on pensions on the Finance Committee, to see if some things can be defined, whether some solutions may have been better for the citizens of Serbia or not, to avoid linear issues in decision-making, for the simple reason, to define some decisions at this stage where Serbia is located is very important. With the desire to make this budget a step further into the EU, that it is also made according to EU criteria, I thank once again the government of the Republic of Serbia and the finance minister to whom I give recognition, because he is an exceptional expert. The way we are and the way our finances have been so far, it's been hard to tighten up and lead to this situation where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26938	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26939	Thank you very much. In order to properly inform MPs and the public, allow me to provide some information concerning the presentation of MPs Zivkovic. First, the apropo of the above-mentioned stories concerning personal issues about citizenship, I have already explained it once, I will explain it one more time. So we don't have to have a good memory, with age it falls, but we have to write it down at least. So Dusan Vujovic i.e. I never gave up citizenship, never asked for citizenship. I have my citizenship enrolled in the home book of citizens in the city of Kickinda by mother and it stands since it was registered to this day. This is where Mr. Zivkovic mixed up a request for my wife's citizenship, which, by the circumstances, left her without citizenship. She was born in Croatia even when she wanted to extend the so-called An old Yugoslav red passport, she was told she couldn't get it without a citizenship certificate to get a blue passport, and the certificate couldn't take it at that time in Croatia, because she couldn't get a document like that and she didn't want to sign a statement they asked her to sign. I have spoken to him, and I am extremely grateful to both Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Labus. Look at the documentation and you will see that it has received citizenship based on its stay in Belgrade since 1963 with a leave of absence when we were living in Washington. So let's put an end to it. Check the paperwork, please. Look, it's very important that you respect the facts and don't use them, I think it may have remained that way in your memory, but it's completely absurd because I've never had any other citizenship, nor have I given it up, nor could I ever give it up. Therefore, it is a completely absurd claim. Secondly, also as far as the facts are concerned, it means your impressions of our public are completely incorrect. You chose one digit when you remember, and another number you mention today and you attribute some numbers that make little sense if they're not interpreted. Expecting your question, I have asked my colleagues for detailed data on public debt since 2014, since the first Government of Aleksandra Vukic was elected on 27 April 2014. It's the first government I've ever been to, with Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. That's a fact, April 27, 2014, you can check it out, please. I watched the data for 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, with 30 November. The debt situation, which is very important, without these calculations, since I see that many people here can also be analyzed, but without calculations, the debt situation is like this: the euro debt - nine billion 493 million, so it climbed to nine billion 884, then to nine billion 862, and to nine billion 794. So something fell a little this year. So it's in euro debt, there's no recalculation. The debt in dollars: it started from eight billion 717 million to eight billion and 900, to eight billion 861, to eight billion 133, which corresponds to my opening statement on how we paid back 750m euros in debt in November. And finally, the debt in the dinars, where we are in debt on the domestic market, is half the debt in the domestic market, even part of the euro is on the domestic market – 588 billion at 668 billion, to finance the deficit that was at the end of 2014. Remember, 250 billion we had to finance, and today we're talking about the 28.4 billion deficit, which is almost ten times, that's the order of size two, at 639 billion 2016 and 644 billion at the end of November, so on November 30th this year. If you want to add up, the situation is moving like this: in dinars, the debt rose from 2,753 billion to the figure that someone had already mentioned, on the Committee or here, 2.870 billion expected at the end of 2018. That's the figure in the budget, on page 38. So, a debt of 2,871 billion, expected debt at the end of 2018. In relative terms, as a percentage of GDP, we expect the debt to fall from 62.8% of GDP with a state at 30 November to 61.8% at the end of this year. So, by 1%, the debt will fall further. It's only 1.8% above the Mastricht, and we expect to cross that line, that it's going to be smaller than this. As for the cost of the debt, all the fronts fell to us, according to detailed information. In the dinar amount between 5% and 6.54% are lower interest – five is at the lowest maturity of 53 weeks, and 6.54 has fallen to a 10-year term. In the euro, we fell slightly less, but it fell, from 2.4%, to 3%. And so on. The "Z-spread" that we pay when we're in debt, that's where we fell from 3.5% to 0.75%, so almost five times. The last thing that is very important, I don't know where you're from, which can create confusion and send the wrong information to both our public and our foreign observers, and that's information about so-called. IRS lists and everything else. I've seen in our paper these figures that you mention. Let me quote, my colleagues have now sent me in electronic form and I can give you the official EKOFIN report number 15429/17 since 5 December this year. So after those stories about who's going to be, what list, they've published the final list for every country, the reasons why it's on the list, and what they need to do to get off that list. 17 countries have been named, among them no Serbia, and they are: America, Samoa, Bahrain, Barbados, Grenada, Guam, North Korea, Macao, Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Namibia, Palau, Panama, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates. There's no Serbia here. (Zoran Zivkovic: It is a gray list. The gray leaf is in your head, sir. Look at this document.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26940	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26941	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished presidents, respected ministers, the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will fully support this set of financial laws, as well as the proposed 2018 budget. The reasons for our attitude is that this is one in a number of quality, free to say household budget proposals in the last five years. This attitude towards the budget shows that Serbia has taken a decisive and stable step to come out of the life of the mud that we were dragged into until 2012, showing that Serbia has begun to heal the wounds that the former regime has inflicted on it by robbing privatisation, mass layoffs of workers, crime, corruption, the devastation of budgets and budget funds, by borrowing and bringing the state to the brink of bankruptcy and poverty. Here are two days, as long as the debate in this room is taking place, but also the address of our fellow opposition MPs to media representatives in the Assembly's hall, I must note that I have failed to hear any fundamental remarks about this budget. All these remarks are completely political and represent either unargumented criticisms of the budget, or the colourful lies and empty promises of those who had more than a decade to do something for this state and people, but right now, when they left with power, after-smart intelligence enriched, they remembered the interests of citizens and states, they remembered that it was possible and necessary to work in the interests of the people. All their lies and empty stories have nothing to do with reality, or what this budget should represent. Two days later, we have the opportunity to listen to the pangs of political penitents who are willing to promise everything and swear to everything in order to get a chance to spend another day in power. All this would have been idyllic for them if their return to power had not been decided by the citizens, more precisely by those who five and a half years ago, because of their pride, corruption and crime, once and for all, had driven them into opposition. The proposed Budget Act for 2018 gives us a clear picture of the balanced revenue and expenditure, so that the total revenue for next year is 1,178 billion dinars and total expenditures of 1,207 billion dinars. The planned fiscal deficit for next year is 0.6% of GDP, or 28.4 billion dinars, which is 40.7 billion dinars lower than the budget deficits planned for this year and is also the lowest budget deficit in the last few decades. The 2018 budget is extremely well measured, as was the previous two or three budgets, and is planned on the basis of a projection that the real growth rate next year will be 3.5% of GDP. What we must praise on this occasion is the fact that this year's surplus in the budget was a record deficit of about 2%, and besides the space for higher wages and pensions in the following year, more money was provided for investment, which shows the development side of this budget, so 128.3 billion dinars are foreseen for capital investments in 2018, most of which are intended for investment in infrastructure. As I mention the increase in earnings and pensions, I would like to point out that the increase in wages and pensions in next year is essentially the reward for introduced fiscal discipline and the results achieved over the last three years of reforms. All this shows that all the measures taken, which were often even politically unpopular and many of them did not come to the full support of citizens, were justified, helped to achieve excellent results and that we can all be extremely satisfied now. Of course, this must not lead to us being swept away and that during 2018 it is necessary to pay maximum attention to maintaining the achieved macroeconomic stability, continuing to apply fiscal consolidation measures, as well as further reducing public debt participation in GDP, which was successfully launched last year. What all Serbian citizens expect from the current Republic government in 2018 is an even greater number of investments, both foreign and domestic, an even greater number of new jobs, new pension increases and profits, but unlike the former regime's practices, increases that will be exclusively from real sources. What can be seen in this draft budget, and what I am extremely looking forward to, is the government's responsible policy towards the defence portfolio, according to the Serbian Army, and most of all its members, which is the opposite of the period of rule of the former regime, which in public has advocated that it wants an effective, mobile and modern army, and since the first day actively worked on its weakness, destroying a number of arsenals of weapons, while forcing a professional and experienced officer when, in the best years, most of all, the heroes of defence against NATO aggression. The draft budget for the defence ministry's needs during 2018 has increased by 11.6 billion, as much as 25% over the previous years, so the proposal now amounts to around 70.5 billion dinars. Thus, the planned budget of the ministry will have a social and developmental character, as most of the funds are designed to raise Serbia's military standards through salary increases, then to continue housing, and significant funds have been allocated for the continuation of Serbia's Army's equipment, maintenance and remonting techniques, as well as investment in military facilities and recovery of the dedicated industry. Earnings for all professional soldiers to the rank of majors, employees of the Serbian Army in the next 2018 will be increased by 10%, and each soldier will enter the new year with a new set of uniforms and boots. An amount of 13.2 billion dinars has been allocated to Serbia's Army in the coming financial year, which is more than nine billion dinars this year, and what is also extremely important is the fact that more than one billion dinars have been identified for scientific research. The issue of military standards is a statement by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who announced a few days ago that all employees in the security sector, which means in Serbia's military, will receive a bonus of 10,000 dinars by the end of the year, but that future incomes will also be increased in continuity year after year. At the end of this exhibition, it is a great pleasure for me to realize that the current Republic government has continued to implement the policy of the previous two governments, a policy drawn up by the current Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and has once again shown how much it cares about all Serbian citizens, especially those who worry about our security and security day and how much it cares about her to keep her independence, independence, as well as military neutrality policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26942	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26943	Unfortunately, here we could now see an example not only of malice, but of the complete ignorance of the matter spoken of. Not only are we talking about that the font has always been the same in the Assembly, whoever is ruling this Assembly, so that there is talk of how apparently our secret service is not on its site or budget precisely defined divisions, and that they have other services, which is, of course, a notorous lie, because none of the only serious services talk about such things on websites or in the public. For this, there are competent congregation committees that exercise the control of the ministry. There are even competent budget inspections that control money spending. So, it's all there. But expecting our service to go out with such information in public would be the same as expecting the American CIA to come out with the data that it cost October 5th and what it cost to burn down this assembly. When we haven't seen it, we won't see anything else. You know, the speaker said that the ministers without portfolio were some shame and shame, and he forgot that he had five vice-presidents without portfolio at his time -- Korać, Kasu, Jovanovic, Isakovic, Covic and Dusan Mihajlovic. Of that, only Dusan Mihajlovic was the minister. Everyone else didn't have any, of course, duty, but, look, it certainly forgot. The complete ignorance of matter and what is said here speaks of not knowing what the strategy of defence and national security is. The strategies of defence and national security are, here, we have a general who can confirm that, certainly, the widest doctrinal documents that don't talk about the equipment plan. The equipment plan is brought by the Chief of Staff and adopted by the Secretary of Defense and then delivered further. Just so you know, the army's equipment plan, on which the MiGs were obtained, and I don't believe there's a Serb who wasn't happy about getting the MiGs and who isn't looking forward to us strengthening our army, was brought in 2014 and has been changed three times since then. The defence and national security strategy was adopted in 2009, therefore, right during the DOS government, and we hope that there will be time to change it by the end of this year because it simply does not meet the needs of time and cannot be more than that. So, what are we looking for here? Here we are looking for a continuation of the policy that destroyed the army. Here we are looking for a continuation of the policy, which in 2012, when Aleksandar Vucic became defence minister, was forever interrupted. It is required that the army continue to destroy its equipment, its weapons. The army is required to reduce its combat composition and further. An army is required to drive out of its ranks of every fighter. We are asked to drive out of our ranks all those who extradited and sent at that time to anyone who asked for it. Defence strategies in this country were brought by foreign army officers, not brought by Serbian officers, and now brought by Serbian officers and it is quite understandable that they oppose it. This army will not destroy any more tanks, will not banish any officers, will never be ashamed of their soldiers ever again. Of course they think that's why you're attacking us. If you believed, at a time when you had absolute authority, that there would never be a war, that there was no threat, that there was no danger, that you had not abolished the army, that you kept it? The army serves only one thing: to prepare for war and to serve nothing else. If the war will never be, as you say here, and if the war should never have been, as you thought at the time of your absolute authority, so why didn't you end it? Why weren't you consistent? Then what were you preparing her for? If we're not supposed to arm the army, then let's disband it. Then it's not 70 billion, as far as we got, but seven million is too much. What do we need it for? The army serves only one thing to prepare for war, and it's political to avoid war as much as it can. It is, therefore, the job of politicians, and the job of army politicians is to make the army powerful, to be strong, to be satisfied, to be armed. Of course, we're all looking forward to getting the MiGs and of course the MIAs were brought in according to the equipment plan. You know, we witnessed how the army stood still and watched Kosovo and Metohija burn on 17 March 2004, we witnessed how the Martian pogrom was conducted, the military did not react, the state did not react, politics did not react. We watched Kosovo declare independence, did not react, it kept quiet. That's why a powerful and powerful army is being made, so that it doesn't happen again, that nothing like that ever happens to anyone else. If you don't need an army, then shut it down, but until you cut it off, it's gonna be armed, it's gonna have bigger wages, it's gonna work and it's gonna advance. I know that you are truly sorry that this is the historic largest budget in history since 2000, when it comes to the Serbian Army. I know you're sorry. Of course you're sorry you failed to complete the process of destroying the army, I know you're sorry, but you failed. You failed to destroy it. As you hear from the army's representatives when they speak of your times, they speak of the times when they ordered them to do what they commanded, when they ordered them to stop being an army. That's why they did it. There won't be any more of that now. This is a Serb army that will be proud of its state, and our country is proud of it. Of course we will arm ourselves according to clear plans, the plans are clear, accessible to whom they should be available, in accordance with this country's policy, in accordance with the needs of this people. The need of this people is to have a strong army. These are not the times when Serbia is said to have no enemies, we will never war again, we cannot say it and we do not know it. I'll remind you of a statement from a foreign minister at the time of the Dossow government that abolished the encryption of our telegrams and said - we have no secrets in front of our friends. We've been the only country in the world that's shut down the telegram encryption, and let me remind you that we've abolished the SID, the foreign ministry's security service, because we don't have secrets for our friends. Well, we're not the only country in the world that won't develop its own security system. We will develop, we will strengthen, we will arm, and for the great pleasure of all members of the army, but every citizen of this country. Salaries have been increased in the military, diaries have been increased in the military, solidarity aid has been introduced, for the first time in the military. Army members can look forward to having other members of the security sector mass housing, where they will be able to expect to get first apartments in the next three years. Everything they haven't had so far. You could have done all that. You didn't do it, and you only worked on destroying the army, and you only worked on breaking up the officer's staff and destroying the army's weapons. Why didn't you get those MiGs at a time when you could do anything? Or why you didn't get phantoms at a time when you could do anything, I'm not even making a question. There could've been another plane coming, there's no MIG, there could've been an F-16. Why didn't you look for him? Why didn't you bring one tank in? One, just one? Why didn't you bring a tank into arms? Only one and nothing else. Why did you disintegrate all the officers who were worth it? All officers who have passed wars and battlefields systematically destroyed and banished. Sending someone... If they lost those wars... (People MP Radoslav Milojic throws all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26944	I'll have to give you a warning if you keep yelling.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26945	Why doesn't the military-technical agreement read as a capitulation, but it says, "interruption of hostilities"? Why doesn't it say capitulation, but an end to enmity with clear rights and obligations that our country has, but which also has an international community. Unfortunately, the international community did not hold on to what we signed, and we did, and we certainly did. This has shown, as you can see, a complete lack of knowledge of matter, but unfortunately, malice towards the military. When can you think that arming our army is a bad thing? Arming our army? So, what else do we have to do? You could have disbanded the army, not disbanded it, if you believed there was no enemy and there would be no war. The officers who were then involved in the adoption of the Defence Strategy speak loudly today what they had to keep quiet, to grind their teeth, but at least they fought for it. You know, that defense strategy was supposed to write -- no aggressors, no enemies, no opponents. So when an opponent comes to our country, not the enemy, not the aggressor. They barely fought to keep the word of the enemy. They barely fought, as if the one who comes to occupy your country could be your opponent. Well, we're not playing football, he's coming to occupy your country, to destroy your way of life, to destroy your country. You called him an opponent. The army barely fought to at least write an enemy. A abolished morale, abolished the Civil Defense Administration. Nowhere in the world, when you introduce a professional army, the professional army is smaller and should be better trained. One professional soldier should replace four unprofessional soldiers. No army when it does so removes the widespread training of the population, as there is no other way, except for the Serb army, other than the army of that time, which abolished civil defence. She canceled, so she canceled the defense preparations. They didn't do anything else, they watched how to reduce the military's battlelock, how to make it impossible to defend it, how it's impossible to defend this country. That's what they were doing. Now you're listening to them rebel because the army is getting ready and armed. Well, it's better than equipment and weapons. Most importantly, weapons are weapons, but people are the most important. We raise their standards and restore self-esteem. These people couldn't get into the Academy. They couldn't celebrate their unit's day in one of the military buildings, they were gathering in the pubs. They weren't allowed in, they weren't allowed in the barracks, they weren't allowed in the House of the Army, and they spent their lives in the army and gave everything for it. That's what it looked like, and now we've come to complain because the army is getting stronger and stronger. It just tells me that we're on the right track, doing a good thing, that our army and how there's a reason to be equipped. You know, when you look at our environment, many countries buy weapons, even members of one of the more powerful military alliances, it's a question of why they're arming themselves, who are they protecting themselves from? Are they protecting themselves from Serbia? From our little peaceful country? Who are they protecting from?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26946	I'm asking the Minister to bring the presentation to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26947	Excuse me. Who are they arming for? When Serbia is as a military neutral country of equipment, it must be equipped because at a moment of trouble it will be all alone and therefore we must be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26948	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break in duration... (Radoslav Milojic: By the Rules of Procedure, President, please. I'll finish the sentence after all. I'm setting a break for one hour and we're going to continue at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] We can keep going. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26950	Now not all of the members of the government who were here before we broke up, for some damage, for some good, which aren't, and I'm going to try to talk about as many laws as possible, which are on the agenda today, not just about the budget, not because I don't think the budget matters, but I think the other laws that are in this package are equally important. I remind you, 31 points of the agenda, 27 of it by emergency procedure. Why am I repeating this? Because the Prime Minister who didn't come to you, unfortunately, has promised parliament that she will personally advocate that all laws go through a public debate before entering the procedure. She said that in October of the month. Here, at the beginning of December, two months out of those words, we see that she lied and that there is no public debate, not just about the budget, but about the shines of these other laws that are before us. Why and what do these laws hide? They're mostly hiding the ride, and they don't like members of the government, and these laws come down to a delay in deadlines. The law on the regulation of courts, the deadline for the application of the law for a year, is postponed. Budgetary system law, resuming some deadlines. The Public Property Act, which has already been extended by the end of 2017, was first extended in 2015 and extended to 2017, to report local self-government to take over property management in its territory, now extends by another three years. In a situation where local self-government has a problem with finance, they give up opportunities to take over property, manage it, and earn profits by filling their budgets. Who's responsible for that? Who is responsible for such a situation in local self-government if not party to the ruling regime? The foreign savings law, where the start of payment was planned for 31 August 2018, is now moving for another year. And most importantly, of course, the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, which puts off the application of payment classes for another year, because, among other things, the Government has extended the deadline it has given itself. Last year we also had a debate on the law, and the government was also almost in the same composition as today, coming here and asking for the deadline from 1 January 2017, to be extended to 1 January 2018, and now comes with a proposal to extend it to 1 January 2019. What was the minister doing in charge of local self-government and state administration? This pay grade story takes me from 2014 to remind you, five years, from the story to the beginning of application, but I'm not sure it's going to happen on January 1, 2019, as you are now proposing, are you going to come back to parliament and ask for a new prolonging, counting here that no one has a memory for more than three days. I found it particularly interesting, for example, that the minister did not say a single word about it, otherwise only Minister Vujovic has presented the laws so far. Other ministers have not given reasons for the laws from their resolutions that we are discussing today. The law on republican and administrative fees is a very large document, where hundreds and hundreds of new taxis are introduced, a taxi is being changed. I tried to find something interesting in this law. So let's say, the fee for passing the boat management exams has been 810 dinars so far, and now it's increasing to 4,500 dinars, that's five and a half times, for one category, or to 6,310 dinars, that's eight times, that's how much you increase the tax. In rail traffic, there were two fees of 22,880 dinars, and now over 50 different taxis are being introduced. So 100 to 260,000 dinars. Liner transport, there were three fees, and now 30 new taxis, different amounts. Why am I saying this? Because one of the remarks of the economy is too much parafiscal burden on the economy, too many taxis. Now, in this law that neither the minister has said a word, hundreds of new taxis are being introduced. Look at the size of that, over 200 pages. What's most interesting about this law is the government's right to bring the tax rate in line with the rise in prices to a little bit. So the government takes great care when it comes to the government's incomes. Under this law, by 30 April 2018, the government will have the right to increase these fees in line with the rise in prices to a small extent. Is he gonna do the same thing with pensions? Is he gonna do the same thing with pay, with social benefits? He won't. They won't, because the government doesn't care about the citizens, it takes care of itself. The minister said something about how important the Commercial transaction law is to him. I understand why it's important and I agree that order should be introduced. But let's see what the history of this law is, how it's been implemented so far, is it an amendment to the law? The law was passed five years ago, at the end of 2012, and that the balance which was at the time was due, the average fee of 134 days, was the average charge, it fell to 126 days at the beginning of 2014, so in mid-2015 it increased to 141 days and then came Minister Vujovic, in mid-2015 and said the same sentences he said yesterday, as it is important to introduce order, how the new law will now do so. What's the result, two years from the validity of the solutions so far and the Commercial transaction law? The result is that now the average is 139 days, from 141 days to 139 days. That's the result of two years of application of the law, the same minister sitting here who said exactly the same sentence yesterday as two years ago, I was watching the list here. Let's get on with the rebalancing. Rebalance is the only change of one member who says the extraordinary government has the right to grant bonus payments in 2017. We don't know, in fact, only when we're reading the law who's going to get it, but we see in the realisation of the public what the relationship of power in the government itself is. The only bonuses in 2017 will be given to members of the military and police. They won't get members, or people who work in education, won't get people who work in health care, and we think it's bad. If there was, or there is this famous surplus in the budget, and we can talk about how it happened, whether the increased billing or insufficient realization of projects planned in 2017, capital projects whose realisation is only 70%, does that budget surplus deserve only to be received by members of the military and police? We don't think so. They needed bonuses in 2017, if there is an surplus, to get both health care employees and educators. A law that no single word has been said about is a law on financial support for a family with children. We've been waiting for this law since 2014, almost four years. This proposal that finally came, it better not have come, that's my opinion. And why it's important, I repeat, because more than 30% of children in Serbia today are at risk of poverty, because in Serbia last year, 2016, at least babies have been born since World War I. This law is a backbone that needs the state to fight and change these two things. What solutions do we have? Here, I'm going to say, first of all, those solutions that we think are good, that recognized women from the village and that they can now and they can exercise their right to financial assistance in the birth of children, that in the future, directly from the budget to the bills of mothers and parents, they will be paid for maternity and childcare benefits. As it is good that other types of employment are recognised, other than a permanent working relationship, these are good things. But let's see what's wrong, and unfortunately that's much more. So the law no longer defines amounts for parental and child support. It was left to be the minister's decision, i.e. to prescribe the government on a proposal from the minister. The parental allowance for the first child is thus reportedly increasing to 100,000 dinars. That's what we heard, but it doesn't stand in this law. But the parental allowance will no longer be paid once, but within a period of two years and the question is whether it will justify the purpose it has. The account of employees' benefits during maternity leave is now calculated at 18 months, but in a way that you collect within 18 months the incomes on which taxes and contributions are paid and then the sum is divided into 18 and the monthly amount is then calculated as the gross basis for the payment of parental or maternity leave. So, a woman if she worked nine months before she went into maternity leave, she's going to count on that average for all she's received in those nine months, then she's going to split by 18, and then she's going to get it for the next year. Is that how we think we're dealing with a negative childbearing rate in Serbia? Is that how we economically empower women and economically strengthen families with children? We won't. The law ignores completely foster families. I repeat, the receipts account for net incomes that you get 18 months in various ways, and then what you get is divided by 18, so it's taken as a gross base. So, it further reduces what women are going to receive during maternity leave. The right to a child’s allowance is disabled if an asset that is not used or cannot be used because of a variety of other disputes or simply cannot be used. It is particularly scandalous in reason for the passing of this law, which is said to have been imposed in order to change because of the abuse of the rights under this law. I guess some others were meant to be motives, not abuse of use. And in the end, you sent us, Ministers, obviously, a working version of the law. If you look at Article 12 over there, you'll see points 4, 5 and 6 which are three, obviously working versions that you couldn't decide which one is going to be in the ultimate law resolution, because it says the same things in three different ways. When you read them, you do not know what the meaning of the law is, whether you have the right or not to have the right to speak in Article 12. The law does not define a materially endangered family as the basis for the exercise of rights in various other laws. And many other things. And now, let me say a few more sentences about the budget, because unfortunately I don't have enough time. First of all, the budget is non-transparent, 30 billion are spent on services per contract, completely arbitrary by the minister each individually. The budget is not software except on paper and the minister himself admitted it. I have been asking you ministers since 2014, or 2015, constantly - what is the implementation of the programme based on programming budgets? What's the analysis? Have the objectives of the programming budget been achieved? You yourself said we hadn't gotten there yet and that you've created an Interresor group that's now going to deal with making it different in the future. Four years since the adoption of the first programme budget in the Serbian Parliament. How can we talk about the budget and the planned GDP growth of 3.5% if we are not talking about the reasons why this year's 3% growth has not been achieved. The minister said three reasons are: drought, lack of energy production and mining and construction. What are the measures that Serbia plans with this budget to reduce the impact of drought on agriculture? What are those measures? I remember in 2014, the amount was reduced from a billion for irrigation to 200 million. I'm not in this budget to find out if there's any difference. Electricity production is the only reason for this is the unprofessional management of EPS and the collapse on spears that made it impossible to dig coal and that the “Nikola Tesla” thermal power plant produces planned quantities of electricity in February and March of the month, no winter, only intricacy. When are we going to get professional leadership, not only in the EPS, but in almost all public enterprises? We've got VDs everywhere. I remind you once again, in March this year was the final deadline not for the end of the competition, but for the election after the executive competition in public enterprises, according to the law proposed by this government and adopted by the Assembly. Construction, how come we have a fall now, if we're on, I don't know which place of the Duing Business List and everything is great, if we have Belgrade on the water, which will employ 30, 40,000 workers, allegedly, we've been listening here, how do we have a problem with construction? It's clear to me that that's where these 550-euro housing stories are going from now on. It's a new fairy tale again. What's in this budget and I think it's a shame for each of us if it doesn't get wiped out from the budget is a gondola project in Belgrade. It says, the budget should be separate, the Republika Srpska budget means the money of all citizens, in 2018, 360m dinars, threem euros, for the introduction of a new tourist offer and new video traffic in the city of Belgrade. So 360 million this year, and next year 840 million dinars. So tenm euros from the Republika Srpska budget and another fivem euros from Belgrade's budget. That's 15m euros for one gondola a mile away. I demand that this project be rejected, not implemented at this time. For 15m euros in the Republic of Serbia, we change the Law on Insemination. Let us rightly say that couples who cannot, except in this way, have offspring, have the right not only to have one child from artificial insemination, but to have the right to both the second and the third. Five thousand children are equivalent to the 15 million you intend to spend on a gondola that should go past Brank's bridge. It's a shame. It's a shame if we adopt something like that in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm calling you, I can't keep talking about other things from the budget, he'll talk to his colleagues if they arrive. Unfortunately, we won't talk about the amendments, because obviously the intention of the SNS MPs to make it impossible for us to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26951	Have you finished your presentation?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26952	I've been talking for 20 minutes, as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26953	I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26954	It's not understanding, it's respect for the Rules of Procedure, unlike others.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26955	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26956	When you spoke of these very important laws for 2018 and all the years ahead of us, to remind everyone that every item of the 2018 budget is a developmental item and since you mentioned the issue of growth of the social gross product, this is exactly what the great value of that budget might be compared to many previous ones, without talking about the budget five, six, seven, eight, nine and ten years ago, when, to remind the Serbian public once again, we had rebalancing 10, 15 times over the year. So this is one responsible budget especially in relation to investments that are necessary and very important when we talk about the growth of construction, the growth of social gross products that you mentioned. Since you mentioned the growth of construction, i.e. the problems you see in construction, and you also mentioned this in another way through the “Duing Business List” and the fact that, behold, everything is wonderful and great, and we have a problem in construction. Now, let me tell you, "Duing Business List" of the World Bank is not a list made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but is a real World Bank, and in this sense ranks the countries of the world, 190 countries of the world. While you were in power, we were 186 on that list after the building permits were issued. There were only countries behind us where civil wars took place. It was in your time. In our time, Serbia today is 10th in the world after the issue of construction permits and it is not just obtained, but precisely by huge investment in infrastructure and by reducing the taxis you also mentioned through one of the laws. In this bill, the draft law on administrative fees reduces many parafiscal burdens. Seven taxis are being reduced in the area of construction, primarily the fees paid for obtaining a used permit. Nearly 7% of the value of the property is this tax. You can imagine what that money was that citizens were supposed to single out in the previous period. We have abolished this by this draft law and it will certainly enable us to move on not only to have as many objects that will finally have their own use of permits as we will allow investors to invest further. You mentioned the railway, just for information, for the sake of public knowledge that on 1 December we adopted compensations for using public railway infrastructure for the order of driving 2018/2019, that the amount of this fee is lower by 8% in passenger traffic and 5% in freight compared to the order of 2016/2017 years. You also mentioned gondola. I'm guessing for some reason you didn't say that tourism revenue last year was over a billion euros. That's something some of them could have dreamed of five years ago. Today it's a reality in Serbia. So in Serbia tourism is also a developmental activity and we should invest as much as we can, especially aware of all the analyses that show us that Serbia can make revenue from tourism close to five billion euros over the next five years. So, having a gondola not one, but wherever it is possible, and with an estimate that we can secure more income than tourism, I think it can only lead to new employment and improvements for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26957	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26958	Same thing about gondolas. I must say, first of all, this is the Belgrade City project, which will realise Serbia's Ski resorts, that it still does not have the exact value of the whole project. In principle, it was agreed that two-thirds of the projects should be financed from the Republic's budget and one-third from the Belgrade City budget. At this point, a plan for detailed regulation and a major project for gondola is being done. Therefore, I would still refrain from exactly how much this gondola will cost. As Mrs Mihajlovic said, there is no doubt, both from the point of view of tourism and from the point of view of transport, this will be of paramount importance for the City of Belgrade. That gondola should carry 3,000 passengers an hour. It is now known that there will be a starting station at the mouth, and another station in Calemegdan, that there will be 30 cars carrying from 10 to 35 passengers. Therefore, if we speak purely touristically, this will be without a doubt a major tourist attraction, but will also play a transport role in the transport of passengers, i.e. citizens of Belgrade. Once again, at this point I wouldn't dare talk about the ultimate value of this whole project. When the City of Belgrade delivers us the whole project we'll see what the value of the project will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26959	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go. (Marco Djurisic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26960	Dear Ministers, MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as regards the 2018 budget and regarding the economic and economic measures foreseen in the budget, we believe that no improvements will be made, as a neoliberal policy that has been a feature of all authorities since 2000 is still being implemented. The people of Serbia have fallen into collective depression a long time ago, as can be seen from how many young people leave Serbia and how many young people do not see the perspective of life in Serbia, so that everything that certain mags for statistics, such as the director of the Statistics Institute, Mr Kovacevic, are working, will hardly convince someone that the situation in Serbia can be fixed with this budget and that is why we do not see enthusiasm here with the government's representatives as was the case last year. Some of the things in the budget could thus reflect the government's attitude towards individual institutions of the Republic of Serbia. One example is that the budget for the Serbian Parliament has been reduced by nearly a billion and 300 million dinars, and the government budget has increased by five billion dinars last year, which apparently says government representatives don't care how the most legislative body works, and they don't care that workers working in the Serbian Assembly have extremely small salaries, which are twice as low as the republican average, they don't care what the driver's daily is when they go to the field of 150 dinars, and there used to be three thousand. These are things that show that essentially this government is not particularly interested in the middle layer and the lower layers of the population, but mainly in the elite. One thing that also fell for the eye, it's the Office for Co-operation with Russia and China. We currently have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which deals with diplomatic relations with countries abroad, we have the Ministry of Business, which in its jurisdiction has co-operation with Russia. We have the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia, which should develop relations with Russia, which unfortunately has failed to open in the last 10 years and this famous distribution centre for our producers. We are now out of this budget raising 50 million dinars for the Office of Co-operation with Russia and China. Unfortunately, the office has so far done nothing, except that 20 people who were part of the Foreign Ministry kicked out of a building in the street of Vasa Čapić, now located in the building of the MUP and who were one organ that was supposed to deal with five million Serbs living outside Serbia, placed in the premises of the MUP, and the building on the street of Vasa Čapić belonged to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, so that he would, I presume, be dealing with some personal business with business partners from China and Russia. This is evident from the items in the budget where nearly 40 million dinars are provided for either workers' salaries in that office or for travel expenses. So, no concrete projects exist on the co-operation of China and Russia, no positive effects will happen. I do not know why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not fulfilled its promise to open the Office for Co-operation with the Russian Federation, so that we will have the opportunity to improve economic development with Russia through a serious institution. That is why we should not be surprised that co-operation is, I am talking about business co-operation between Serbia and Russia, at such an extremely low level, when 50 million dinars are allocated to co-operation with Russia and China, and for the European Integration Ministry, a billion and 136 million dinars are allocated. So, the European Integration Ministry is working on an even bigger level, in the last term it was the Office for European Integration with a smaller budget, and now the budget is even bigger and is so invested in this famous co-operation with the EU and our EU accession, although I believe 90% of people here firmly believe that accession to the European Union will never occur. One thing that the Dvora movement has been dealing with for a long time, and I can freely say that we are the only political movement in the world that has put family, demographics and population policy into the political arena. There are also official recognitions of the World Family Congress, that a group of young people have managed to bring the subject of family, the problems of the white plague to the Serbian public. I am sorry here that the minister without a portfolio, represented by a serious Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, will have to listen to criticism from members of the Serbian Movement of the Dveri, because I would not want us to be violent, as people who are living on women, as we are presented in public, but I have to say some things about this ministry without a portfolio, which I don't think works the right way, because unfortunately, it does not point out the priorities to be dealt with by the Ministry. I would have gone, and I was talking about it yesterday, I would have come from the assumption of the great Russian writer Alexander Solzhenjcin, who said that only the country whose population is increasing is developing. If we consider it true, and I suppose we all agree with that, the fact is that the Republic of Serbia has been degraded for 15, 20 years in every sense, both demographic and economic and unfortunately political. The situation in which Serbia is present today is such that in the last 10 years we have 385 thousand people less. Someone here has already said that 1,000 babies have been born less in the past year. In 1920, 126,000 babies were born in Serbia, and about 65,000 were born last year. The birth rate per woman is 1.46. To direct this country by simply restoring itself to reproduction, we need two children per woman, and it would be especially good if the birth rate increased if each family in Serbia had an average of three inhabitants and then we could think about a positive natural growth. How do you get to that, Madam Minister? I'm afraid with your ministry's budget and strategy like this, we'll hardly be able to do anything. I absolutely understand when you two said a year ago that this is a new topic for you, that you haven't dealt with, even though you're a doctor by profession, this topic. But unfortunately, it is the responsibility of the government in which you are sitting and the responsibility of all governments in the past 2000, which did not seriously deal with demographics. That's why we have these devastating results. It is particularly devastating that in both the public media and the national service of the Republic of Serbia and the media that are on the national frequency, the marriage is constantly degraded, and we are witnessing a huge number of domestic violence, which is precisely due to this kind of media image created in the Serbian public. Another piece of information that contributes to this is that from 1986 to today, one third of marriages are less concluded than they were 30 years ago. So marriage is no longer the institution it should be, marriage is not an institution as defined by the UN as the basic cell of society, and that is all the consequence of which we have this situation in society, in terms of crime, in terms of juvenile delinquency, and unfortunately, on one of the most important issues, which is the departure of young people from Serbia, which God knows we will manage to solve this terrible problem. As for the specific budget and the financial resources that you have provided for under your Ministry of Population Policy and Demographic Problem, a point of 600 million dinars is listed here. We welcome as much as possible from the past budget, but it should be stated that half of these funds are intended for the Ministry's operational work, and only 300 million are listed for support with concrete measures. This is within some European standards nearly 10 times less than the allowed European states, in terms of GDP relations. These measures will hardly be able to bring improvement to population policy, because these are actually social measures. These aren't pro-family measures, so these are social measures for vulnerable populations. I can ask you here now what kind of convenience I have as a father of three children, and since my youngest child is six years old? Nothing. So, I have no help from this country specifically to develop my family and to improve our country's birthright. I'm sorry there's no sports minister Mr. Vanja Udovici, because we've heard our sport develop here. I ask him a question – what are the measures that the Ministry of Sports can bring, and that my friends and best friends who have three, four children do not pay for each child 2,000 dinars per month, for example. For football practice? What has the state of Serbia done to enable children to engage collectively in sports? Nothing. This is all about the success of our athletes. It's lucky that we're a talented nation. It's fortunate that there are people who have separated their private, family resources so that their children can succeed in sports. I can say that since I've been doing sports, I see the state of sports in my city, and I can freely say that the situation is catastrophic, which is seen by the number of Olympics coming from our cities. Also, the government's relationship with the family policy, we will say only some measures, continue to finance foreign companies, 12 billion dinars are set aside for foreign and domestic companies, which is 20 times more than the budget for the Ministry of the Family, 1.3 billion are allocated to the system of permanent assistance to migrants, 450 million dinars within the Ministry of Justice are separated for NGOs, and we all know that half of these NGOs are financed further from abroad and are working in Serbian interest and that most NGOs, not all, have been a major factor of political instability from 2000 to today. We can also mention two million euros for the fountain that the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia gave for the fountain in downtown Belgrade. That's almost as far away as it goes for population measures within your ministry. Some of the concrete things the Dvora Movement proposes, not only to criticise the state of demographics, although it is free to say that the situation is extremely bad what these data are saying, are some concrete measures that certain EU countries have dealt with and implemented in action. We here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted a declaration on the protection of the family that entered the procedure of 17.10.2017 and for which of the Ministry of Health, by Mr Loncar, I was particularly surprised that he positively assessed this declaration and said that the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the family in Serbia was in agreement with the applicable regulations and strategies of the Ministry of Health. Surely there is awareness of how serious this thing is, but there is certainly and extremely much space to measure the catastrophic demographic situation in which Serbia is being repaired. The concrete measures the Dvora movement has proposed... I will list some measures for both you and the citizens of Serbia to know that the situation can be improved. The first measure is tax reform in favour of families, the second measure is more direct and indirect financial assistance and the third measure is to obtain a family home. As for the first measure - tax reform for the benefit of families, we put in our declaration that a reduction of the tax base for calculating the income tax is necessary. People who are married, 25% would be stripped of the basics of gross wages, for the first child 50%, for the second child 75% and for the third child 100%, which means that the parents of three and more children would not pay taxes on earnings. These are some concrete measures that many countries in Europe and the world have already applied, not to quote Hungary, not to quote Russia, so it can. Which would mean that if married couples had an average of 48,000 salaries, they would save 17.880 dinars per month on behalf of taxes and contributions. So our government with concrete measures should also convince the citizens of Serbia that those people with decades of families, these are not only measures for decades of families, but it means that for each child, the rate of taxes is reduced, that they will live better, that they will have more money left in their home budget. These are concrete measures. Why would young people choose to marry, create a family and be the factor that will improve the demographic position of the Serbian people? You've had reports from the U.S. intelligence agency, which is following the state perfectly, they know what's happening to us in every ministry. What happens to us in 2050? What's gonna happen to us in 2050 and how many of us are gonna be? So these are US intelligence reports, and this has already happened to us about KIM, and we talked about it yesterday, but fortunately today, KIM's greatest talent is amongst Serbian lives, and today every young Kosovo family has three or four children. It is a perspective and that is the future that Kosovo will never be Cypriot and Albanian. The second measure, more direct and indirect financial assistance, we talked about a child's supplement that must not be a measure for socially endangered families. In Russia, there is a maternal capital of 10,000 euros a month, which is given to families that have two and more children. The measure has been going on since 2007 and eight and a half million Russian families have entered. Imagine now how much Putin and how much Russian state has singled out the money from its budget, taken from Deripasca and other tycoons, bankers to improve the birth rate in Russia. So there's a possibility and it needs to be done by the government. If not this one, I'm sure she'll make some future person think about it. In this way, in continuity, not only for two years, I have already said that people whose youngest child, whose youngest child, for five years have no help from the state, would be financed by families of children up to 18 years of age and must find funds in the budget. Here we have shown in the case, when given for some foreigners, for Fiat, for Etyhad, who have destroyed our domestic production, and not given for what will bring us the future both in the economy and in the state plan. Third measure – getting a family home. I ask a question to all the MPs here who live on one salary, MPs, how can they possibly buy an apartment in Novi Sad or Belgrade in a fair way? Can someone today be paid, is that salary 90 grand, 50 grand, to buy an apartment, unless they get into a loan and a problem with banks that have destroyed and kicked many families out of their apartments? Thus, it is also necessary to build a family home for all young couples, since this is an indication that this is a fundamental problem why young people will not decide to take that step, because of these doubts about finance, to enter the marriage community. It is necessary to subsidise interest from the state in the first three years of repayment of credit, and during that period the young couple will pay only the war relating to the principal of the housing loan. According to the dynamics given in the table, a married couple will be freed from paying interest on a housing loan for each newborn child, for a second child for another two years, for a third child another three, for a fourth another five years they will be released from these items. These are concrete measures that can lead young couples to decide to enter into the story of buying apartments and to give birth to children, of course, not to be slaves of bankers, to be slaves of foreign companies working for 25 and 30 thousand dinars. Because of this, the Dvora movement, which came to the Serbian Parliament in the voices of family people, in the voices of middle-generation young and educated people, must represent these ideas in the Serbian Parliament, to defend them and make sure that some politicians, specifically ruling people in this country, who say Dvori will be expelled from parliament in the next parliamentary elections. As long as there are young people who want to live in this Serbia, the Dvori movement will always be in the Republika Srpska Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26961	The word is made by MP Aleksandra Tomic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26962	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 has been injured. - the dignity of the National Assembly. From the presentation of the previous speaker, I don't think you've responded, and you probably haven't come from the amount of information that simply has nothing to do with life, because population policy can't be the subject of day-to-day political collection of Dveri points. If we're talking about the National Assembly budget that's smaller by a billion dinars, then it should be known that it's an integral part of the RIK budget. Since we have had presidential elections this year, these expenses for next year do not exist, not to say that reduced taxes, contributions, salaries and giving to people working in the National Assembly of Serbia, and then they should know that the RIK budget is an integral part of Serbia's budget, not that women who work in RIK are hurting you, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26963	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26964	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that Serbia's better demographic future is the goal of all of us, is not a dispute, but it takes some knowledge, some wisdom, patience to do the job right, and that in about 10 years' time, the demographics say, it takes to see if we've taken good steps. This is really necessary, and it is the premise that I warn lawmakers who are impatient and who are slightly political and short-sighted and family, neglecting human rights and Serbia's future, neglecting the possibility of being and being mistaken. The theme is, of course, the budget. I must say that this government, thanks to the very clear position of the current president, then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, is the first government to form a portfolio in charge of demographics in the government. That resort has very clear tasks. The basic task is an integral function, not only of the ministries, but of all entities in Serbia, of all individuals who have great authority in this area to work on a better demographic future. So we included the Academy of Science, the Institute of Social Works. We have a council on population policy, led by Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic, and I really think that, more than seriously, for the first time in the drawer from 2008 to 2016, until the formation of this resort, it has received what is called a practical instruction on what to do. For the first time in this year, we have made an action plan, expanded the activities of the Strategy to promote birth, migration issues, whose witnesses, on the one hand, and the fact that our human age is extended, that is to say that we are ageing as a nation and all of these elements are taken into account when we have created a strategy to encourage the birth that is innovated. The budget, which, for the first time in 2016, amounted to 130,000,000, made it possible for Serbia to make grants to 15 municipalities for the first time, in order, in accordance with cultural differences in our Serbia, to apply certain innovative measures in these environments and to create a standard that would oblige all of us to behave more seriously based on this experience. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not operate so that the cabinet or ministry is an isolated island in an ocean. You know, here, on the one hand and on the other, where I'm sitting right now are ministers who and how they work most intelligently, and 600,000, and that's about five times as much as the previous year, as far as we got, is not the only sum that goes into the ultimate policy. The Minister of Culture and Information, which is our Office in collaboration with him, announced a public call on December 4th, we choose one slogan. You will say – well, one sentence, one slogan is not important, but parallel experiences with countries that are very well-being shows that the slogan in the media campaign is very important and on December 19th will end this competition and we will actually have a chance to get first, second and third prized with sums of money that are of course symbolic, but the slogan itself should be clear, encouraged, that it contains the most creative idea. On my left is a minister who, of course, has his activities, with everything that belongs to the economy, gives us information that in the 16th year we received 60,000 new jobs. Among them are most parents and future parents. In 183 households, the Minister of Agriculture has introduced certain innovative activities, including 10,000 euros in stimulating, 683, I think I said exactly. The co-operation of our Office with the Minister of Education has resulted in the fact that already this school year in the fifth grade of primary school is a completely new subject – physical and health education, which has knowledge of reproductive health in its content, which is also an essential measure. About the Minister of Health and his activities, related to the participation of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, that the biomedically assisted fertilisation is supported for women up to 42 years, who want to do so with three attempts at these procedures and on the amount of money that has been allocated in that segment, and I also have no intention to elaborate longer. I would also like to say that Minister Djordjevic brought together a great team and enthusiasts and experts, and we all worked together on the Family Financial Support Act, where for the first time a woman from a village who is an insurance company, with that woman, a girl who works on jobs for a certain time, who has been engaged in temporary and occasional contracts with a woman who is in a permanent working relationship with regard to maternity leave and financial giving. So, what this resort is, to say for it, what 600,000 is supposed to be, it's just a drop in what the government really does as one of the most intelligent political-oriented government, family-oriented, which will, of course, always stimulate those employers who have socially responsible behaviour towards parents and future parents. The fact that it takes every woman in a fertilized period to have two children is correct, that was quite correct. In order to restore ourselves in the many states we are in right now, we should know that among women who are 11% of women should have one child, 44% of two children, 45% of three children, 10%, unfortunately, a woman has a problem, or couples, sterility. Therefore, an integrated approach to this problem, which cannot be tied to any ministry, to any segment, is necessary for all those who want to deal seriously with these issues. I was offered yesterday to think about resigning. Never! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26965	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26966	I thank the chairman. Dear MPs, I would only like to add one thing from the presentation of my colleague, which is that the seriousness of this government when it comes to demographics shows the fact that in the previous term, while the Prime Minister was Alexander Vukic was formed and the Council of Demography that this Council would be a body that would coordinate and make sure that Serbia at one point with its measures and all that he wanted to do comes out of mortality, from a negative natural origin and to get into plus. It is our desire to do so, and we have worked seriously on this law. The only fact in the previous exhibition that was true is that the rule will determine how and which amount will be paid, but it was precisely for the reason that the government would be effective in these measures, so that it could react promptly, not to go on changing the law, but in accordance with its capabilities, in line with economic possibilities, according to how it is a strategy that we can react without delay and in some way run that wheel and that Serbia in one period, and hopefully very quickly, has a natural growth that will be satisfactory plus. What was not true in that presentation is that the first child will be paid in wars. First child and first child's compensation will be paid in full. Those other wars for the second, third and fourth ones will be paid into 24 wars, with them increased in the first war by 5,000 dinars, which was a co-op for equipment. That's one piece of news, and that's one supplement that the whole rulebook predicted. Besides, there are a number of other things. We noticed that earlier sickness benefits that went through the employer often came late to the mother. Now this law provides for compensation to be paid directly to the mother, unlike some earlier times. And it's also incorrectly interpreted, not taking 50% and not dividing by what kind of mathematics, because I don't even know if the law's been read at all. The law stipulates that the 12 months of last work is divided by the past work and that the maternity family gets the same amount. Unless the maternity leave worked for 12 months, in this case it is taken 50% of the average salary as an average for the month. That's the only difference, and that's as opposed to 2007 by 100% more than this government gives to the government in 2007. What is the difference and concern compared to 2007 is the fact that this government for the protection of families and children amounts to 54.3 billion or at today's rate of 457m euros, and in 2007, it singles out 21.3 billion or at 261m euros, which means that when it comes to family and children, it gives almost 90% of the budget for that very purpose. It's not just that. It's only in this ministry. There is, as you have spoken, and a ministry run by my colleague where she has extra money for it, and we want it to not end on this. I believe, given that in this year, the government has given the family and children 2.2 billion more compared to the last year, that each of the following will certainly be better for mothers and children and that Serbia will certainly move forward at some point and I believe very quickly in the plus, and that this law will show all its advantages very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26967	Thank you. If no one answers, should I switch to the list or have more? Okay. (Marco Djurisic: Replica. Don't lie... Bre? Who are you throwing at now? I'm talking to the minister. I'm the only one who didn't get a line. The minister isn't telling the truth. There's always someone who doesn't give you anything. I'm shocked. You've been talking for 20 minutes like all the other MPs. All the time, Calimer some. No grounds, no insults. You wrote that Rules of Procedure. I don't have time for this. We're discussing serious matters. (Marko Djurisic: I don't either. I'm just saying he's not telling the truth. We're not at the market. MP, calm down, take a break if you're not feeling well, if you're aggressive. Let us work. (Marco Djurisic: Take you. How can he lie? Shame on you. Please calm down. If there's anyone in the MP's group, help your MP calm down, so he doesn't insult us and let us do serious work. (Marco Djurisic: I don't need any help. I'm saying he's telling the truth. I give you a warning because you do not allow us to work and insult you here. Behave yourself. I give you another warning because you are obstructing the work of Parliament. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Marko Djurisic: Shame on you. Only when you're not ashamed. George Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26968	Thank you. Mr. Vujović, gentlemen of the Ministers, as you can see, I came in cold because I saw you with a travel bag, so I was worried that you'd be leaving, that you'd be leaving, so I won't have a chance to exchange with you for a word, and so far we've mostly talked well, even if you don't agree in general. In fact, we disagree on the concept of Mr Vujovic, although I must admit it would be much worse if you left, so don't come back, and then Mr. Vukic brings us some new miracle from the child, like the already forgotten Lazar Krstic. So in that sense, we at least know what we're on, and we know what we can count on. Anyway, I'll split my time in two. Now I'm going to focus on a few direct and concrete questions. You see, Mr. Vujovic, this pile on my right is material for today's session, complete material for today's session. In doing so, one is printed with a larger font, and there are still tables that can't be understood, so I have no intention of making an illusion that I could have and that anyone could have mastered it all. That's why we're going on specifics, especially with regard to your exposure yesterday, which I listened very carefully to. In that sense, I totally understand, it's not easy to talk when there's this noise, is it, when you were reacting yesterday? Unfortunately, that's right, it's our congregation atmosphere and we have to work on it. I prefer it when it's a little quieter. You two or three times during your presentation yesterday said the results were better, I quote – than you expected, you said they were much better in every way. I mean, this year's results. You're probably thinking of the deficit budget, but when you say it, then it sounds a little problematic, because then you might think it was generally applied, but you know as well as I do that GDP has grown much less, that it's barely over 1%, and now we're hoping it'll be 2% by the end of the year or it'll be 1.9% by the end of the year. Expected, programmed growth was 3%. You've looked back at some moments and some possible factors. The opposition colleagues have told you what they think about it, I would not say it is possible to transfer everything to drought, not to winter, nor to poor atmospheric opportunities on the EPS spears in January and February. So I think there are systemic reasons and I think you're aware of that. We cannot say that we are satisfied in every respect when GDP growth is double as expected. This optimistic projection of only 0.6% of next year's deficit was projected at 3.5% GDP growth estimates. A 3.5% growth is expected, and then the deficit will be this way. Are you convinced that this growth will indeed be so much, given the expectations mentioned when it comes to 2017. In other words, and specifically, on the basis of which estimates, based on which factors, other than the belief that God will help, will not be a very cold winter and there will be no drought, so by which other elements can you say that we expect a 3.5% growth this year, when we haven't even reached two? From a set of these draft laws, I'd be wrong about the spirit if I said nothing was right and nothing was right. In that sense, I would say that me and my colleagues will vote in favour of this rebalancing process, which provides for the payment of bonuses to people from the security sector, the military and the police. They certainly deserved it, as other employees have earned in all other sectors. I don't think it's a good way to double public sector employees, but I guess the idea was, since they were raised less, so now they're trying to make up for that backlog. My second and very specific question is – why didn't you go to the cuts in wages and pensions? So it expires in 2017, why isn't it lifted, why isn't it officially abolished? You'll probably say there's no need, because you raised 5%, then 4%, then 1%, so it's kind of analized. I'm asking you not for any political or demagogue reasons, but because I, like you, and I see the Fiscal Council, has been thinking in a similar direction, colleagues from the Fiscal Council have had similar concerns or similar opinions that are really threatening us, but above all it's about pensions. When it comes to wages, I don't suppose there's any help to those who are damaged by that measure. When it comes to pensions, we, perhaps you and I will not be there, whether among the living or not in these places where we are now, but it will not be long, our Constitutional Court or some European court will return, or order the return of those pension funds. I'm very confident about that. We'll see what happens. I'm saying the fiscal council has a similar dilemma. So, we're going to get those pensions back and those funds, like now, we're still going back to the old foreign currency savings and we're having trouble with that. It's not good that way, indirectly for some good point, for a little decorated or well-functioning budget, a minor deficit to burden future generations with certain duties that we won't be able to free ourselves of. I'm talking specifically about these pensions. I spoke to my colleagues, with different types of lawyers, almost everyone is sure that it will be abolished, either at the Constitutional Court, or at the European Court, but then on that. So that I don't move forward with this principle plan, I join the objections that seem petty, but they're not petty. This gondola thing, of course, there are other things, there are other problematic things, but this country funding a Belgrade gondola, it's just unwarranted. There's no reason, and I think personally, at least on the side of the budget is not a big item, but I repeat, it's 360 million in this and 860 million in next year. That's not small after all. If the city of Belgrade stands as well as is said, why doesn't the city of Belgrade build that gondola out of its means? Belgrade is a big city, the capital, has big revenues, as the poor state of Serbia with poor regions, parts of Serbia participate in the construction of Belgrade's gondola, even if it, as Minister Ljajic said, served and now I hear it for the first time, not for tourists but also for the transport of citizens, it is probably designed. If that's what it'll do, then come on, maybe there's some excuse. There may be an excuse to build, although some or many architects believe they will architecturally disrupt the city, but still, if it helps solve the traffic collapse in Belgrade, then fine. I don't think the citizens of Surdulica or any other city, the works of Serbia should in some way finance that Belgrade solves its traffic problem, traffic collapse. It should be resolved by the capital, with incomes that are enormous, at least for Serbian occasions. Lastly, I have to do something at Mrs. Mihajlović's expense, although we've been arguing about this highway already, but somehow you've been last time when there wasn't much time, so... The budget is now specifically allocated. One is the story, one is the project, one is the principle idea, and the other is when you talk about it. The Nis-Medare-Pristina highway, that's what I and some of my colleagues called the highway to great Albania, which may not be the case, but it certainly is the money for the first section of that highway. It is my assessment and assessment that there is no economic viability and that there are more political reasons for building this road, to facilitate the transfer of Albanian citizens and citizens of Albania and Kosovo to Western Europe. Except for two, three times a year, when they go, come or return from vacation, summer and winter, that direction is gone, that's what my colleagues and experts in the area say, there's no economic justification. It is political, because it was the desire or request of Angela Merkel and some other influential centres from Brussels and Berlin to build this highway and to in some way connect Albania with Central Europe. It can, but it doesn't have to be about the cost of Serbian citizens. The last thing, and literally the last thing, we heard here how much the Office of Co-operation with Russia and China costs, what it costs the European Integration Ministry. The disproportion is huge. For this one, the Office for Co-operation with Russia and China stands out about 50, 56 million dinars, and over a billion and 100 million are allocated to the Ministry of Eurointegration. Regardless of whether we are Eurosceptics or we are Russian or Chinese, I believe there is no real need for either office or ministry. We have enough ministries, enough resources in the foreign ministry and other ministries dealing with co-operation, economic co-operation, the development of the wider world, including these important countries, EU members, Russia and China. So, not to mention that I am speaking out of some pymium towards the EU, here, I am willing to sacrifice, conditionally, and this Office of Cooperation with Russia and China, and I don't believe that now that God knows how much to improve our relations with Russia and China, and these matters that make sense, out of the jurisdiction and the detour of the Office of Eurointegration, redistribute, as well as personnel, if they are necessary, and if they are, for example, indefinitely. It's not small, it's serious savings and it would be a good symbolic message. A team before the largest number of citizens of this country, as shown by the latest research, not by me but by the people of the nearby government and the current government, shows that even 40% of the citizens of this Serbia do not believe in the process of Eurointegration, and if they had relevant information, I believe that this percentage would be even lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26969	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26970	Thank you very much. I thank you, first of all, for the effort to read all these documents and to illustrate the questions that you have and the dilemmas that bother you, I suppose, and other proposed laws and budgets. We have the same questions. The greatest wisdom and the greatest difficulty is to measure the projection of real growth and the movement of so on. GDP deflator, so you don't go too far. If you go too far and put too much optimism into it, then you create a space for unrealistic expectations and thus increase the risk of the budget. We are deeply aware of it, and we accept every remark in that direction, because we have gone through these steps ourselves. So we're not doing this so easily. We're assessing the first three elements of GDP slowdown this year and we're talking about it openly. I've been looking at it with my colleagues and with Statistics, the main reasons for the slowdown are partly what we know exactly what sectors the disturbance occurred in, so we know that it happened in agriculture, we know that it happened in energy, or in electricity, and we know that it happened in construction. But the explanation for each of these three sectors is different and expectations after these reductions this year are different. Agriculture is because the nature of the assessment and movement of the assessment of newly created value in agriculture is such that it punishes you when you have a negative cycle. We also had the expected negative cycle since we had an extremely high production in 2016, so if it was normal in 2017, it would have happened if you had a fall. Since 2017 was above average hit by drought, then you have a decline that is above average. So he's pushing you into a cycle that has a very low, supposedly, lower part of the cycle, i.e. The valley. This is why we expect that next year we will have a return of that cycle in agriculture to normal, which will produce greater growth in agriculture, which is expected. In the long term, nothing will change, only the cycle will be a little deeper in these two years, and that is confirmed by both the statisticians and the people who know the entire agricultural sector. The second question - the movement of electricity production. There have already been corrective measures and Minister Antic can explain to you what has been done. They understood the reasons, and the reasons were both technological and managerial and managemental, both in the technical part and in the general part. And I think it's all these issues, and I think we can expect that the already existing resuscitation of electricity production will take place on planned dynamics and will find a way to protect them from such unexpected events in the future. So they must have carbon reserves and other ways to compensate for such unexpected events, as well as in all areas. Third district - construction. Right here with my colleague Mihajlovic, we're talking about it. We've had very intense and intense conversations with Statistics and in the area of construction there are several things. One is the implementation of the plan, and the other is the constant difference between the assessment of the sector's dynamics based on quarterly data and the final assessment of GDP, first the score of the score, and then the final assessment of the gross domestic product when the year goes by and when it is evaluated, three or four months later. So we expect two kinds of corrections to happen in construction. One is the correction of the so-called. The sample, since the sample underestimates the level of activity in construction, and secondly, the actual assessment at the end of the year will show that many things have been done, because by the nature of the sector very much records are happening in the last quarter. We are otherwise known as campaigners and usually the state of work is submitted before the end of the year and is usually paid up, literally, on December 31st, so that it enters only in the final account for GDP. That's why we think 2% isn't unrealistic. What's most important, it's all happening on the side of the offer. We don't see on the side of the demand, we're with the IMF, the IMF was very worried whether it represents some beginning, an indication of the beginning of the recession or not. We carefully watched the demand for apartments, and the demand for permanent consumption, and the demand for cash loans and general demand, sales, retail, and we saw no element, not even on the side of the export demand. What a lot of people resent us, like so-called. The lower performances, the net domestic VAT, are actually a sign of major exports, because that's where most of the vomit is coming true, even though we know we're late for puking up VAT. We answer some previous questions, and we're late before the world because we can invite colleagues from the IRS to tell us, because we have cases of abuse of VAT vomiting. So, phantom companies show up, who pull back VAT and suddenly you have products, shoes or something on the market, where VAT is returned, and then this company declares bankruptcy, and someone takes over five euros, a brother, a relative or someone, for five euros, they take over a company that has thousands of pairs of shoes on which VAT is completely returned. All of a sudden, you've got goods that aren't even paid taxes that have to be paid. When someone shows up, there are 150 registered and shut down companies behind them, it should be red light to the tax administration. In the future, by reforming the tax administration, we want them to do so without delaying the process. At present, it is still done in the semi-hand regime and all of this results in delays. We're trying to, in fact, under the assumption that as much VAT as possible this year is coming back so we don't have an artificial surplus increase this year and the expected deficit next year. It strengthens this cyclical element of the budget for us. Trust me, we're doing this in a much more complicated way than we can discuss in the congregation. We are prepared to organise a special session, which will not be within the budget, to explain everything we do, to try to see it better. On this basis, we believe that 3.5% next year, which is within the standard medium-term expectations, when all of these elements of so-called are included. positive shifts due to these cycles, we think it's real. The fiscal council even thinks 4% is real for next year. So last year they thought they'd be lower and they were right, I hope they'll be right and 4% next year. What is most important to us, pay attention that we, despite this minor achievement of the plan, have remained in nominal sizes within what we planned. Therefore, when I say that we have achieved everything, we do not have to rebalance any size, because we have remained in these frameworks and in the overall nominal GDP and the participation of all elements of expenditure and the participation of all other sizes that we observe. It's the nature of that process. In the end, actually, the real GDP estimate is calculated the size, as you know. The nominal GDP is the sum of some transactions. How realistic it is, and how not, as you know, it depends on both course and way it is recorded in cash in the budget system, etc. The question is very appropriate, we have dilemmas, we're trying to solve them the best way and we recognize the risks. My estimate is we won't fail there. Why haven't they abolished the 2014 laws? So, in every debate, we have to share a discussion about the frameworks where we have a very strong position in the Ministry of Finance. When we say this is a framework for increase, this is a framework for investment, and we have a practical and first and last word. When it comes to defining how something is done within these frameworks, how laws are passed, how they are deployed, how fine measures are taken, there is a whole government proposing and one option could be what you say, and the other option was something else. It is a question of the majority, as it takes into account both social and political and all other moments. So, when we say -- we said you have space, with the best will, space next year with these 25 billion-dollar pension assumptions to continue the trend of a gradual minimum pension reduction in GDP, and you have a space of extra 35 billion for salaries at the level of gross two, there's an element we know, these are people in the public administration and the public sector. But at a place and elsewhere, we're just guessing exactly how much it's going to be, because we don't control that size directly. So that estimate that we have 60 billion space for that and that we have almost 40 billion space to increase investment, that's what we're giving. As the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Energy has provided concrete charging to make use of this space, so here are those measures relating to wages, pensions and other elements, such as the structure of subsidies, etc., that is already the decision. So we say we have 87 billion for subsidies, and as it's divided, it's already a political decision. Now, I don't think I'm going to reveal anything new to you, that you have the opportunity here in Parliament to change these things. What you're saying, I take it as your suggestion to consider it, so we'll see in the debate about everything else how it's going to end, but it's the nature of the process. We would rebel if you said – add more subsidies or add more pensions, since we think there is no space. Therefore, one of the proposals that many have announced. Mr. Arsic asked Professor Petrovic – are you a pensioner? He replied that he did and that he was getting paid by the President of the Fiscal Council. That's what I'm quoting. As for projects that are going on at the local, at the level of large cities, at the country's overall level, I have worked in many countries and many countries have similar issues for years as Serbia. So you have a question for the capital. Remember, Belgrade does not receive the so-called. non-intentional transfers, because there's enough of your own revenue. All other cities and municipalities receive these transfers. Belgrade has only occasionally, from time to time, or because of city transport that has social significance in Belgrade, as well as because of other situations, requested special treatment at those years. Gondola is one of those projects, which is not a standard project, which is an exception to rules, where it is said that Belgrade, which has a major increase in the realisation of the tourist offer, is materialised through an increased number of tourists, an increased foreign exchange inflow, and most importantly through the permanent increase and maintenance of Belgrade's image as an open city that can provide much. This is one of the suggestions. And again, the question is whether it's the best proposal, but it's not ours to judge. We found space in the budget to propose to the Assembly to bring the budget in which it was explicitly put. Thus, there is nothing to hide, we just say -- the proposal is put on the table and the budget can be submitted without any change of any of the essential parameters, three million euros, to make it a simpler figure, and about seven million euros next year. That's 10m euros for the Gondola project. A aesthetic solution, a technical solution and another, that's none of our business. In the same way, there is a much larger figure in the same budget, which is the figure for two vital projects that have also been greened by projects and functional projects, which are waste water treatment projects and a heat pipeline project, i.e. from Obrenovac to Belgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26971	The word is Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26972	The highway we mentioned, as we call it "the highway of peace", a dilemma that you have shown, a dilemma about what makes the highway and another dilemma about the cost of the highway. First, to break your illusions that the highway is being built because of the citizens of some other countries, the highway is being built precisely because it would be better for our citizens and for the economy and for the possibility of investment to be much better and bigger than it has ever been. It should connect half a million people right now, so Niski, the Toplička district, should allow us to have a bypass at Prokuplje, should allow us to have room for these investors in that part of Serbia, which is very important to us, where there is not enough investment, to have the possibility, when we have a good infrastructure to enable us to have these investments. The highway Nis-Medare-Pristina, what you have in the 2018 budget, is only the first share of Nis-Pločnik. I must tell you that, before we even decided to put this amount in the 2018 budget, a lot of analysis was done. So, previous feasibility studies were done, a general project was done, and only after that, when we saw what previous studies looked like, when we saw that there was cost-effectiveness... You know, from the position of major infrastructure projects you can never estimate in this year whether when you make that highway you'll have a cost-effectiveness in five, seven, ten or more years. This highway has shown itself, according to institutions, even the European Investment Bank, which is very sharp when assessing whether something is cost-effective or not, that and that there is the possibility that this highway can be used to transport not only people, but first of all burdens. For Serbia, it means connecting with the region. For Serbia, it means a safe exit to the port. Remember, Serbia has no exits to port. It is very important for us to go out to Barska Luka, and it is equally important for this corridor that will allow us to go to the Albanian port. Therefore, before we were defined as talking in general about how to finance construction, we did previous feasibility studies, a general project, which was financed, among other things, by a donation from the Western Balkans fund. We are now starting, or ending part of the project technical documentation, which means the idea of a feasibility study for this first 36 km section of Nis-Pločnik, which is why we put it in the budget, because we expect that next year, in the second half of the year, there is an opportunity to start building the highway. I don't think there really is a road, putic, whether it was a highway, a regional road or a local road, which is not important for Serbia. So it's our position that every kind of connection is for us to go out to the investor, to go out to a new job. I can't even understand that anyone has anything against any time. So we're not for goat tracks, we're a country surrounded by other states and we have to build roads. Because everyone's first request, whether it's a domestic or foreign investor, after all and every citizen in this country, is that it has infrastructure, communal, energy, transport infrastructure and that all of its permits come as soon as possible. When there's that, then there's a chance that he can stay here and keep working here. So the amounts in the budget preceded all the studies that showed us that this was worth it to our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26973	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26974	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the respected presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, it is clear that Serbia continues to make strong economic progress and enormous work, effort, effort and commitment are being made and these results are visible. These results are recognizable and this is something that makes Serbia today both respected and respected. It's something that opens doors around the world to Serbia today. The government's reform course, whose clear foundations were set in 2014 and whose results are visible and recognizable from year to year in continuity always above the objectives defined and set, confirms very clearly that there is no alternative. Public finances are safe and stable and we with optimism can look at the period ahead. The hardest part of the job is, I'd say with certainty, done. What is coming is that, in the right way and rationally, first of all, we are benefiting from this in the future, namely to preserve the results we have achieved, to preserve difficult fiscal achievements and to accept all the incentives and initiatives leading to growth and development. The two objectives have been fully realised, and this is also a continuous reduction in public debt in GDP and a permanent reduction in the budget deficit. The minister said in an opening statement, so this year Serbia ends with a record surplus, and the budget deficit envisioned for next year, if it does, is 1%. So Serbia belongs to a group of the world's most developed countries. Serbia, just a few words, is now ranked 43rd on the world's Duing Business List, and just before the start of the reform processes, before the creation of the basis in 2014, Serbia was 91st. Serbia is now in 10 countries for the success of the economic reforms implemented. So there are visible and recognizable economic indicators and parameters. I just want to bring out some, 'cause that's what I need to talk about. Therefore, there was an increase in the average salary in 2017 compared to the period 2014, 2015 and 2016. Unemployment in 2012 was 25.9%, in 2016 15.3%, and in 2017 11.8%. The gross social product in 2016 was 2.8%, in 2017 it was 3.5%. The minimum labour price in 2016 was 121 dinar, 2017 is 130 dinars, and the final goal in 2018 is 143 dinars. Public debt is now 67.1%, will be below 60% in mid- 2019. Direct foreign investment in 2016 1.9 billion euros, in 2017, 2.1 billion euros. So, political and economic stability with preconditions, that is, the incentive provided by Serbia, which provides the government of the Republic of Serbia to potential investors, above all I mean smaller bureaucracy, faster licensing, has contributed to Serbia being what it is today, which is one of the most attractive investment destinations in this part of Europe. Salaries and pensions, pensioners 5%, state administration employees and administration 10%, education, health care, culture, science, social services, tax administration, courts, prosecution, military, police, security services, institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. So just some of the positive indicators and parameters. When it comes to the budget, we believe that the 2018 budget is well balanced and I would completely agree with what Mrs. Mihajlović said a little while, and that is that it is also financially responsible and financially serious and what is very important to us, it has a development component, or it has a developmental orientation. This development component and the development orientation of the budget is based on the concept of increasing investment, i.e. creating a better economic environment, and such an efficient economic policy should also enable better economic growth and economic activity and new jobs, employment and better living standards. So that's what we're talking about. Compared to the current year, when it comes to realisation, for the first time 30% of investment funds have been increased and we fully welcome and support the position on investment in infrastructure, in infrastructure projects. There is no economic without infrastructure development and investment in infrastructure is not a cost, investment in infrastructure is actually an investment in the future. Thanks to above all, I would say, determined and courageous economic measures, but not popular economic measures, we today have a healthy system based on sound foundations, a healthy system that is not based on politics, not based on what can be defined in the right sense as a list of good wishes, what would lead to financial bankruptcy and financial collapse, a healthy system based on life and a healthy system based on economy. Based on good indicators, conditions were created to increase wages and pensions. This increase is based on real foundations. So when we hear criticism today that the increases are too small, I just want to say one sentence – so we have an increase and we have a plus in the state register, it would be irresponsible to have far greater increases and we have a minus in the state register. So the government acts rationally and domestically, according to what is earned. Today it is quite clear that we were right when we talked about the measures that were courageously started in 2014 and when we had a simplified way of observing these measures, how something is reportedly taken from the pensioners. So, we said very clearly then, and this today confirms that these are measures to save Serbia's economy and measures concerning Serbia's future and measures concerning the future of each Serbian citizen. The effects of fiscal policy are visible by reducing interest. Certainly the following borrowings will be under far more favourable conditions, in fact, Serbia's credit rating has been corrected. The priority remains, and this during today's debate was to improve the tax system. This improvement in the tax system needs to be stimulating to act on the economic environment, it needs to act stimulatingly on better and more efficient tax collection, but also on reducing the grey economy. So we feel that we should maintain fiscal discipline and fiscal responsibility and continue to fight the grey economy decisively and continuously. Also, focus must be on the continued reform of public enterprises, Mr Ruzic is not presently there, but the goal should certainly be more efficient in the overall public sector. A lot has been done when it comes to state-owned enterprises. The "Lelezara", Galenika" is privatised, the situation in public enterprises is being improved, especially when it comes to "The Railways", loss-based costs are being reduced, there are still a lot of work to be done, but a lot has been done. What is it that we expect specifically when it comes to public enterprises? Three things. First, to be far more efficient, to use resources more efficiently, to be more rational, to cause less budget costs and to invest to have the best services they provide to citizens. When it comes to the public sector, the SPS parliamentary group fully supports the concept of public reform and strengthening the private sector. We know how difficult this is, but we fully support the concept of reform and strengthening the private sector. We support the measures taken when it comes to the public sector, but we also think that it is very important and that we should do an analysis of where there are surpluses and where there are shortages of public sector employees, so that we have a more efficient public sector as a whole. Many times during the debate, we heard about party employment in the public sector, about the accumulated number of employees. The data says something else entirely. So, during the process of rationalisation so far, savings areas have been found, but so the quality of public administration work and the functionality of the system has not been compromised. Serbia is one of the countries with the least public administration employees in Europe. If the number of public administration employees compares with 100 residents and after two rounds of comprehensive rationalisation of the number of employees in Serbia, today we have 6.4 employees in the public administration of 100 residents, while the EU average is 8.5. We believe that the progress on the lists to assess the quality of the business environment and the business environment certainly will affect and lead to the growth of the private sector. The private sector is, in our opinion, the future. The private sector is of great importance and importance to the state, but also to the economy. For business because it opens up new jobs, for the state, because the state lives on taxes and taxes it collects from the profits of businesses and the private sector, and I want to finish with that, the private sector must and should become a pillar of growth in the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26975	Thank you very much. The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26976	Dear Presidents, honourable members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group will support a set of laws ahead of us. What I'm going to draw attention to is the budget and what we're looking forward to from the PUPS is that we finally have a developmental one. The most difficult decision that we as a parliamentary group had was a decision that we had to make three years ago, and that was to support then Prime Minister Vukic and the austerity measures that were necessary, the reduction of wages and pensions, where at that time over 600,000 pensioners really had a significant reduction, but we deeply believed that our denials would be the result they had, that they would finally come up with the financial consolidation and that here, now we have the budget as it is. Maybe our expectations about pensions were a little more optimistic. Our general position is that pensions should follow salaries, but as we trusted the government three years ago and Minister Vujovic, there is no reason not to trust us now for all these decisions being made. My colleague will talk about it a little later, and I will look back on something that I think is very important for Serbia, which is that investment budget and what it is that we invest in. I think something to draw particular attention to is the villages of Serbia. I'll remind you that, and I might be able to bomb you a little bit, but over three million residents live outside the cities. Rural areas, mountain-mounted areas are completely unrelated to cities. We have over 500 villages that don't have any travel communication. On the other hand, from 4,700 villages, 709 more specifically, over 1,200 are abandoned villages. Over 500 villages have about 50 inhabitants of everything. At least the southern part, these five regions that are the most underdeveloped, over a million and 400 people living down there, 75% of the population, means about a million and some people living exclusively from agriculture and their property. This isn't just about villages being abandoned right now. This is about a mission for everyone. Here is the task also for Mrs Djukic, here is the task, of course, the whole story and I am talking about the project launched by Minister Krkobic, but here is of course the biggest task for the Minister of Agriculture. What's interesting is that in this year 500 cooperatives for 500 villages were launched, and I only mention this because it was founded in the previous year of 2016, I think 31 cooperatives. In this year, as of April, when the project started, which of course supports the Serbian government, but which is significant, the Serbian Academy of Sciences, the Committee on the Village, was founded 182 cooperatives and not only founded because the cabinet of Minister Krkobibic had 200m funds to encourage the development of cooperative society, but because it simply woke up to the awareness that only by pooling small estates would be able to develop this agriculture, which is necessary for us. It is necessary to connect them in order to have the placement of their products. Why am I saying this as a representative of the United Pensioners of Serbia party? Because there are over 191,000 agricultural pensioners. They have receipts around, that lowest pension is because they naturally pay the lowest basics of the contribution, at 10,735, of which they really can't live. They must team up to be able to place their products, to avoid all those intermediaries that are between them. This year it was founded in 182, only 22 received these incentive funds. I see the government recognized it, I see in this budget that four times more funds are planned for next year. From what I understand, there will be about 60 cooperatives that will receive funds. What's important is that there will also be complex cooperatives that will actually be able to lead to this final, fine product that will be able to be placed, but cooperatives are only an incentive, only a driver of rural development. We have a problem for Mrs. Djukic, 260,000 single men, 30 to 40 in that range and over 100,000 women living in rural areas. I think it is necessary to develop villages and not only because of the economic situation, but also because of the security situation. According to Albanians from Kosovo, they will reach Nis, so of course they will reach Nis if they have no one to keep them on the way. You have 14 villages in Vojvodina, if I'm not mistaken, which are also abandoned. This is a topic of thought, for 2018, for Minister Vujovic, who, I hope, will now, as others do not like to interrupt him, so I like to be listened to when I speak, so I will wait. All right, I can keep going. So this is the subject of thinking for Minister Vujovic for 2018, to simply find a way to develop a Serbian village, 200,000 pensioners, millions and 400, only in southern Serbia, over three million outside the cities. I think it's a big task. In southern Serbia, 75% live, I repeat, 75% live off of it, from production. On the other hand, if you have small possessions, where you have in the south, the size of the property is 2.7, it seems to me, Serbia about 4.5, Vojvodina around 11. You have different values, so this is down in that same gauge, where you have the value of the property, say, in the south for 3,400 euros, and in Vojvodina it's 12,000. So this is just a small asset. The 800 million scheduled for next year is, as you said, a drop in the sea and on this side. Professor Chevarlic said 50 million should be set aside. Minister Krkobic said 100 million, I will not bid, but I think we simply have homework for next year to see what it is to develop a Serb village that you have reason to stay in it, that all those who live or who are left behind, and we will have a reform of public enterprises that we do not like. A lot of them will lose their jobs because it's inevitable, but maybe if we give them a chance in the country, if they have good conditions, if you provide, and you know what it looks like in the West. You work in a work suit and boots today, and in the afternoon you sit in the car and go to a nearby place in the theater. Your kids go to school, go to ballet, go to music school. So we just have to give the conditions that people have reason to stay and live in the country. What's more, 73 percent of the village doesn't have its own library, it doesn't have a home of culture. I'm not going to tell you that as director, I'm just disappointed when I saw 2,000 villages have no mail. I think that we should all get involved and find a way to bring back the Serb village, how, obviously, cooperativeism as a concept has awakened, although there are bad experiences from previous cooperative laws, of course in Serbia property is always a problem in private lives and, of course, in society and in the state. But I think this time with the new law we really have every prerequisite for the Serb village to develop. I won't be long, but as director of a public enterprise, I must say that I really expect public enterprises to be a serious topic of the Serbian government in 2018. I have already discussed this topic with Prime Minister Mrs Brnabic, but we must finally separate companies that are doing well, which are doing market business, which are not taking anything from the budget and which are giving the budget. Simply, people who work in these companies deserve to have different treatment from companies that, unfortunately, empty budgets. So, I'll just repeat once again that we from the PUPS parliamentary group will support the laws, and my colleagues will speak in detail a little bit later.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26977	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26978	Thank you. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a budget law that is the most important law that the Assembly adopts every year. The law determines how the money of citizens is spent, meaning not the money of the state, ministers and ministries, but the money of citizens and sets out some basic priorities, creating a financial framework for all activities in one society. So for both health care and education and social protection and for culture and justice, for infrastructure development, practically for everyone, including security and police and military, etc. In accordance with its importance, this law should be discussed in detail. The report that the government should submit to the National Assembly should contain all the details of everything, the way government money is planned, or taxpayers' money, and the debate should take a long time, not to do this quickly. The task set before each ruling majority, whether it is this or the previous or previous government before and before 2012, is how to improve the quality of life of all citizens, because practically the government gets a mandate from the citizens, or the majority of parliament, and then it chooses the government, to improve the lives of citizens, to improve all of these spheres of society that I mentioned, because they all affect the quality of life of each of us. Both to the quality of health and education and security and justice and social protection and culture, and of course the Government does this job of improving the quality of life effectively and at a reduced cost. It's a task set in front of everything. And then, this precondition for improving the quality of life is economic growth. Without economic growth and without a strong economy, there is neither quality health nor quality education, there is no good security. Only economically strong countries can protect their interests and can improve the lives of their citizens. The key measures that are then used to assess whether the government is doing its job well are, for example, the growth of gross social product. With it is bound and profit growth, it does not have to be directly bound, but every longer period clearly sees the connection between them. Then the deficit is one measure of the quality of government, i.e. the measure of efficiency. Not the only one, but one of the measures in which budget funds are spent. Then, the quality of the services provided by citizens, for example, The quality of services in health care, in education, citizens can measure it daily, and therefore conclude whether there is a quality of services provided to them for the money they spend on it. Gross social product growth is also affected by tax burden and bureaucratic burden, availability and quality of credit, interest rates height, efficiency and quality of the judiciary, overall business environment. These are all the jobs the government needs to do. So how would we evaluate government work and evaluate this budget in the light of all these indicators? First, on the one hand, the government managed to virtually eliminate the deficit. It's one of these indicators and it's an important thing when you have a huge deficit, and we've had it for years now, it's destroying the entire stability of the system and it can lead to long-term negative consequences and this job, obviously, is done and can be seen in the budget. So this piece of praise for the government, then the question, on the other hand, is, how is that deficit reduced? A big difference in how you reduce it, and this is directly reflected in the rate of economic growth. When we look at how the deficit has been reduced, the state has practically done it from the pockets of citizens and businesses, not by introducing order in the state and reducing costs and the administration itself and the entire apparatus that provides all these services that I have mentioned. So, not by saving on the side of the country, but from the pockets of citizens and businesses. How do we show that? Well, let's just say the state was first in charge of raising all taxes. The citizens have probably forgotten, but the rates of all taxes have increased throughout this period. For example, the VAT rate was first increased from 18% to 20%. This is an increase of 10%, so the lower VAT rate has been increased from 8% to 10%, so the property tax, the corporate tax, the flat-rate base for all the entrepreneurs in Serbia are increased. In addition to these comprehensive increases in all taxes, there has been a decrease of 22%, all of us against the constitutional, pension cuts that for all pensions of over 25,000 dinars per month, these amounts have been reduced by 22%, all amounts of more than 40,000 dinars have been reduced by 25%, and then a special imposition on salaries of teachers, doctors, police, the military of 10% has been imposed. These were all savings, as the government called them, which contributed to reducing the deficit, so this withdrawal of pensions contributed to about 20 billion dinars, these salaries with some, too, 20 to 25 billion dinars, as the year was shown in the budget. Let's just say, just an increase in VAT that is at 10% to 12% somewhere, of which the budget accounts for more than 50 billion dinars per year from citizens. And since the profit tax hike, almost 30 billion dinars. When you add this up, then you see what a deficit would have been if it hadn't reached into the pockets of citizens and businesses. Sometimes it is necessary, however, before reaching into the pockets of citizens and businesses, the state should first consider where it can introduce order and where it can save, so as not to drag its hand deeper into the pockets of citizens and businesses. The result of such a reduction in deficits, in this way, has had an extremely negative effect on Serbia's economic growth, but also on the quality of services and living standards of citizens. When people look around, you have no area in society where order is introduced. Not in health care, not in justice, not in school. So everywhere you look, we have a continuation of the poor condition that we've had and a significant deterioration in some areas. For example, in health care because of this drastic reduction in income, we have a large number, not only of doctors, I am also talking about medical staff, qualified and quality personnel fleeing Serbia. Germany is their destination. It's mass, all over Serbia, citizens know this very well. When we look at economic growth, these are IMF data, they tell us: GDP increased cumulatively by more than 12% between 2014 and 2016 in Romania, over 10% in Macedonia, in Hungary over 9%, Albania over 8%, Montenegro 7.7%, BiH 6.6%, Croatia 4.1% and Serbia 1.66%. So you see how huge the difference is. We are only talking about countries in the region in economic growth that had Serbia compared to other countries. What's interesting, too, is that part of Serbia is Kosovo, which especially counts for GDP growth, which grew at a rate of 9%. It shows us that the way the deficit has been reduced and that it has reached into the pockets of citizens and businesses, in fact, the cost on the other hand is extremely small and cost-effective growth. These are some things that the finance minister can hardly influence, because he is faced with this macroeconomic framework, he looks at how to reduce the deficit, of course, depends on ministers and ministries, and at the end of the top of the political parties, which determine politics in all these ministries, which should then lead to economic growth, so that faced with this task, of course his focus is to reduce the deficit and he did it successfully. However, on the other hand, for the quality of services and for the results of economic growth, we clearly see that this task is not not not only not achieved, but Serbia has very many helmets for other countries in the region, not by speaking wider than that. In 2017, in the first quarter we have a growth of 1.1%, in the second of 1.3%, in the third flash estimate, i.e. a rapid assessment of the Statistical Office says 2%. So we have an extremely low rate of economic growth. The question is why this is like this, it comes from two reasons. One is basically not the introduction of order in the state, i.e. not leading, or reducing costs, and if there are in the public sector especially in public enterprises, where party personnel are unable, which are mainly with purchased diplomats, from imaginary colleges in various guiding places and as a result are what they have in these public enterprises, and these are huge losses that they make. It starts with Serbia's, which annually loses hundreds of millions of euros. For example, Jelizara Smederevo in the period 2014, 2015 and 2016, losses are over 270m euros. After the Chinese took over, the Chinese didn't take over Jellyzara as a company, they bought the hardware of the Irons for sale. Jelizara Smederevo as a special company still exists. And the state of Serbia will have to settle the debts that remain there. "Er Serbia" annually loses between 50m and 75m euros, etc. So, the result of bad governance with public enterprises costs us a lot, a lot. On the other hand, these increased taxes and the general state of affairs in the country directly affect the economy, reducing economic activity, as there is a consequence of these rates of economic growth. A society believed to be subsidising to foreign investors who make Serbia a country of cheap labour, where subsidies from Dinkic are given, that is his invention, which the government has continued to date from about 10,000 euros per job, somewhere less, somewhere even more, where we are turning into a country of cable rides, there's nothing wrong with hanging cables, but if you turn the whole country into such a 200-euro workload, it's a deeply wrong economic policy. As a consequence, we have these results that we're talking about today. So, when you burden the economy with big taxes, with big contributions, especially the workload, with all the other tax rates. When you have one big bureaucratic burden with one economic policy that is completely misdirected then you get these results. Citizens see it any minute now. He's talking about how we're falling for unemployment, it just doesn't stand. People flee from Serbia especially young people, because if there was a rise in employment it would be seen directly on GDP, it is unfortunately not there. So it's about some other things, not some growing employment. This all together on the other hand has one contrast that we will set, which actually puts us ahead of the choice that Serbia should continue to take. Strategic how to define it. The software industry in Serbia, which is self-inflicted without any support from the state, is, in fact, due to reach exports this year, of around 700m euros. It's your annual growth, year by year of about 30%. In 2016, this growth amounted to around 590m euros. This tells you how to take people into action, where they have open clients, such as in the software industry, where their clients are mostly in the west and where practically these clients get jobs at the beginning were, mainly, some service jobs or processing software development data, etc. It has now slowly shifted to the development of products, which our companies place on the world market, since there is no burazer economy there and there is no intrinsic party, no taking rackets, etc., but have an open market where with their quality they achieve both their prices and their incomes. We have 30 percent growth rates like this. This should have told us which way to look, when we look at Serbia's economic development. Practically, when we look at the effects this poor economic model has on Serbia and only the cost question that we get from these public enterprises and the effects on the budget, let's say in this 2018 budget, we have 30 billion dinars to activate the guarantees that the state has given to public enterprises, which is the principal, which is interest, where their incompetent managements are unable to repay these loans, they took them, they behave lightly because they know there's someone who's going to pay at the end of the bill, it won't be them. Then who's in such a comfortable manner as to pay all the citizens, this 30 billion dinars? When we look back from 2014 to 2017, we have 122 billion dinars in the budget in the name of the activation of guarantees. All together from 2014 to today, that's 152 billion per budget. Then, the subsidies from 2014 to 2017 were spent on budgets, I only talk about subsidies to the economy of 164 billion dinars, in this year 42 billion are planned. When we look at everything together, the subsidies from 2014 to 2017 went to 344 billion dinars, this year 87 billion dinars. When we take out agriculture, culture, that's actually RTS, we get to the number that I've read before, 164 billion and 42 billion. Then we have fines and a penalty for court decisions 18 billion this year, 11 billion last year. This all points to this wrong economic and any other policy that the government is leading. The finance minister in this environment is trying to reduce the damage, and, of course, through the measures he's taken, he's managed to reduce the deficit, but nothing further than that. What's the economy, actually, necessary? You need a reduction of the load. One good measure provided for in this package of laws is to increase the untaxable amount from 11,700, approximately, dinars, to some 15,000 dinars. It will raise a net salary of 330 dinars per month to each employee in Serbia, at an annual level of 4000 dinars, i.e. the annual effect of cutting that income is about 7 billion dinars. Much of it will go from the budget of local self-government, as they receive most of these funds. That's a good measure since it's going towards a reduction in the workload. The government proposed an 8% increase in salaries to teachers, doctors, military, police and other employees. With an inflation of 3% last year, this is a real growth of about 5%. There was a lot of thought that this was the wrong move, that it was the right move to abolish the law that took 10% of these salaries from both teachers and health workers and all other public sector employees, and that in this way there was a return, practically kidnapped, instead of fictitiously talking about some increase in earnings, it was just a return of a part of what is being taken. Otherwise, that 8% would be reduced by 10%, so that's nominal 7.2%. We suggest that what was taken back to 10%. Then, the government proposes a nominal pension growth of 5% linear. We also think it's some cost, according to the finance minister, of 25 billion dinars. We don't think it should do that either, but just as the Fiscal Council said - it is necessary to abolish this anti-constitutional law on pension cuts. We already see that pensioners are announcing a lot of lawsuits. I think eventually that money will have to be returned, whatever. If the DJ succeeds in power, that money will be returned without any charges to all pensioners. So basically that money needs to be paid back first, it's a cost of 20 billion dinars. Then, after that, pensions linearly align with inflation growth, and that's some extra cost of 15 billion. So, in all of our budget, as we suggested, we predicted 35 billion dinars for pensioners, instead of 25 billion, proposed by the government. Then, we propose a reduction in taxes and contributions additionally to 70 billion dinars by changing the way in which the health system is financed. We think we should move from this Bizmark model to Beverage's model in a few steps and, instead of subsidies and instead of all these other things the government does, it actually needs to cut taxes and contributions. It's the best subsidy for the entire economy. We think a single injection in the economy would directly bring about about 50 billion dinars for the private sector, for entrepreneurs, to lead to an additional growth of GDP between 1% and 2% and a significant reduction in the grey economy, as the rates would be significantly less and practically set a whole new economic framework. We also predicted that with 20 billion dinars, some 10 billion dinars, which is some basic calculation, would be returned to all these reserves that have not been paid to the war dinars, which is to increase health investment by 10 billion dinars and to establish "venture" capital of industry with some amount of four billion dinars. We think that this is a completely different economic policy that would lead us to the result we expect, which is to invest in innovation, to achieve the economic growth we need, to get the state off the back of the economy, and the business citizens will already know how best to spend their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26979	Thank you. Anyone else want a word or should we go to the list? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26980	The President-in-Office, respected gentlemen and ladies ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, here, today all day long we are talking about the Budget Law, the most important law, and I think it's important to say in the beginning that we MPs have been faced with an unworthy challenge where we will comment on the way this session is scheduled, with short deadlines, with a large number of laws to discuss, and it certainly needs to be mentioned, because it shows, in fact, the willingness of the ruling majority to debate and we have dialogue here, where it is most normal, on such important issues, but I don't think that this is the essence. The essence is something that, above all, represents this budget and how it will affect the citizens of our Republic of Serbia. This is the seventh budget that adopts or suggests this majority that now forms a government and supports the government that is here in these benches. So, from 2012 to today, that's the seventh budget. Yes, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and this budget for 2018, the seventh budget. So you can check it out, but that's exactly how it is. We have warned all finance ministers and government presidents so many times when they appeared here, which is a violation of the law because you are required under the law that the moment the Republic of Serbia and its public debt exceed 45% of its participation in GDP, this Assembly, present to the people in Serbia a clear plan for resolving and the level of debt and the way in which it will reach the prescribed level of 45%. Then we can talk about the budget, because I think it is primarily a responsibility to the citizens of Serbia for the simple reason, what I was talking about at the beginning, and this is a question of responsibility for the future standard of citizens, for our children and for the way in which we have committed ourselves to their future. We have here now, among these 31 laws proposed, and a law which, of course, does not have much time to speak, but a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of the public friend of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens invested in banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We forgot the 1990s and the declaration of old foreign currency savings. We forgot how then governments affected the future of generations after the 1990s and after 2000, and here we are talking again today about these consequences after so many years that have passed. Is this not an influence and important responsibility on the perspective of Serbian citizens, children who were born at the time, and here they are now full-aged and now we are solving these problems which, of course, affect both these generations and this standard? In this way we will influence future standards of generations 25 and 30 unless we speak in a responsible way about how we will repay the debt. I will remind you, in 2012, at the time the new government was elected after the elections, in mid-year, in July, it amounted to around 15 billion euros. In 2014, Mr. Minister, you spoke to the Finance Committee, that debt led Serbia to serious financial problems, up to a month before bankruptcy, as you told us, and it was a public debt crisis, where we reached about 25 billion, with ten billion more. It is good that after 2014, we have a stagnation of this public debt, but again, according to this official data, up to 24 billion and about 500 million euros in public debt. So you told us that because of the exchange rate differences and because of the repayment of some debts before time, that public debt is lower, and let it be lower, of course we are looking forward, but certainly from 2012 until today, that public debt has increased by nine billion. So that's what we leave to future generations as a major challenge for our children's standards. That is why I remind you today of your obligation. We had, in my opinion, absurd performances when we were happy and came to these, according to this plan and the draft budget, you predict that with 65% of the public debt in GDP we will reach 63%. The country's president often speaks of it as going out on a green branch and approaching levels close to the Mastrict and what the EU's standards say. I think it is clear to all of us that we are sitting in the Republic Assembly of Serbia that has prescribed and passed the law that this limit is 45%. Mastrict says it's 60%, but it's clear who we're responsible for here and what laws we should respect. That's why it's important that we talk about it. If we already don't respect that law, then suggest changing that law and say – you need to raise that limit to 60% and then talk about that kind of responsibility. The projection of this budget in one part, and in the past seven proposed budgets, brings growing centralisation. It is clear to all people who live here in different places in Serbia, who have led their municipalities and cities or lead them further, that we have centralised revenue from budget to budget and that we have reduced transfers to local self-governments, cities and municipalities and it is clear from the previous Fiscal Council report that it is warning about the closeness of bankruptcy both in Kragujevac and in some other cities, and now for consolidation in Nis. A very critical condition. He spoke about the state of finance in Belgrade, Novi Sad, but so can talk about other cities and municipalities. It is obvious that further centralisation and some solutions that will bring this budget, according to the Fiscal Council, reduce revenues by about five billion in total for local self-government in 2018, and will result in an additional five billion in expenditure. I think it's important to talk about it in one responsible way, because this real life and those projects that you've talked about and that we often talk about here, which is the need for capital investment not only at the state level, but also at the local level as regards quality water supply, waste water treatment, health problems, sanitary dumps and many other heating projects where this real and concrete life is taking place at the local level. I will thank you for confessing and removing one seems to me to be a public dilemma, and we have often talked here in this assembly hall about the debt of Belgrade and the inherited debt that has often been discussed. I asked you a question -- what criteria for calculating Belgrade's debt, do you accept the Fiscal Council or the criteria of Sinisa Mali and Goran Vesic? You gave a clear answer, that there is only one criterion, an international criterion that you recognize. To question whether it was the criteria of the Fiscal Council, you clearly said yes. And thank you for that, because I think we shortened that discussion in which it is said -- the city of Belgrade inherited 1.2 billion debt by the arrival of the new government, the authorities of the SNS and their coalition partners, and the Fiscal Council says that the debt was 400 million at that time. So you said clearly and loudly that the debt amounted to 400 million on these criteria, and now as a key result of that local city government, Belgrade claims that the debt was halved, meaning by a billion and 200 divided into two, it is now down to 600 million. Whether it's a debt reduction or a difference of 400 to 600 million, we could hear that. I think it's important to talk about this budget, not just these figures that seem extremely technological and perhaps uninteresting for people in Serbia, I think it's important to pass it on to what is real life in Serbia. Of course, the challenge of the budget and each of these tables and amounts, in fact, is the way that life can be improved in Serbia, the way it can affect the lives and social status of people in Serbia, and that is what people in Serbia are most interested in. Have we increased the standard of citizens with this budget and have we passed laws in this period from 2012 to today that have increased the standards of people in Serbia? No, because we did, because you voted, and we were against it, the decision to temporarily cut wages and pensions. So, salaries and pensions in Serbia have been cut. It has been reduced, therefore, I am convinced, and what is also part of increasing the standard of living, which is an increase in service standards, not only wages and pensions and finances, but also an increase in services and in health care, an increase in services and in education, an increase in services and in public administration, and where you have demoted people, it is difficult to expect that such service will be better quality. This is what directly reflects on the standard of citizens, and I am sure that this standard has fallen, not only because of the decline in income, but also because of what we have, entering the shops daily, we see that we have daily gatherings and it is not difficult for any of us to notice. When it comes to spending a future standard, I think it is equally devastating or perhaps even more difficult to decide on a ban on employment in Serbia. I think that in this way we have endangered the future of a serious part of Serbia's future, ending medical colleges, preparing to serve their country and through public services, why not, raising the public sector, because this country needs a public sector, regardless of the kind of campaign in which anyone who works in the public sector is someone who is not effective enough or not needed this state. But if you stop young doctors, the best students from medical school in the last five years, you haven't just sent them to Germany, Norway or to think about where they're going, trying to find their future and realize their skills and place our skills, we've thus made a hole in an institution so important for the health of the population and survival of this population, because there is no transfer of knowledge from professors, previous professors, people from experience, surgeons, specialists and those who can transfer their skills, and to form top experts in this area takes at least ten years. So that's why I want to talk about life and the way decisions like this reflect people's lives in Serbia. I think some of the decisions and some of the positions in this budget show important things, and I will tell you why it is important to respect the law and in that part of the report before the budget is adopted in the implementation of the budget for the previous year. I know what you're about to say and I should say that the previous governments have not submitted those reports, and we've already talked about it and that the last report was submitted in 2003, and every honor to that government that was then prepared to report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the budget, and that all these years we don't have that report. We cannot fully competently talk about the budget and budget projection for 2018 unless we have that report. Here, you've given examples of how we've come to believe that GDP growth in this year is projected, in fact it's going to go to 1.8%. You say – it is possible that it will be 2%, and it is in that analysis of the execution of capital investments and the way they can be executed in the last quarter. What I saw from the execution, in the first three quarters of capital investments were made with some 77 billion. They say it's about 53% of the execution compared to the plan. So 50% of planned capital investments are realised to boost the development of Serbia's economy. It's obviously a lack of realization to encourage in an efficient way. We have that in the report, where the Office for Budget Analysis did the analysis. So, if we see what this means, how projects are implemented ineffectively, and you're talking about your problems that we don't have enough efficiency in institutions or integration in institutions to realize projects, obviously it's causing a stalemate and affecting GDP growth. Then we wonder in these 10 years, in these seven years, nine billion more public debt, for the average GDP growth of 1.66%, and we've seen how we stand on that scale compared to other countries. What are the effects and effects of investment placements, budget projections and realisation and what is the responsibility of all governments responsible for thus raising the quality of life in the Republic of Serbia. What else is a possible problem in this part, while we're talking about capital investments? We can also see this in a report by the Fiscal Council and a well-intentioned warning, obviously, which is that there is an even more budgetary tendency that more and more investment implements bilateral agreements, therefore, bypasses around Belgrade, the Preljina-Požega highway, the Novi Sad-Subotica railway, waste water processing and heat pipeline in Belgrade. Such agreements, which bypass the standards of tender procedures, can have hidden costs and have lower effects on economic growth, foreign companies, import materials and others are more engaged. This is from the Fiscal Council report and their recommendations. I think it's important to do an analysis when we're talking about this. It is necessary to look at the table which you seem to be telling me something, which is a comparison of the VAT projection, therefore, from the country, and the VAT projection from imports. This year's projection is 75 billion VAT from the country and 425 billion VAT from imports. So this structure is saying something about the state of our economy and that's clear. It's clear they're different inflows. I know you can answer me and I need you to tell us, but it's important to compare it to that trend, because it's a sixfold lower inflow or a projection of the country's VAT inflow compared to the VAT from imports, but it's important to compare it with the previous year's data. Do you know what they were and what structure they were then? It was 3:1 or 3.5-1. So if it compares to the previous five years, that structure was a relationship with 1:2 or something like that. If we look at it, these are domestic economies, and it's obvious from that data that we have a serious problem in that structure. I think that this is well related to key sources for GDP decline, which is inefficient governance of the EPS, insufficient production, especially at the beginning of the year, insufficient implementation in agriculture and I think that these are key sources, first of all, and these delays in realisation and under-quality work in construction. So, since time is running out, I think it's important to say and conclude what is the task of all of us and in what way we can, along with our proposals, improve some of the general situation in our society, above all those who are the most vulnerable. Forty-seven thousand is the average salary in Serbia. The consumer basket, the new consumer basket is 70,000 is the minimum consumer basket, the poverty line for the four-member family is 31,500. So about 8% of Serbia's population lives below the poverty line. Hundreds of thousands of children live below the poverty line. It lacks 4,500 to a minimum consumer basket. So, at the cost of the consumer basket, there is still about 8%, so around 200,000 children are in great challenge. We gave you some of the suggestions. They won't solve all the problems, but some of the amendments as they did last year are going in that direction. Here, there's the minister of education, so we suggested that from some positions, subsidies, we transfer a billion dinars to children's and school standards, to introduce free lunches to our children in schools in Serbia, to take care of those children who are below the poverty line and those children who would have at least one meal provided, at least one healthy meal in schools. I think there is also a set of other amendments that we have given as a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party. This should be discussed and the real lives of people in Serbia should be taken into account, not just macroeconomic indicators based on which the 2018 budget is projected. A year.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26981	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. Here you are, Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26982	Thank you very much. I would like to answer, or offer some thoughts on the topics that the previous two speakers have set in motion. In many of the questions you ask, I not only agree, but I'm as concerned as you are. Now that I don't lose a lot of words about how much we agree on many things, there's absolutely no need to deepen things here. We agree on what the diagnosis was, and we agree that these things were unsustainable. That's where I'd have to deepen things. So our problem wasn't just where we were, it was where we were going. It's not a 45% debt problem, it's a 20-and-a-half-debt rate, where we were after the Paris-London club's reprogramme, the speed we went down from there to 45%, and we went through it. It was not a problem, but a problem was the promise of permanent expenditure in the sphere which is otherwise very noble, which is to increase social giving, subsidies, public sector wages and pensions, without being able to maintain it. So, the intentions were very good, but as you know from that phrase -- good intentions of water can lead right to hell, the financial and fiscal hell that came out through that we came to 8.8% of the deficit that July 2014 when I became the performer of duty. From that moment on, I can only tell you what we were doing to stop that ship from going off that path and turn it around. I can comment on what happened in 2012 to 2014 but this would require a deeper analysis since political changes occurred in 2012 and half a year has passed from the time of the election to the moment of government formation. I can only tell you from the point of view of the fiscal side that when the government took responsibility, it had a hole in fiscal liquidity so large, it had to be immediately in debt about two billion to keep only water below the level of mouth, figuratively speaking. So, what happened in 2012 was one inert that couldn't turn at all. In 2013, almost entirely it was spent on turning the political side of the process. There are colleagues here who can explain it much more and better. It was important, firstly, to turn the political ship off the hill of the collapse of talks with Europe and put it back. On January 20, 2014, we signed a key document and, not a day later, the discussion began on how to return the economic process to those flows. This is an interpretation of an economist. There are people here who know it more precisely legally, institutionally, but at that moment a conversation began about where our fiscal, economic ship is sailing. Then, as I recall, the main message of the campaign that ended in the elections, on 16 March 2014, was – we need to put the economy back on track. I don't need to know more details, but it's crucial, and that's when we first got the voter's mandate that now that we've secured knowledge and return to the path of European integration, let's make sure that the ship that's in a dangerous state is back in balance. Please, at that time, with another delay, we were elected to this Assembly on 27 April 2014, and 15 days later we had an emergency situation in Serbia, where everything was separated, that it couldn't have come from point A to point B, where we had to do something that we now provide with this loan for elementary disasters, we found ourselves in a situation to depend on help, the goodwill of others to survive. Everyone was only hired to survive. In July of the month, we first raised our heads and started to deal with reforms. So it's very important to me, we can say that it happened in terms of money. I can tell you that, simply, if you had a deficit of over 250 billion in 2014, then don't be surprised what two billion grew in debt next year, because it's minimum to cover just a hole in the budget. When you underline that, then you'll get a completely different picture that I was talking about at the level of debt. Now let me tell you another thing. I agree with you. I'm as worried as you are, but I have to professionally and as a man to tell you that your offered solutions are neither coherent nor feasible, are not mutually consistent. What we're offering you is a difficult road, but it's the right way out. There's no fakes, no flings, no thefts, no borrowings. There's been a road here that we've been in for three years and we're showing it's the right way. This is what we've accomplished and the Fund is the only thing that helps us. Without us, this wouldn't have happened. I agree with you that all these problems remain. So I totally agree that subsidies are our problem, but subsidies, as I was saying in the opening statement, have three categories. Some of them are real investments hidden under subsidies. Participation in the Russian loan is an investment only called a subsidy due to some of our legal and other restrictions. So we transfer the money to the railroad, the railroad pays in credit, so that's what we paid the de facto. The railway should return that infrastructure to the state, as the railway works on behalf of and on behalf of the state, that part called the infrastructure. So someone made earlier arrangements that were complicated and that's why we... If there's nine billion in last year's budget, that's investment. It's no subsidy, so we understand each other. Also, assuming that people are doing their job well, what we are giving to stimulate regional development and new jobs are also investments. Is that any better? I'm sure he can. People here all know that any thing can be better, but it's not subsidies that support old things. These are subsidies aimed at creating new jobs, at the future. We have in those parts, counterpart Nedimovic does this on a daily basis, how to restructure old classical subsidies, those in agriculture, that they maintain a newer approach, to move from a subsidy whose intention was to provide a minimum amount of wheat and cereals in a country of 25 million inhabitants, to subsidies that will create a basis for developing modern, efficient agriculture, and that the part relating to the social, old households and the rest may be better channeled through the Ministry of Labour, rather than through the Ministry of Agriculture. That problem exists, no one denies it, but it's not good to fool ourselves into supporting modern agriculture. That helps people survive with old technology in old conditions. It's different things. Every thing has its own, and it would be best if we thought about it all soberly. That's where our consent ends. Question – what can be done in one year overnight? We've done a lot in the part where we had a mandate. Just to look at the interest reduction from 138 billion last year to 133, to 117. Only this reduction of interest is what the world recognises to us as a result of the reform. That's not what we saved. This is what the world tells us – since you are better and more responsible, you will pay less of your debts. Any funding of a billion euros is additionally saving 60m euros annually. That's how we refinance half of those 24 billion by another 500, 600 million interest costs. Half of what we have now. So 117 billion dinars, that's a billion euros, a little less. We can cut it in half if we continue to manage it this well. Let me just add one more thing. As terrible as the data you listed sounds, we accept it, and we have to end it to the finish line. As for pensions, it's often mentioned and it's popularly political, but I have to tell you a few sobering facts. If we hadn't inherited the situation as we inherited and the diagnosis didn't say that pensions and salaries in the public sector were unsustainable, we could most likely support the illusion that you support, which is social, reform is possible without change. That's not possible. I'm only offering one argument. It's politically very unpopular. Racio prevailed, and so a program is accepted in which there is a victim to accomplish something. Everyone has some difficult moments in history, and if they survive and they do it well, then they might actually be abdicating. We're in a place like this now. I don't understand your attempt to say that we could have shut down all the companies at the Privatisation Agency overnight and saved some money. We wouldn't achieve anything. How could we stop all the subsidies, all the donations we've had? Not overnight. First we put order where we can. First we stopped those places where the money was poured out without any reason. So we left the subsidies that were capital, and we abolished subsidies that were a direct waste of money. Those were liquidity guarantees. So what you're telling us with the right to have a lot of money in effective guarantees, that's true, but it's the result of the guarantees that were issued four, five years ago, which were given knowing that they would have to be activated. We did so knowingly to maintain social peace, to maintain jobs until these companies were restructured. Let's move on. As far as pensions are concerned, I'm just going to give you some big data. You're looking at this thing and everyone has the right to look at it from their point of view, and I'm looking at it from a macroeconomic point of view. In 2014, the pension fund paid 508 billion, paid 490 billion in 2015 after this reduction. Next year, 494, then 498, and we're planning this year after this 5% increase to bring it back to 527 billion. So it's going to be almost 20 billion more than it was in 2014. It's just a global picture. How much did the non-retired citizens of Serbia give in this? The subsidy was literally 50% of the pension fund. So this subsidy was the largest subsidy in the state of Serbia. Transfers were 251 billion from Serbia's budget to the pension fund, so it fell to 211 in 2015, down to 205 2016, to 178 this year and 185 next year, respectively. So we plan to make the pension fund less dependent on the budget transfer and manage to increase pensions. Some people have had more pensions today and today with this increase than ever, and some have fewer pensions and it's a matter of politics, and it's not a matter of macro-economy. It's even macroeconomic for us to simply calculate the total amount. How this is distributed and redistributed is the issue of the entire government's decision and that is the issue of this Assembly. These laws are not government laws. These are the laws passed by the Assembly. Therefore, the congregation can bring them and change them. We didn't arm these laws because we knew there were many elements of uncertainty and we wanted to see how it was realized so we could move forward. Today, conditions have been created to continue with what you are looking for, to continue with the social that we maintain at a very high level, to continue with the social state, the development budget and all the things we want to see, to create new jobs, but today we have real conditions for that. Three and a half years ago, we had no real conditions. Then our top priority was to prevent bankruptcy. We had 78 days per rate of depletion of fiscal liquidity funds. We had 78 days, it was calculated, "Bumberg" published it, to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26983	The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26984	Let me respond to several of your flat-rate evaluations of the state of construction, especially with strategic bilateral agreements that the Republic of Serbia has with the People's Republic of China, whether with the Russian Federation, with Turkey or with some other countries. Since you said under-quality work in the building, that domestic companies don't work at all, which means that other people's equipment is also being used and nothing from Serbia, that's what you said, now a few important information. First, strategic long-term agreements were made in 2008 and 2009. They were just making presidents of your parties at the time, from Tadic to others, and now my dilemma was when I was thinking about how to answer whether you were angry about having these agreements, that you signed them, or that it didn't suit you that you didn't realize them. So this government and how it realizes them because of these agreements, and I am truly grateful that you made these agreements, because now all the infrastructure projects we are working with countries, whether it's China, mostly China or the Russian Federation, the minimum participation of local companies, domestic Serbian companies is 50%. When we talk about the Russian loan, it's even 80%. Everything that can be used from Serbia is used. The railway that was rehabilitated after 40 years Resnik – Valjevo, 77 km, was run by domestic companies on the track. The main contractor is a Russian company. They worked domestic companies, 80% of them domestic companies that worked. Everything is manufactured in Serbia. One part of the tracks was imported because it wasn't here. This also applies to Belgrade – Budapest, where 50% will be domestic companies and everything we can do in our country will be used from our country. That also applies to the bypass we're working on and the one you mentioned. This does not concern, among other things, Corridor 10 where all contractors were selected in a World Bank, European Investment Bank or IBRD loan tender, where jobs were received by other foreign companies that had just engaged domestic companies at the lowest and lowest percentage. To be completely open and honest, it seems that way today. On the other hand, the value of investments in Serbia today only in traffic infrastructure is over 12 billion euros and they are realised and that is the difference compared to some previous period, and I wish it didn't interfere because everything we can hire domestic companies we've been doing these years, and it seems to me that our domestic companies today look completely different from four or five years ago because they are somehow the main business carriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26985	Thank you, Vice President Mihajlović. The supplement is provided by Finance Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26986	Just a brief addition. Since the VAT question has been asked, I forgot to say the exact figures. So the question is legitimate why are the figures that we have in the budget so-called. The net domestic VAT returns are what they are? You'll understand if I read you a gross vomit and a net. So, in 2014, gross domestic VAT was 252 billion, then 260 next, then 284, then 277 for the first 11 months of this year. Vomiting was moving 141, 163, 171, 205. The net VAT that appears in our tables since such a methodology is 111.97, 113.72 so far, and that's the number you see in the budget. What does she depend on? Gross domestic VAT depends on domestic market collection, and the net depends on gross minus vomiting, which depends primarily on exports. And when your exports are good and you get better back, then it looks worse to you that net domestic VAT, which is the difference between those two things. So the worse he's in those numbers that you've seen, the more legitimate the question is. I couldn't agree more. But the explanation is very simple. I actually asked my colleagues to put it on, to make it clear to everyone, and they say – the methodology requires that a net domestic VAT be written. There, that's an explanation. In our reports, we get these numbers all the time and it can be confusing. We get gross domestic VAT in our daily budget reports, not net. This net is, then, the difference between these two things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26987	Thank Minister Vujovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26988	I had to report for the serious claims that were made, which is that you said that health employment is forbidden and that we are entering a problem, as you said, that people's lives are at stake. The facts are next. In 2014, 5,993 persons, i.e. health workers, were employed. Of which, 2.130 doctors, 657 of them with a higher school, 2,944 nurses and technicians with a high school and 262 with a lower school. Unlike, if you don't remember, from the period we found, where there was a ban on giving specializations and the inability to go to specializations, because you had to go two years to do some so-called. Internship. All these people are working today and all of them are employees of the competition, extremely transparent, unlike the previous period that we found, where we had more drivers, fitness trainers and all of them, except health workers in health institutions and pharmacies. Not that they weren't hired in the competition, it couldn't have been such a contest. Over 6,000 specializations have been given since 2014. These are facts, because of the citizens of Serbia. But I think it's lucky that the citizens of Serbia believe in themselves and what they see, not someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26989	Thank you, Dr. Lonchar. Right on the line, Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26990	How many minutes do I have for a replica, since there were answers from four ministers?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26991	You have two minutes, unfortunately. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26992	Minister Vujovic says -- never more pensions in Serbia. I think it's hard to accept such an argument. If the reason for the reduction in wages and pensions in 2014 was this big public debt crisis, since we no longer have that crisis, which is why we don't return and be the most just, to simply abolish the Law on temporary wage cuts and pensions, but we selectively pass a law that raises five percent to certain sectors, some 10 percent, and some remain out of that range, have no increase, such as the RFO. RFZO workers will not have an increase, they will have zero percent unless something changes with this draft budget. You were talking about capital investments and you didn't confirm and respond to execution – 53% of the execution. It is clear that in this budget, and we can see by comparing data, we have the worst implementation of this year's budget in the positions of infrastructure, agriculture and delays in VAT returns. So, a debt of over 36 billion dinars for VAT. When we talk about health care, we best ask all people who have needs, each of us who enters a health care facility and who have friends. First, I don't know if we can be immune to a large number of specialists leaving the country, from surgeons, radiologists and many other specialists, who are looking for opportunities in other countries, Kuwait, Qatar, Germany, Norway, and I think we are aware that we are losing that continuity in healthcare. I think that's what the health minister should worry about, as well as the patients in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26993	Thank you, colleague Kiric. Professor Zorana Mihajlović reported the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26994	So it's not just a mix-up about those capital investments. So the execution rate of the current budget of the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure is 78%. We're only at the beginning of December. The biggest payments each year, both past and past, are in December and every year the Ministry of 97-98% has the efficiency of realising capital expenditures. So capital expenditure and that will be seen, I believe, as at the end of December. Another important thing. These capital investments, after all, I think the figures tell us the best about, say, the number of sites, but it tells us what we did. It was never built again in Serbia. Especially when it comes to traffic infrastructure. The number of construction sites is generally 500 sites in 2013, somewhere in August, we came to 21,000 construction sites. And these are data that not only gives statistics, but these are data provided by international organisations. Thus, hundreds of kilometers of highways, reconstructed networks, railways or roads, suggests that as far as capital investments are concerned, it is not by chance because we have defined ourselves for 2018 that we have an increased budget. When we talk about this ministry that I'm running right now, it's somewhere near five billion dinars. And anything that could have been triggered, or anything that wasn't started four years ago, is being done today and you have construction sites that are active, even at this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26995	Thank you, Vice President Mihajlović. The word has a minister of agriculture, Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26996	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members, I'd like to say a few things, first of all for the public. Just before, one claim was related to a lower percentage of the budget implementation in the agriculture sector. The percentage of execution in the Ministry of Agriculture, ending on December 1st, is 76%. What will happen in December is because of the very technology of releasing subsidies and the percentage of the ministry's realisation will be about 95-96%. Where do we have a problem right now? We have a problem with transferred funds towards local self-government in terms of the implementation of those projects concerning water arrangements and the arrangements of agricultural land. We have a problem here, first of all, because of the way we allocate these assets. Just now, Minister Vujovic was talking about it. If we went to a classic system to get the ministry to call off all those investments, then you accused us of centralization. When you transfer those funds, it's kind of a subsidy and then it's not listed as investments. We have one of the basic problems here. I expect we'll solve that thing in this month, but what is this budget going to do next year? There will be a specific sector within the ministry that will be formed and will deal with the development of investments in order to prevent such things and so that we can have a quality control mechanism and thus fully directly increase the share of investments in agriculture within the framework of the country's total investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26997	Thank you, Minister Nedimovic. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26998	Thank you. You shouldn't have broken up the discussion like this. It would have been much better if you had responded directly, since it would have been easier to discuss. Now, two statements you've heard, you can't tell when the minister's talking about who he's referring to. What Minister Vujovic said, of course the problems were great, I was faced with them in 2013 from 2 September, where I tried to put order into these public enterprises. Practically, the reason I resigned in January 2014 is the absence of any political will to actually do so. So I know very well what finance looks like and what it's doing inside these companies. What's the main message I've been trying to send here is that there's nothing going on in that plan. When we talk about wages and pensions, they are reduced so that everything that exists in these public enterprises where order is not introduced. For social enterprises in restructuring the same thing. Practically, we tried to save them through ID cards, and eventually what happened to the ID cards was withdrawn and eventually most of these companies were closed, the cost was huge. So, big mistakes made. When we talk, let's say, about salaries and pensions, if "Gealezara" rules lose 270m euros, if "Er Serbia" would make losses of 150m euros, then I can't talk about how pensions need to be cut, because there is another place where savings is possible. What I'm saying is, once again, it's been saved up there, or on citizens and on the economy, and not where it's supposed to be saved, and as a consequence, it has an extremely low rate of economic growth. This is not your fault, of course, you're from the point of view of finance, macroeconomically speaking, doing what you could do. Practically, the problem is the entire government, which has a very bad path and leads a bad economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u26999	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u27000	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, we have had our chance today to hear that the greatest sin is in fact what the budget has come in time to the Serbian Parliament. Since 2011 for 2012 was adopted December 29th. In 2010, 28 December, a year ago, and for 2009 also 28 December. This was normal then, and now that it is under the Rules of Procedure and when it enters November 30 and will be voted by the Rules of Procedure by 15 December in the current year, it is not good. As it's not good that public debt is over 45% at a time when we have the problems we inherited, which is the rate of unemployment of 26%, 200 thousand people fired from the public sector, 100 thousand people in companies in restructuring. It never existed, but the fabricated legal model, those companies that were privatized, picked up everything that was best from these companies and returned to the state. There were some people who worked, and there were 100,000 of them, and they received some salary of 100 euros a month. They were in front of the EU for 24 controversial privatisations in Serbia. Serbia ranked 91st on the Duing-business list, building permits were issued on average in 200 days. Then there were a million and a half illegally built buildings in Serbia. The fight against corruption was at the lowest possible level, so public procurement was in the tycoon position and the budgets of the Republic of Serbia were created on the basis of the tycoon's opinion, which financed it, and which had a job solely in this way conjecture. What's left is 558 companies in bankruptcy and privatisation, and what we got as those who deliver an account after their political rule is 1.4 billion euros a year on loans they've withdrawn, 20 billion dinars of debt according to court decisions for military pensioners, which are based on the decision of the defence minister then, and 750m euros annually for firms in restructuring as certain debts. Now, with all this in 2012, you get a deficit of 56%, and you still need to get some of the debts you face in 2013, as the finance minister explained to you, how much it amounted to, what a hole it was, and all the pensions and social benefits that you are required as a state, and then you come into a situation where some international experts say in their reports that Serbia is bankrupt because there are only 84m euros left in the commitment budget. So with this, the political establishment that is now giving us lessons about how we are not working enough, how we have too much public debt, how we simply have today the opportunity to have a surplus in the budget, how we have mastered the deficit and stopped negative growth, or how we have turned into a positive growth in economy and economic activity, talk about how simply those who have taken responsibility for leading the state, with these results of predecessors, are not doing their job enough. What you see, according to these results, is the time has come after these years of the most difficult austerity measures, with which Mr. Vukic and the SNS went to their voters and told the truth about the situation, not only the budget cases, but also the state of the country, in 2014, she received a mandate from Serbian citizens to do something, to sort out the situation in the country, because unless she is able to do so, someone else will come, some other political majority will come and do the job. That is why it was necessary for you to speak to the citizens in an open and honest manner and ask whether they were for a journey to the future or for an economic collapse, to continue mingling in the promises of those who simply left Serbia in this situation by 2012. In 2014, a practical, arrangement with the IMF began a set of economic reforms and fiscal consolidation. More than 300 laws relating to economic reforms and over 300 acts relating to fiscal consolidation were passed in this assembly. Today we have results and we have something to boast about, and first of all, to congratulate the citizens of Serbia that they really did a good assessment when they supported Alexander Vukic and SNS in the elections. Of course, nothing could have been realized if it hadn't been for a truly responsible monetary policy and the National Bank of Serbia, which helped to implement a whole set of reforms and fiscal consolidation, because when it comes to public debt by 2012, some evil languages say, that Serbia lived from 2000 to 2012 from large donations and from the fact that the course that moved in those 12 years, between 60 dinars and 123 dinars, went in favour of reducing public debt, contributed to the fact that individuals became rich overnight, and that their companies had practically become the main financiers of the Republic of Serbia. So Serbia looked to the moment until the DS divided into about five factions and went into history, and when the SNS came to sort out everything they had done until then. From 2012 to today, we have the opportunity to see that large construction sites, large infrastructure projects have been launched, but it was necessary to create conditions and ultimately, the finance minister and the entire ministry are tasked with, with their knowledge and experience, in a certain way, giving their policy and guidance to the ministries how to achieve savings in the current budget and to achieve this surplus with which there will be a certain increase in wages and pensions, but also the possibility of certain projects being realised. Now for the first time with this budget, we have the possibility of creating a programme budget. That means you plan your finances, plan your projects, plan to actually pay off those salaries and pensions without fear of money being gone. So this is what I'm trying to simplify now, so that every citizen understands why it's important that this budget of Serbia, for the first time since 2005, will have these results planned at a minimum, extremely minimal deficit, and that we will end this year with a surplus. So, more revenue will be made by the budget than will be spent and that next year we expect such results. What should be said, is that on the Committee on Finance, we had the opportunity to hear the debate on the part of the Fiscal Council, which delivered some of its opinions, highly professionally, but should tell the citizens of Serbia what the Fiscal Council said and why it should be told the citizens why the Ministry of Finance has not come out of contact with the Fiscal Council. The fiscal council said there was 5% chance of an increase in wages and pensions. He also said that they do not see the possibility that this should be increased in this way, but go to an increase of 2.5% to the net and the rest to the gross. This means that the nominal increase would double the increase of any pensioner and any member of the public administration. Second, they were against the increase in salaries and pensions of public administration employees. That should be said openly to the citizens of Serbia. What the Fiscal Council has also insisted is that tax exemptions from companies that are now being opened for the first time with employees, which is one stimulating measure for the creation of new jobs and new businesses, are presented as one option of manipulation, i.e. money laundering by large companies. Of course, no one had any idea that there was a possibility. The economy ministry, NAED and all business associations have been looking for it for years, and the measure existed before 2008. But since we now have a lot of manipulations, obviously there is a reserve with which, after all, the Ministry is ready to limit that number and the level of total giving, in terms of the number of salaries per year. So, this concept of constructive discussion between the Fiscal Council, at the end of the MPs of the Finance Committee and the Ministry of Finance, exists. It's not that the Ministry and the government won't hear the fiscal council's decisions, but those who read the fiscal council's reports have to read from the beginning to the end. You can't just take what you like and what you don't like to keep quiet. Why am I saying this? Because the Fiscal Council in June did a study on local public finances "Problems, Risks and Recommendations" and told Belgrade that in the past public investment funds were secured by borrowing, exclusively by borrowing, and that it was completely exhausted, that Belgrade's investment in 2008-2012 was over 200m euros and that there was an unsustainable economic way of functioning of Belgrade's city, that Belgrade's debt therefore increased to about 60m euros at the end of 2008, and to 410m euros at the end of 2013. Therefore, when we talked about public debt and general debt, the public wants to replace the total termological thesis of Belgrade's debt in 2012, and how much in 2013. In 2012, don't forget, the mayor was Mr. Gilas. The final bill was worked by Mr. Gilas, who exclusively demonstrated his borrowing from international institutions on his loans. They are 400 million, but in 2013, when there is an economic collapse, Mr. Gilas loses the assembly majority, as the council realizes that the city is being led in a highly inefficient, unsustainable economic way and that there will simply be bankruptcy in the City of Belgrade. It's being taken over temporarily by Mr. Cynthia Mali. On 31.12.2013, you are in a position to receive all debts. So we're talking about total debt at the end of 2013, and we're not talking about public debt. That replacement thesis wants to minimize, in fact, all those debts of those who did so by 2012. Debt on 31.12.2013 is 1.118,716,459 dinars. What goes into that debt, into the structure of this debt? It includes 662 million total commitments on loans for projected interest until the end of the repayment period, obligations of Belgrade city municipalities – 18,241,000, public utility obligations and public enterprises in the city of Belgrade – 33,967,000 and the unsettled commitments and unsettled budgets of 50 million for socially endangered categories. Well, that's the result of the so-called work. the very successful city government of Mr. Gilas by 2013. The debt situation on 15 September 2017, meaning this year, Belgrade City, headed by Sinish Mali, is 547,792,000 dinars. So, the proposal in general, when we talk about capital investments for the City of Belgrade, is now, in 2017, close to 20 billion dinars, and for the next year, 23 billion dinars. With great success and great power, the city administration, the daily life of Belgrade City, were to pay off a part of all these debts, settle all creditors and debtors who are also in local self-government, public enterprises, in social categories and lead a normal life in the City of Belgrade, which began to expand. Today you have 1200 construction sites, you have issued building permits by the end of 2017 for a million squares to be built. So we're talking about the City of Belgrade as one metropolis that's developing and everybody likes to come to. After all, this shows the results of tourists whose favorite destination is so-called. "Belgrade weekend is full". What has to be said is that the income that the City of Belgrade generates from tourism every year is growing and higher and their growth is moving more than 12% permanently. That's what opens new jobs. That's what simply gives young people the opportunity to be hired here. Look at the employment results. In this year, at the end of the year, we have for the first time less than 100,000 unemployed. At this point we have 89,000 unemployed in the city of Belgrade, 66,000 people who are unemployed this year found a job. Employment was going through this. In 2013 there were 108,700 unemployed in Belgrade, so that in August 2017 it would fall to 89,000. Therefore, what concrete results show is that unemployment decreases and that it really goes that way towards 11%, halved from 2012. So, the republican budget, of course, includes the city of Belgrade's budget and all the local self-government budgets are covered by the republican budget. What's important is to say that 54 billion were given to projects. Subsidies showing 87.6 billion dinars show that these subsidies are heading towards investment, but don't forget that everything we call subsidies to support certain public enterprises, without which the state simply can't function, at certain times when you take a place as a full member of the EU, we won't be able to use it anymore. Therefore, now is the chance, while we are in the process of European integration, that simply all these investments from the budget are going into investment, and that by socially responsible policy we are really covering all our givings that are the need for non-productive interests, which are education, science, culture and health. So they can't go so much as a degree of growth until that growth rate of economic activity is 5%. It is therefore important that we, as a society where we have real investment, move on to knowledge-based and innovation-based investments. Therefore, the two basic characters of the formation of this government and the two topics given in the exposé were digitisation and innovation. That's why we have a special innovation ministry, but we haven't forgotten the population policy. We have seen from the presentation of Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic that we have indeed been seriously dealing with this problem for the past four years, and I think there is also support from the Ministry of Finance for the time being. I think that the set of laws that we had today to discuss, you saw that they are going in line with this rebalance and in line with the draft budget, give us the opportunity for Serbia to go in the right direction, go through high growth because only with the help of such high growth can Serbia go forward, and therefore regional co-operation will go in that direction. Of course, there are always big problems on that road and of course you have to solve these problems, but when you have great challenges, you have great opportunities to really achieve high results. For this, we should all give our thanks together to the President of the Republic of Serbia, of course, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, to all ministers, but of course to all those who manage the budgets, which are part of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why am I saying this? Because it was very difficult to get used to people who work with public finances that control must exist, that DRI can get into each of the institutions, that this internal control system, control before self-control, must exist, because that's why you save huge resources for the state and thus simply introduce not only the fiscal system, but also the way these institutions function. In voting day, this whole set of laws with the satisfaction of the SNS will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-07-0.u27001	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Thank you to all the MPs for the discussion today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
