ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19888	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 57 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 105 MPs present in the hall, and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the next MPs, or only Ambassador Zarko Korac has announced himself. We continue to work and move on to a search in details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE BASES OF THE EDUCATION AND TESTING SYSTEMS. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Mladen Sarcevic. Also called were Health Minister Zlatibor Loncar and their co-workers at the ministry. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted to the same text: Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19889	For saving time, I won't explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19890	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic and Milorad Mircic. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19891	Article 1 of the Proposer has been governed by the subject matter of the law. It is a system-based, roof law, which regulates the basics of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, as well as adult education. No inaccuracies are allowed in the concreteisation of the bill, as this may later interfere with the application of the law itself. In this case, the case works, it has been pointed out that the law needs to be regulated, among other things, knowledge, calling, skills and attitudes. I'd like to see how these attitudes can be regulated by law and what it looks like. Each law as a combination of the profession in question, in this case education and education, legal professions and sciences and techniques, i.e. normative and language professions. Given the language structure and freedom, the proponent's tendency to repeat general provisions, we have suggested that the words, at the end of the line, should be deleted in Article 1, as well as other issues necessary for education and education. Once it is necessary to stop adding to the norming of the law legal pins and misunderstandings, the type, and other questions. What should have been normized or thought to be needed, it's normized, there's no room reserved that later calls or calls for something that's general. Since under this, other questions may include something that is not suitable for education and education, we have therefore proposed to delete this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19892	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. Do you want a word? (No) MPs Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19893	In Article 1, we have proposed to delete the 5th attitude that speaks of terms, this is some innovation and we have seen that you have it in almost every bill. To be honest, this is total nonsense for you to write that the terms expressed in this law mean, in grammar terms, the natural male and female species of the person to which they apply. Indeed, it means absolutely nothing and it doesn't matter, Minister, if you have good ones, or if you have inspectors, it doesn't matter whether they're male or female. The important thing is they're good, they're doing a good job, and they won't cheat on you or the ministry. You were the other day, in Zemun, in a school that has been disputed for a long time, i.e. the director of the previous and this newly elected one, where we have precise, and here we have today's parents from Svetozar Miletic School sent us a memo. They asked us to forward it to all the MPs and we did it. So we, both in public and in this appeal today, have precise views of theirs that make them think they shouldn't change the director of that school. You ministers and the public haven't told us what your arguments are yet to be made. We don't want to be judges, but we just want to hear the Ministry's arguments. You instead of doing it seriously, sending some serious man there, if you can't do it, or you don't have time, you sent that accordionist, Mark Milenkovic. You saw how he got there. You've seen how he's doing, and you ministers need to keep an eye on that man and he'll cheat on you. He betrayed and cheated on the SRS. This Marko Milenkovic will come to you with misinformation. It'll put you in a position to misjudge what he says. So, we ask you to take care of it and regardless of the calls, this is also how it relates to this member, because at first I stressed, it does not matter whether the minister is an inspector, a teacher, a director, a man or a woman, it is important to do his job in a safe, valuable and professional manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19894	Thank you. The amendment, added after Article 1a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19895	Thank you. The amendment that we have made, that is, concerns what I discussed in the main debate, which is... I would ask you to calm down the ruling majority. And that's that education is the right of a child. This article is about that, education is a child's right, it implies, I will read, that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide funds for each child's preschool. Education fully paid from the budget without any mandatory participation of parents. Then, it is required to provide funds for equipment for pre-school, primary and secondary education for all users, and these are all children who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially, but not exclusively for textbooks, notebooks, pens and computers. It means that really education is the right of a child, that it is not a question of parents but a question of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that every child who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia has this right and that it is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to give him this education regardless of the economic strength of the parents. This can be paid from the budget. We gave one bill in an explanation that says that, let's say, elementary school in Serbia attends about 560,000 students. The purchase of all textbooks for all children in primary schools would cost about 56m euros, such as all children of our diaspora have textbooks in schools abroad, where they go to school. So these rich countries, such as America, Canada, EU countries, are getting, or borrowing, children's textbooks. Every four years they change, move from generation to generation, then this cost decreases four times. So practically, for the purchase of all textbooks for all children of primary schools in Serbia, 560,000 of them are enough about 14m euros per year, representing 0.15% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So this can be paid. The second thing, for high school students, there are about 260,000 for the purchase of all textbooks on the same principle, it would cost about eightm euros, or 0.88% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So we should finally move from word to deed, and instead of talking about how kids are priority, talk about how talent is priority, talk about these things, let's do something concrete. This is a small budget expenditure and it's possible to pay all these expenses for all the children. To remind you, the average household income in Serbia is somewhere around 57,000 dinars. It's a whole household, which includes often pensions, because we have extended households and salaries for all those who work. So, just 57,000 on average for one average family. Getting a textbook for one child costs from 10,000 to 17,000 dinars. If you have two kids, multiply by two. From this we clearly see that the cost of just getting textbooks is one huge cost that parents, in practice, really is magic as they deal with it. So it is possible that this cost will take over the Republic of Serbia's budget. When we look at the subsidies given every year, it is a billion euros, this cost is around 14m euros. That's how much we could cut our subsidies. The cost for high school textbooks is about 8m euros. So this is possible to accomplish. We have suggested that this amendment be accepted. Unfortunately, the government refused. The minister, although in his presentation and later on in the discussion, said he understood these things, no understanding was clearly found for such a small cost. It's very important that we discuss this, it's very important that the citizens know that it's possible to pay this cost and that, in fact, the government would have to say one moment to move to action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19896	Parliamentarians Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19897	For the same reason, I won't explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19898	The amendment, added after Article 2a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19899	The amendment refers again to education as the right of every child. I'll repeat these questions and expect some answers. So we need to move from word to deed, funding textbooks, we've given here a possible score for textbooks, for children of all primary schools and all secondary schools in all Serbia, and they cost about 0.2, 0.3%, of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Compared to what Er Serbia is given every year, these about 40m euros, which is a special subsidy they received, this is more than twice the cost for all textbooks, for all children in primary schools. It's possible to pay for this. I don't understand why the government insists on all other things, and it doesn't do what is essential for all parents and all children in Serbia. People live very hard and have little money in their budgets. They're getting smaller and smaller. Family incomes are small. This cost is really very low for the Republic of Serbia's budget and there are so many places where savings could come or there could be redistribution of funds, this cost would have to be paid. In this amendment, education is a child's right to have a provision that says – that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide transportation for all users, for all our students from house to school and back from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so that all children have paid tickets, tickets where there is no transport, to be provided. This exists for all the children of our diaspora living abroad. The countries are responsible for their children, education is the right of children, and we have to give them that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19900	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19901	Just for a little while. We talked about the fact that in this home will be found the law on textbooks and that the total number mentioned by the MP will certainly be lower, that standards for digital textbooks are also done. When it comes to transportation, I think we'll get to this category of free textbooks very quickly. On the other hand, transport is left to local self-government, and where they are very well organized and doing their job well, there is transportation free of charge. It remains to be analysed where they are not, why they are not, and it does not have to be apostrophe in the first members of the law. It's a question of realising, and even the old law didn't defend it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19902	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19903	As far as I can see, the legislator has accepted a total of 24 amendments from the mountains of amendments that have been submitted. Of those 24 amendments, 15 comes from the opposition, and of that, 14 are mine. I've submitted 74 amendments. It's accepted 14th. All 14 refer to spelling and spelling errors. I can't believe the billmaker feels that the opposition's contribution to the National Assembly is something that needs to be reduced to the corrections of verbal and spelling mistakes. Please, I've had fundamental amendments to practical situations that happen in real life, about which there's nothing political, and nothing controversial. They were all rejected with – we didn't imagine it that way. I am pleased that the legislator takes the importance of correcting the spelling and spelling errors in the laws we are making, but I ask that the opposition's attempt be taken a little more seriously, that the amendments fix the proposed solutions in the bill. There will be discussions through the other amendments that you have refused, and I hope that during the discussion there will be room for the draft law to change its mind and accept another fundamental amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19904	Parliamentarians Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19905	I won't explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19906	Marko Atlagic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19907	Since the government's proposal is better, I'm withdrawing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19908	You'll have to close the debate in writing to withdraw the amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. None of the proposers? Right? Here you go, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19909	I'll use the MP's time. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers, we wanted to better define the position of Article 1 and to add that each person has the right to education and education, but with full respect, specific interests, abilities, talents and the need of every student. This amendment is general, but it points to what we really want to achieve with these amendments that we have submitted. We want to focus on every student, every child, individually. This amendment makes one introduction for some of my amendments that I have submitted and that I will talk about later, and I mean special groups of children who need additional support, I mean educational, health and social. Your job, Minister, is to give each student an equal chance without discrimination, in cooperation with the other ministers. I don't think that's the case in practice. We know that there are students with whom teaching assistants work because the interresor commission has defined and thus made a decision. There are students with whom pedagogical assistants do not work, if the inter-resor commission has decided it is necessary to work. There are students and children who do not have personal escorts even though the inter-resor commission has decided that they need to work with them and there are children who have personal followers. So we have an educational process that doesn't give equal chances and ministers are hard to say, but I'm going to use it, this is about mild child discrimination. Parents are forced to accept personal escorts even though the inter-resor commission has assigned pedagogical assistants. Parents are in a position to quit their jobs to deal with children, to simply be in the education process, to be in school, even though it is an obligation of the state, your obligation to the Minister, because they are in this law, because they are in one process of education. I'll talk about it a lot more when the time comes and the amendments I've made, this, and this amendment, ministers, make a prerequisite for these amendments to be complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19910	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19911	Can I, as an amendment to the president?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19912	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19913	Mr Nikolic, a colleague of Nikolic, said one of the aspects of this amendment, but it is not the only one. That's what we talked about when we talked about the debate in principle, about everything, in each profession we have an individual approach to everyone. Doctors, when patients come to them, don't prescribe the same medicine for everyone, they don't have the same prescription, the same therapy for each patient, but they match what they say about what the patient needs. We have personalized orders on social networks, we have a car, Mr. Sarcevic, which can be ordered today, just so they match you as a buyer. In everything we have personalized access only in education we have one teacher, one teacher, standing in a classroom opposite 30 children, telling everyone the same thing, in the same way and expecting them absolutely the same result. You say in your explanation why you refuse this amendment, the amendment is not accepted because the bill is more comprehensively governed by the right to education and education. First of all, if we were to explain the amendments like this, we would be rejected by the amendments, given that it's illegal to explain, when we suggest something, we have to say what we're proposing. But even if we accept that, how is it possible that something we propose to supplement is less comprehensive than what you suggested? Perhaps I have a different understanding of what the word means – more comprehensive, more comprehensive? I guess that's more inclusive, meaning something that involves more, so I don't know how when it says less can cover more or you just don't want our amendments to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19914	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic and Milorad Mircic. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19915	This member is prescribed that every person has the right to education and education, more precisely the equality of the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this area and that is civilizational fluid. The promoter realized that there were persons with developmental and disability disorders, but those with exceptional abilities, which is quite all right, but it's not enough. The right of all persons must also have an additional guarantee that their specific educational and educational needs will be secured already in relation to the basis of this law. The talented young people with the above-average intellectual abilities, and this is the practice of rich societies having special treatment. To get into the ranks of the rich, and we have a talented young world, we propose a supplement of Article 3 where these young people would be provided with minimum conditions, which are accommodation and transportation to the nearest school where they will develop godly abilities with proper training and training. The new position of the 5th member should be read – if for objective reasons there is no possibility that special departments, i.e. schools are opened on the territory of local self-government, are also obliged to provide transport to persons with exceptional abilities, i.e. accommodation to the nearest school that provides such opportunity. I guess we'd have to do this much in our poverty for our future.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19916	The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19917	The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to this member of the law, which speaks of students with exceptional abilities, because unfortunately today there are fewer and fewer of them. It is incomprehensible for me that the minister and this government have not accepted this amendment, because we know that education has strategic importance for every country and every society. Education, essentially translated literally, means making a man, and that's a man with a big letter "c". Education means finishing the education process. An educated man is not only the one who has certain knowledge from mathematics, English, or other languages, an educational man is the one who, above all, knows the answer to the most important questions and who can submit his knowledge to the norms of moral behavior. Unfortunately, we in Serbia today, and even beyond, have fewer and fewer real teachers. When I say, "teacher," first of all, I think of all those who provide the process of education, that is, all those who carry knowledge and those who, as I said, are getting smaller and smaller. Students and students and all today are given secondary knowledge, while primary knowledge is not provided and the question is whether anyone is able to provide them with such knowledge. A valuable rock led by our people who carry knowledge is not primarily handled by giving the beauty of the exalted and showing the students and students the disgustingness of the unworthy, but rather by some pattern and ultimately ends up where they don't need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19918	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19919	We have submitted the amendment and the promoter has responded that he cannot accept the amendment because it does not comply with the concept of the bill. It's really hard to find a concept of this law, this bill. This is one of the few laws that absolutely has no concept. I must draw your attention, first of all, to the promoter, the promoter does not have constitutional authority to equalise foreigners and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the Constitution knows only one category of rights where they are equal, and that is the right to inherit. In all other rights, foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Serbia cannot use the resources and potential of the Republic of Serbia as do citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We just wanted to draw attention to the legislator that when it comes to foreigners, people without citizenship and persons seeking citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, if they do, they can have the right to education under special conditions, not in the same way, or under the same conditions as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the Constitution simply does not allow it. It doesn't allow the Constitution. The constitution also when it talks about foreigners and their rights in the Republic of Serbia, it mentions another famous word, which is reciprocity. Here, to ask these people who have proposed this law, they say they have some concept, let's tell me how to interpret the reciprocity of the Republic of Serbia and Iraq. Has the citizens of the Republic of Serbia been granted the right to education under the same conditions as the Iraqis or some other territory where migrants come from? Here a simple concept is media and they push it, counting on the high degree of humanism, and how much does it cost these citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Is that what you've been thinking about? You have an obligation to take care of whether the financial opportunities of this space allow you to throw yourself away like this, so before you get any funds from abroad to cover those costs incurred by education of people who, unfortunately, are migrants and unfortunately, migrants in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19920	Parliamentarians Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19921	We have proposed this amendment to add a new position in Article 3 after Article 5, which reads: "The basic and secondary education is mandatory. “ I am very glad to hear in the discussion that many colleagues have supported such a proposal, and I am sure that this would be the best thing you could possibly do with this law. Since we've had a lot of objections to this law and we've agreed that he, such a treasure, is not the best, I think this is something that you could certainly atone for the full adoption of this law. If you really wanted to do something for the benefit of this country, to be our education, culture and even society really advanced and better, then you should also introduce mandatory secondary education. Besides, Article 28. The Convention on the Rights of the Child prescribes the obligation of the States to make education compulsory. The Committee for the Rights of the Child made a recommendation to the Republic of Serbia in 2008, meaning nearly 10 years ago, that it also made secondary education compulsory, and the regulation of primary and secondary education obligations would be in line with the positive practices of a number of countries, including countries in the environment such as Croatia. Not to say how much that would really contribute to the common good. If you really don't want people to be uneducated, that people don't have the basic consciousness of education and culture, then you can continue with this practice. If you really want to go forward, really do something good, which would be in favor of the whole country, so you don't want to be transferred to love to have the people uneducated, that the people don't know anything, that they're just rounding up something they're told to him, etc., if you wanted to drop all these accusations and really be proud of something you've done, then you could accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19922	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19923	I think the answer is very reasonable, something that doesn't exist in the Constitution can't even be in this law. We have made it very clear that as soon as the opportunity for the Constitution to change, we will delegate the question. I agree, generally, with you, there's no discussion that it shouldn't be and it should have been a long time ago. Many European countries have that, and the degree of child coverage in high school is large enough that it is feasible absolutely and does not cost the country anything special. When it comes to training the children of asylum seekers and others, we have no expenses. So now everything's being paid out of donations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19924	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19925	I'm hanging in there. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must express my surprise that such an amendment has even passed the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. I want to believe it's an oversight. So we can't change something that isn't defined by the Constitution. I am fully in agreement with what the minister just said and I appeal to the parliamentary group, a very young parliamentary group, so perhaps the lack of experience has resulted in this totally unconstitutional amendment today, but here, let me give them some advice. In their MP group, however, they have an excellent lawyer who has celebrated himself in life in other areas, so let him try to explain to the previous speaker that such amendments simply cannot pass because they have nothing to do with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19926	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19927	First of all, I really don't know what kind of lawyer we have in our MP group at all? As far as I know, we don't have any, but maybe you know better than we do. Second of all, this doesn't mean that this is contrary to the Constitution. A law like this would be contrary to the Constitution until the Constitution changed. From what I hear, you'll be changing the Constitution anyway. Here, the minister confirmed it to me now, so I don't see an obstacle to doing this if you wanted to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19928	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19929	I realized that Mr. Minister said that he agrees with this proposal, but to see problems that are of a formal nature, which is that the Constitution currently does not allow it to be compulsory and secondary education, which is one interpretation of the Constitution. If it doesn't say in the Constitution that something is forbidden, I consider it illegal, not as a lawyer, I'm not a lawyer, but there are enough lawyers people can consult with when they don't know something. Of course, it is against the constitution to sign interstate agreements with Kosovo, with Pristina. It is illegal to support a war criminal as candidate and after Kosovo's elected prime minister, Haradinaj. It is forbidden that, if not by the Constitution then by some law, it should be discussed with some Sorosch, who has been declared the greatest evil here, so your party president does the same. The BIA chief was banned from being politically active, so if I saw correctly, he was photographed yesterday in a local community, where the ruling party was meeting. So, that interpretation of the constitution by the side of the SNS, it's like I'm doing atomic physics. It doesn't matter. Therefore, Krasic is in charge of atomic physics, and you are in charge of destroying Serbia and doing so, unfortunately, very successfully against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19930	Ambassador, I have to take your group for two minutes. You've replicated, and you haven't received the replica. But you didn't get it. [[Zoran Zivkovic: I was looking for a replica.]] (Zoran Zivkovic: Otherwise, I am an authorised representative. Yes, I see, but you didn't get a line from the chairman. I'd have to take two minutes. I won't, but keep in mind that if you don't get the right to a replica, you can't give it to yourself. (Zoran Zivkovic: I spoke as authorized. 15 minutes from the authorized time spent. (Zoran Zivkovic: That's right. ) Thank you very much. We understand. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19931	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not yet heard that the Constitution complies with the law. I've heard that for the first time today. That's almost impossible. The constitution is the law of all laws. The laws should be harmonised against the Constitution, not the Constitution against the law, so that the argument of gentlemen over absolutely does not stand, and among them is my fellow farmer who was prime minister. I can only say that we've been through well who our prime minister was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19932	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19933	Thank you, Chairman. I understand that the previous speaker, the speaker before Marijan Rističević, is guided by that people's that the Constitution is not the Holy Scriptures and we have had the opportunity to see in practice in his time that the Constitution was not really the Holy Scriptures, but to us from the SNS Constitution and laws are the Holy Scriptures, and as long as the SNS exercise power, the Constitution and the laws of this country will be the Holy Scriptures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19934	You, too, have been cut off by the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19935	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, for this amendment, I see that both the government and the opposition share the same opinion and I think it is good that we also enter into the amendments to the Constitution with this proposal, because mandatory middle education is good for our country and our people. As for this amendment, given that it is currently not in agreement with the Constitution, but if you enter into a change of the Serbian Constitution, this is also a good thing as a folk heir to the opposition Democratic Party, I support this initiative, because it is good to introduce mandatory secondary education. As the MP of the DS over the past amendments, I think it is good that Serbia has given the children of immigrants a chance to attend our schools and that is a good thing. Here we show the maturity of our country, where we show how ours were when they ran away, both from World War I and from World War II, our boys who finished colleges in Scotland, that Scotland accepted them, so that our people remember the persecution and our people returns, and I think that's how we should continue. I support that all children of migrants and refugees have the same rights, and that's the quality of a serious state, so there is no dilemma between the authorities and the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19936	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19937	Just to remind you, the theme of this amendment is to make secondary school education mandatory. The argument we heard on the other hand that it couldn't do it before the Constitution changed, it's just not true. Because if the Constitution said that high school education is not mandatory or that the Constitution says that secondary education is forbidden, then this amendment would be contrary to the Constitution. Since it does not say that in the Constitution, it does not say that secondary education is optional, this member, or the proposal is not contrary to the Constitution. This argument really doesn't make any sense. Here it is proposed that secondary education be mandatory and also as part of the amendments submitted by the DJB, that all costs be paid, I think this would be a significant step forward, a combination of these two things, and the acquisition of textbooks and obligations, so that all costs are covered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and children get this secondary education. So I ask you to indeed, it is inconclusive to say that the Constitution in any way prevents today from adopting an amendment that says high school education is also mandatory. Every lawyer will tell you this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19938	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19939	Dear Presidents, such as primary education and education, is a very serious thing, so is higher education and secondary education a very serious thing. It's not only that my colleagues brought it up before me, the problem is that the Constitution has not defined it as compulsory secondary education, but it needs certain pedagogical, psychological and other preparations. This cannot be made quickly by decision of certain pedagogical preparations. So I think these are just suggestions from getting some cheap political points. I ask you, since education and education is a very serious thing, let's not do it on behalf of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19940	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19941	Let me just say I don't really see any point. I wanted to pick up the line. It's impossible to say this is about getting cheap political points. I think it's really a shame that any colleague thinks it's not good to have a mandatory secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19942	So, from the time of the group, there was no replica. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19943	Here, we have now heard the argument that education reforms are a good thing, a serious thing and that they require serious preparation, serious work. Well, then how serious is it that we get this law three days before the debate starts and we discuss an emergency procedure? Is this a serious approach and serious work, or is this parliament expected to just adopt what the government has proposed, without accepting a serious amendment? This amendment and this issue of compulsory high school education are serious and it is necessary to discuss it, and the Constitution is certainly not an obstacle. If there is a will, if we want to create citizens who are thinking, who are free, and not subjects obedient, then we will reform education in another way compared to what these laws propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19944	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19945	Thank you, President. The theme of this amendment, colleague Chabraya, is that high school education is mandatory. I think it is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There is no member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that explicitly states that compulsory secondary education is prohibited. So it can be consistent with the Constitution. I would never suggest or advocate something that is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I am very surprised that in one very strange way the ruling majority today treat the Constitution as to how much the Holy Scriptures, and on the other hand, although it is not according to the Constitution and it is explicitly said that this must not be a pension reduction, the ruling majority here voted to reduce pensions to pensioners in Serbia. Although it is not under the Constitution to make a government with Haradinaj, the government, or the ruling majority here along with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, supported Kosovo's government headed by war criminal Haradinaj. So many things that are not under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are voted here, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no problem in this regard breaking the Constitution. And when it comes to compulsory high school education, that's what's on the line. I think it's more than hypocritical. I think that the legal services of Minister Sarcevic have completely failed, and I believe that this is a very important issue that parliament must discuss, not in a way that fellow Djurisic said, that this is being put in place by an urgent procedure and that only what is in the interest of Minister Sarcevic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, is eventually adopted by a few of the SNS here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19946	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19947	On the basis of being an MP and having the right to discuss the amendment, what MP Zoran Krasic knows, but he likes to throw away, which brings great attention to certain MPs. But it doesn't matter. So, the amendment of Parliament by Aleksandra Chabraje is very clear and I fully understood in this direction also Minister Sarčević who said that the amendment is good, that it can be considered, but that it is really necessary to wait for a possible change of constitution that would include compulsory education in the sense that secondary education is mandatory, as is essential for all children of our country. What we heard in a further discussion than most MPs, unfortunately from the opposition, their understanding of the provisions of the Constitution. First, the Constitution never forbids anything. I assume there are both lawyers or MPs with greater experience who know what it means to write the Constitution, what constitutional provisions mean, and what constitutional provisions read. It is never written in it. It is forbidden. We can go from the very preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that the AP of Kosovo and Metohija is an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia, so that if the interpretations proposed by certain MPs, which we heard before my discussion, would be applied, then, when God does not one day give them the lead of the state, and this Constitution remains in force, the interpretation of the Constitution will be applied like this – and in that preamble, Kosovo and Metohija as the northern province of the Republic of Serbia may also be an alienating part of one day. Excuse me, south. Thanks for the intervention. So what we heard earlier than most MPs from the opposition, one legal ignorance and one final interpretation of the Constitution as the highest act of the Republic of Serbia is a dangerous interpretation in which it is proposed that when something is not prohibited in the Constitution, and I must underline that nothing is ever prohibited in the Constitution, but is written what is possible, or allowed in the legal order of our country, to then begin by interpreting that everything that is not prohibited is allowed in this country. I would pray that if my colleagues had no knowledge, they would refrain from such flat-rate interpretations, because then they would bring different interpretations, very dangerous, according to our country's constitutional and legal order. Thank you. Otherwise, it's not a bad amendment, as an idea, that we all think together when the debate on the amendments to the Constitution is open, that we don't all focus -- we need a smaller number of MPs, or, let's talk about a future for someone, how to arrange relations between Belgrade and Pristina, but let's think about it in a broader way then, and then the MPs of the opposition get involved in that debate, not to say in advance – no, we won't. Because, well, there are good ideas that can be adopted in any changes to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19948	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19949	I'm using time as an authority in front of a parliamentary group. For example, this is a very interesting interpretation now given by the President of the Assembly that it must not be accepted that everything that is not forbidden is allowed. Here's a little example. For example, Article 60 of this Law states that the plans for teaching and learning in primary and secondary education contain a list of mandatory subjects. Is there a list of mandatory items in the Constitution of Serbia? How can we propose a law that contains a mandatory list of items when it is not in the Constitution? I don't know if you realize how pointless this is if you watched things like that. So anything that is not explicitly prohibited in the Constitution and in the laws is allowed, or free. You better say, if you won't accept this already – we don't want secondary education to be mandatory. Say it freely, what's the problem? Do not invent constitutional members or constitutional prohibitions that do not exist. Tell the citizens of Serbia – we do not want secondary education to be available and mandatory for all people, for all children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19950	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19951	Also after the amendment. Don't yell, please. Can I get the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19952	Take it easy, everybody's gonna get their turn. Just a little patience. Guys, don't be nervous, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19953	Can I get a replica, because they didn't understand and what I put out is completely wrongly interpreted. If you'll excuse me, I'd like a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19954	In accordance with Article 104, here you go, replica, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19955	Ambassador Dusan Pavlovic, who spoke before me, is a professor of political science, as far as I know. And there is an object there - constitutional law. He can correct me if I don't know better. But this is something terrible that we have heard, that someone who teaches in one university says that everything that is not forbidden by the Constitution is allowed, and that the implications that MPs are saying that we must respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are malicious and they do not want to introduce free education for children. I would pray, indeed, for the citizens of Serbia, that we are telling the truth here and that out of 250 MPs here, I am not sure, except that children who are migrants, who had to flee from their countries and leave because of war crimes, so someone here wants to ban them from having little part of that child's joy and to be educated in a country where they currently live, there are such MPs, but all the other MPs are also pushing for the rights of the child and for compulsory primary and secondary education. But when you can't do something in one country, because of the respect of the Constitution, then you can't. But it's no problem to change the Constitution. After all, the abolition of compulsory secondary education has not started since yesterday, and we all know that here and don't let some small and small points, or because any elections were announced in December, that we are now telling Serbian citizens the truth. That's not true. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, whether we want some or not, we must respect it, because since Tito is gone, which he said – don't exactly stick to the Constitution as a drunken vessel – all authorities have been trying to respect the highest act of a state since then, and that is how it will be, as long as the government doesn't change, and as long as some revolutionaries or Red Commers come, who will want to work past the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19956	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19957	Thank you, Chairman. Serbian Parliament President Maja Gojkovic, who is otherwise a lawyer, said that nothing is forbidden under the Constitution, but I don't know how then the Constitution says that discrimination is forbidden, that it is forbidden to censor, that the slavery that you introduce indirectly in this way of education that you want to implement in Serbia, that there is no conflict of interest, that it is forbidden that political parties can exercise direct power and that the power is subdued, so it happens in Serbia. You want to change the Constitution and in this sense that everything depends on you and your political party, the fate of Serbian citizens, the fate of some kids who want to live in this country in the future? I think that in this way you have brutally violated your knowledge, as a lawyer, of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, what it can and cannot do under that Constitution, and to say that free secondary education is forbidden. It doesn't say anything, but it's not in your interest, because you don't want Serbian citizens to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19958	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19959	I am fascinated, otherwise, by the respected chairman, by the legal knowledge of the respected MEP Balša Bozovic. I'm so fascinated that he left me with no breath, no words and no comment. What he said, therefore, is not in harmony, nor is the answer to my discussion. I have said exactly what is forbidden, and what cannot be interpreted, at least not in our country, if something is explicitly stated, basic education is mandatory, that everything that is not stated and is not prohibited in that sense. You know what? It's not worth spending any time on a debate like this, and when someone didn't get a certain basic education in time and can't exactly interpret what someone who went to regular school wanted to say. Those who listened carefully, and I addressed the citizens of Serbia, fully understood what I was going to say. What Ambassador Bozovic said here, it's some petty politics that really doesn't even talk about the amendment we're talking about, and he didn't understand me, and I don't expect him to understand what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19960	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19961	By amendment. I'd like to go back on the subject. This is too important an amendment and too important a subject to be spent by the usual political bickering. In that sense, I would suggest, colleagues if they wanted to agree, we all say, at least declared, that the proposal is good, that the amendment is good, that the idea... What's this about? If mandatory secondary education is something that's desirable, he's not wanted to give up power and I understand... Of course, why they don't like possible insinuations, because they're against it, because there's a dilemma about constitutional foundation. No one here is such a top-notch constitutional legal expert. The minister commended the amendment. The ruling majority also says it is good, they do not want to act and to be suspected of not wanting mandatory secondary education. So let's have the Ministry, we have the Education Committee, then let's really work on it in the next period, to consider the constitutional basis, to see if and how we can provide it, not spend it here, really time in public political bickering, which nobody cares about and what's more important, which nobody uses. As I said, education is a general, in particular, possibility of compulsory secondary education, which is an interesting and important proposal, and I think that we are all in this spirit to see if it is possible, if it is not possible to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19962	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19963	I'll go back to this discussion of what the Constitution forbids and what not. I think you're looking more closely at who signed up for the word when you're erasing the application for word from the system. I answered when it made a little more sense...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19964	I'm very careful and I take care of it. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19965	I don't want to keep things quiet around here. So, the President of Parliament, an education lawyer, regularly, and acquired in time, as he likes to say, is likely to differ from some colleagues who do not and do not. I'm not a lawyer, but here, I can read at least. Well, the Constitution Article 21 says – ban on discrimination, constitution Article 26. – ban on slavery, the position of similar slavery and forced labour, Article 76. - ban on discrimination against national minorities, Article 78. — prohibition of violent assimilation, Article 152. – forbidden political activity of judges, etc., etc. There's a lot of bans in the Constitution. And I wouldn't have answered if we hadn't heard from the President of Parliament, a lawyer who twice said the Constitution forbids anything. Nothing is written in the Constitution that is forbidden. And now it's very interesting to me, how does the president of parliament, who comes from the biggest party, somehow not know the soul in the Constitution, stand exactly these members who talk about the ban on discrimination against forced labour, about everything that Serbian society is abounding on today, in everything that Serbian citizens today cannot say they are free of? And, no wonder, if the president of parliament does not know that the Constitution of Serbia prohibits discrimination, that slavery is forbidden, that forced labour is prohibited, that censorship is prohibited. If she doesn't know it, then it's no wonder we live in the present day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19966	I won't answer the line, it has a basis. The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19967	Thank you. Once again, the President of the Assembly has come out here as a MP and said a few things that are simply not true. She said the Constitution forbids nothing. We heard several fellow MPs who clearly said, read the provisions of the Constitution that say the Constitution prohibits many things, including banning conflict of interest for the President of the Republic, from being party president at the same time. However, the whole discussion further about how God’s lawmakers do not know the Constitution, how they do not have the right to education, is indeed extremely hypocritical. So obviously, the basic ignorance of both the Constitution and the law, unfortunately not only of the President of the Assembly, but also of the Government that rejected this amendment with this argument. To repeat once again, we have also received this explanation that the Constitution states that basic education is mandatory, but for secondary education does not say anything. Since it doesn't say anything, and that's a fact, nothing prevents us from prescribing mandatory secondary education in this law. So this is something that should be the elemental knowledge of every lawyer, that what is not explicitly forbidden is allowed. If there is one provision of the Constitution, with which secondary education is mandatory, does not comply with one provision of the Constitution, then we can talk about it being against the constitution. So, it's about the elemental ignorance of neither the right nor the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which the President of the Assembly has shown here today, saying by saying that the Constitution, let me repeat, you have the recordings, we're going to make footage of this and make sure that all citizens see it, she said more than once that the Constitution does not prohibit anything, and she gave an extremely creative interpretation of it, as she says -- basic education is mandatory, that for some reason it can't be moderately prescribed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19968	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Sasa Radulovic is not usually telling the truth. I'd like to, seeing as he's become a constitutional law expert in the meantime, besides being an expert in bankruptcy, to read to us where it says in the Constitution that the President of the Republic can't be president of a political party? The opposition gentlemen were not well, or rather maliciously interpreted by Ms. Maja Gojkovic, who spoke as the MP of the SNS. Mrs Gojkovic said the Constitution does not prohibit anything regarding education, or that the Constitution does not know in the sphere of the education system. She said the idea of introducing compulsory high school education is essentially a good idea and that this should be discussed. So she didn't welcome the knife, as you would like to present the amendment submitted by an opposition colleague, but, you have to admit, it's inconclusive, no country does, by amendment, introduce mandatory high school education. This is a topic for a serious social discussion and a social debate involving the National Assembly and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, universities, citizens and all other relevant institutions. But the problem is something else. You have submitted this amendment not out of the desire to really introduce compulsory secondary education, but for day-to-day political reasons, so that you can attack the minister that he does nothing and that you can attack the SNS. I listened together with my colleagues and in principle debated the brilliant ideas of those who led the Republic of Serbia by 2012. Zoran Zivkovic talked about how scandalous it is that Serbian textbooks cost so much and so much. Now I ask him: Why didn't he share free textbooks in his day? He shared companies. I heard about how scandalous it is that students have to take their textbooks home instead of leaving them at school. Why didn't they leave them at school in your day? After all, here you are talking for more than an hour today about compulsory high school education, so who prevented you from introducing mandatory secondary education in the Republic of Serbia for 12 years. I see that you are now being built upon by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that is, sometimes you are building up, sometimes you are calling upon it, as it suits you. The Democratic Party, I remember that time very well, and how it participated in the creation of this Constitution in 2006, in the creation of a valid constitution. Who's been stopping you from doing your homework all the time in this country to implement all your genius ideas, to give students free textbooks, not to have to write at home as I've heard you say it was in Finland, to leave textbooks at school instead of taking them home, etc., who kept you from putting those ideas into practice? Who prevented you from introducing compulsory high school education? There are no problems in education and not all issues in education begin with the coming to the post of Minister of Education, Mr. Sarčević. The man came into the education system to arrange it, to take him down, and to a large extent he did it. These laws that are on the agenda these days are a step forward in editing our education system and basic and medium and high. As far as SNS is concerned, you, Mr. Minister, will have our full support in that, but here's the problem with something else. This is where he's hypocritically performing. Here, for all the problems we have objectively in school, both primary and middle and high, he's trying to blame you. Now it's Mladen Sarcevic's fault that students have to take their textbooks home, and they don't leave them at school. It is now Mladen Sarcevic's fault that it is not like in Finland to work domestically at school, and that when he comes home, there are practically no school obligations. We inherited an education system, I have to remind you, we inherited an education system that essentially originated right after World War II, better said the former Yugoslavia took it over from the Soviet Union, which means a broad education, a memory of a large number of facts, a large number of books. Was that education completely bad? I don't think so personally. Should I perfect it? I'm sure you should, but you can't do it over your knee. By yesterday high school education was not mandatory, now we will submit the amendment, adopt our amendment and then introduce mandatory high school education. It's not that naive. It is a question that requires a serious social debate and that is what Maja Gojkovic just said, she did not say that the amendment is not good and that it is not a good idea to introduce compulsory high school education, but rather a subject to be discussed. What's your problem? Your problem is that you don't want to talk, you refuse dialogue. You reject dialogue on anything and submit amendments exclusively for day-to-day policy reasons, so that you can present yourself as the protectors of children, or the protectors of parents. When I went to elementary school, at the time of the Socialist Yugoslavia, my parents paid me textbooks, not the state gave me free, and especially not today. You, finally, from the opposition, must define what your ideological orientation is, are you liberals, are you Marxists, are you for capitalism, are you for socialism, what are you for? So your orientation is cloudy. Your orientation is unclear. I understand Mr. Micunovic, he's always sore when it comes to it. In 1968, Belgrade University wanted to call "Red University Karl Marks". Well, that's the time, there were popular student movements in France, Germany, and there was a bit of a spill in us. But now all of a sudden, I need to hear about Mr. Micunović and DS's ideas about how basic school, high school and college should be arranged. Who prevented you gentlemen from doing all this for 12 years of your authority? No one was stopping you, but you didn't care about it. You were doing something else, setting up a tender, getting rich on a personal basis, buying apartments, turning pastures into construction sites. That's what you were doing. What did you care about elementary, high school and colleges? You're leading the hunt these days against the president of the Education Committee. In your day, private colleges were created. Which private college was founded by the SNS? You're the fathers of private colleges, and if someone doesn't get me wrong, I don't mind private colleges, there's good state colleges, there's bad state colleges, there's good private colleges, there's bad private colleges, there's nothing black and white. But I'm just being hypocritical when I listen – here you are from SNS, you're some falsified doctorates, diplomas from private schools, etc. Former Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic lectured, boasted at one of those private colleges that changed its name in the meantime. In your day, it's great when there are private colleges, when private colleges exist at the time of SNS rule, then it's no good. You and when you're in power then you're capitalists, then you're for Western values, when you're in opposition, then you're Marxists. Cut everything private, everything has to be state, everything has to be free, etc. I don't mind it being free, but then you gentlemen from the opposition, then you had to leave the budget in a much better shape than you left it in 2012, and you didn't empty everything alive, so I don't say you robbed it, and then you remembered -- well, now it's free. I wish we had the kind of situation we have in our budget today, that we had in 2012. Then it would be possible to do what you say and not empty your budget so you can't pay any wages or pensions, and then here after five years you say – well, give us free textbooks. Even at the time of Mr. Micunovic, they were not free textbooks. One more thing to point out. It is not true that basic education is being paid in Serbia. It doesn't pay, so it's free. You've been fooling citizens for days as SNS and Aleksandar Vukic allegedly introduced payment for elementary school. Nobody pays anything. The textbooks are paid for the wars, and for more wars, I pay them for my children, as you pay for your children, but it is not something that Mladen Sarcevic, Aleksandar Vukic, Maja Gojkovic or any of us. It's always been like that. We can talk about whether the price of textbooks can be reduced, whether we can fix the situation in schools, we can, but that takes money. Money can only be if we run a smart economic policy. If we run an economic policy, the policy that you have led, there will be no schooling in Serbia, no free, no payment, no such, no such. That's what Serbian citizens should know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19970	First I ask Professor. Micunovic, he was looking for a replica. (Saša Radulovic: Replica, I am first, mentioned by name and last name. ) (Goran Ciric: Replica, DS is mentioned. You asked for a replica, but he has an advantage, he has a name and a last name, and then a party. Professor, do you want a replica? Since it's full of leaves, you just tell me yes or no, and I'll give you my word. Please be nice, there's no need for someone to be a lawyer between the two of us. Professor, do you want a word? (Yes) Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19971	I think some would like to have one controversy with me, but there should be a prerequisite for that. First, to tell the truth. Second, to know the facts. Third, to conduct a debate on the case, not insults. Since I don't belong to people who will argue with anyone who wants to, I'm giving up this debate, with a gentleman who's called me so many times before, I don't want to lead the controversy, because I have a problem, I've heard on N1, on the question of journalists, but you've been making statements about Mr. Vukic and Nikolic, and that's what I got from Mr. Seselj's book on the person in question. His statement was – yes, I was saying it, but I didn't mean it. I have a problem when I listen to this man, whether what he's saying is what he's thinking or for some other reason. That's why I pick the conversational ones mostly. As for you personally, we spoke during your election, and you know how you spoke to me then, I told you at the time that I didn't want to compromise any more since I assumed that we had a whole other relationship, other and civilized relations. As for the textbook, Minister of Education, I don't see him here, Mr. Zarkovic, with great enthusiasm accepted my initiative to respect the Constitution and that what it says is free, so to be, as in most countries including those around our environment. The textbooks are free and shared, what someone doesn't know, that's another question. So, I don't want to go in, I've already given an explanation, since you've inappropriately called me several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19972	Thank you. It's full of leaves, so take it easy. You want to replicate Professor Micunovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer Mr. Micunovic to Branko Petrovic's book "The History of Yugoslavia" in three volumes. In one of those books, in the third book, if I am not mistaken, there is a photograph of Mr. Micunović with a group of then student revolutionaries from 1968, and below, a comment of photography – the red university "Karl Marks". So it's a historical fact. But I don't blame you for that, I'm just saying that you act one way when you're in power and another when you're in opposition. As for the gentleman you just mentioned, you are his old political friend, from the open university held by Milovan Gilas in Belgrade in the early 1980s. You've been writing him reviews of some books, representing him, or his political views in public, so that doesn't get me very excited. The only thing I don't get is that Mr. Micunovic came out, said that I don't know, and that he knows that the textbooks were supposed to be at the time when the DS exercised power were free, if I understood him correctly. Just to tell me when those textbooks were free, when a parent could come to some bookstore and say, "Good afternoon, my kid in grade three, give me a free set of textbooks for grade three. If you tell me what year it was, during which minister, I will apologize to you and I will tell you that you are absolutely right, but give me accurate information about what years the textbooks in the Republic of Serbia were completely free of charge, and the bookstores were obliged to give the parents, or children free of charge, to share the sets of textbooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19974	Thank you. The word has Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19975	The DS and Professor Micunovic were mentioned on several occasions. It was he, as an initiator, who realized together with the city of Belgrade what you suspect, which is free textbooks for students in Serbia and double sets in Belgrade, because the city of Belgrade had the potential for such a thing at the time of the coalition government along with the SPS, when the minister of education was Zarko Obradovic. Well, you can check with them all. However, it is obvious that with all these topics, which last ten to 15 minutes, we are moving away from something that is essential to the debate over the amendment by direct attacks on Professor Micunovic. We have supported this amendment, and that is mandatory secondary education. Now we've forgotten which amendment we're on. We forgot what the President of Parliament said when she spoke about the prohibitions in the Constitution. I'll remind you, she said there are no regulations in the Constitution, and that's why this amendment is not accepted. We have seen from my colleagues and the fact is when you look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that there are prohibitions and how, especially those bans concerning discrimination. We here in the Assembly are looking at all these years of discrimination against opposition MPs and all the proposals, although they are too much and acceptable, and this is one of the amendments that we can agree on. That is the essence of this story and I'm trying to get you right back to the bottom of it, trying to prove to you something that is notorous truth, which is that the textbooks were free in that period, that now you have to pay 10,000 to 17,000 dinars for a set of students' textbooks in elementary schools. It's something that really needs to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19976	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19977	You must tell me, Mr. Ciric, you who suffer great discrimination by being an adviser to the Post Office of Serbia and having a salary of 150,000 dinars, which years were the textbooks free, but for all students in the Republic of Serbia. We are passing a law concerning the entire Republic of Serbia, not for the city of Belgrade or for certain municipalities in the city of Belgrade, but for students throughout the Republic of Serbia. It wasn't and you know it very well. As for discrimination, as far as you from the opposition are concerned, did you hear the other day, the man's head hair wasn't missing, he wasn't even brought to the police, and on television he explains how the President of the Republic should be? He says it's not hard to hit him with a sniper. Open TV N1, open TV B92, now change the name, buy "Kurir", buy "Tabloid", buy all possible newspapers, NIN, "Blic", "Today" etc., worst possible insults, untrues at the expense of Aleksandr Vucic, Nebojja Stefanović, Maja Gojković and all of us from SNS. Then you say - censorship, we discriminate, we have no right. Well, who's discriminating you, sir? When in your day could the president of the opposition parliamentary group be the adviser of the general director of a public enterprise? Here, you are adviser to Mira Petrovic, director of the Public Enterprise Post Office of Serbia. Tell me what your salary is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19978	Talk to me, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19979	Here, I ask Mr. Ciric to tell me what his salary is and what discrimination it is when, at the time of Alexander Vukic's terrible reign, he is a consultant to the director of the Public Business of Post-Serbia with a salary of 150,000 dinars. I'd like someone to discriminate on me like that. I wish they'd discriminated against me when they ran this country until 2012. That's great discrimination. Look, he says I'm discriminated against, I'm an advisor to the Post Office, I have a salary of 150,000 dinars. I've never heard of such discrimination in my life.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19980	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19981	Thank you. The replica refers to the presentation of the head of the DS parliamentary group, and I could get a replica about the presentation of all MPs of the opposition who deliberately interpreted what I said, because they realized that they had spoken legal and political nonsensions and that Serbian citizens know very well that the Constitution must not and cannot be broken, and that I was talking about banning, some ban, and if something is not banned in the field of education, then it is allowed. The fact that I can quote preamble is my problem, and it's not Balša Bozovic's problem. I call on him to go to a quiz on the knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I invite Saja Radulovic. I can also invite those who have submitted this amendment, to discuss the general knowledge of the Constitution. I admit, they may, with their education and interpretation of the Constitution, rule this matter better. I didn't slow it down, I said the amendment was good, but it can't be accepted at this point because it doesn't comply with Article 71. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I also said that when someone from the opposition, my God, might have committed themselves to this current opposition, then interpret the Constitution as you wish, and according to Tito's instructions that we should not stick to the Constitution and the law as a drunken vessel. Article 71 says everyone in this country has the right to education. Article 2 – basic education is mandatory and free for children in Serbia, and secondary education is free of charge. You will not tell Serbian citizens aloud, thinking you can cloud the essence by attacking the SNS and the competent minister and the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19982	Thank you. The word has Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19983	So, again, we have reached a phase where we enter personal lives and I will answer those questions, but I think it is crucial that this issue and the return to the fundamental amendment and question, which is when and during what period were free textbooks in Serbia and the promise that the head of the parliamentary group will apologize if it receives evidence. You have your coalition partner sitting in these benches, an MP who in 2012, therefore, Zarko Obradovic, then Minister of Education, said, and you can check that, for three years now, there have been free textbooks for students from first to fourth grade primary school, from 2009 to 2012. Some of the cities and local self-government had enough potential and strength, as the City of Belgrade had, to realize that part of the textbook set was in school, and part of the free textbooks were carried by students to their homes. And I now expect your apology for having received clear information and confirmation that DS in the then government has provided with its coalition partners something that is important for all students. I wish we had that in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19984	Thank you. Injury of Rules of Procedure Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19985	I have the right, and I'm probably going to talk some time about Article 27(2), which is that the president takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. When you gave the replica to the previous speaker, he was obliged to respond to Alexander Martinovic's presentation. He clearly asked him – is it true that he as a threatened opposition, discriminated against receiving a salary of 150 thousand dinars, and is it true that he is the adviser to the Director General of the Post Office of Serbia? So that's what he ate, rather than what Serbian citizens must be interested in, and that remains in the air irresponsible. On the other hand, an MP is obliged to tell the truth. They were never shared during their government's new free textbooks. They promoted the replacement of old textbooks for a while and then it was partially shared for free, but they never shared free textbooks, and even during Tito and Mr. Micunovic, there I absolutely agree with the discussion of Aleksandar Martinovic. So, Article 27, take care of the application. You can't get a replica to talk beyond the subject. You need to focus on what's river before you answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19986	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Maya Gojkovic: Yes. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Alexander Jerkov. Sign up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19987	Thank you. Articles 103 and 104. First, Mr. Marinkovic, don't let Maja Gojkovic give you lessons about when you can give a replica. It was the first as a sacred rule in this congregation to introduce that the chairman himself decides on when he gives someone the right to a replica or not, so he won't even allow us when we report that we point to an injury in the conduct of the chairman, to resent what, for example, someone directly offended, called, misread, etc., and did not get the right to reply. So, don't hold on to your dignity a little bit, don't let People's MP Gojkovic determine when you're going to give you a replica. She, when involved in the debate, has rights like any other MP. It seems to me, as the Orwell would say, that it is a little more equal than the other Members of the people, but well, it is now part of her work in the Assembly. Secondly, Article 103, I do not know if you noticed that the MP Gojkovic had just come forward with a word, allegedly wanting to point out to you in a violation of conduct, the pro-forma cited a member who allegedly broke, and instead replicated to the MPs, misappropriating his right to point to you for an injury in conduct. I suggest that, either we put in place such rules for everyone, or we write in the Rules of Procedure that Maja Gojkovic, as well as a proposing representative, has the right to receive his word whenever he asks, speak of whatever he wants in unlimited duration. Either start applying the same rules for everyone, or tell us that some MPs are more equal than others so that we know where we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19988	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. Of course, MP Maja Gojkovic has the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to discriminate against anyone, of course she wouldn't, either. You want the Assembly to plead? (Alexandra Jerkov: Yes. Thank you. Maja Gojkovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19989	Thank you. Article 107 states that the MP is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It's not said to be more equal, it's a basic thing, which, I'm asking you, I'm speaking to you, which would be nice for someone to learn, and to learn to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Secondly, it is extremely important that after a number of years in this House MPs learn the Rules of Procedure. So any MP can report for a replica, that depends on the chairman and the evaluation, Article 104, paragraph 3, whether they will give it or not. On the other hand, he has the right, and of course, every MP equally, of 250 of us, to call upon the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Because someone is obsessed with my personality and my work and obsessed with my career, it's already to consider outside of this prey. As I can see, you are very kind to the MPs, that always after my presentation you let her say something, and I have a full understanding, after 27 years of politics, of such desire and such exposure. Thank you very much. I'm not gonna ask you to vote, because it's not about you or anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19990	Thank you. That is exactly what I was insinuating that Parliamentarian Jerkov, as an opposition MP, has the right to always point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to everything else for which he has the right to be a national envoy. Since we have a lot of reports, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Let's move on. Member of the 3a amendment, which is added after Article 3a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19992	Before this I have a replica you did not give me, but I was asked by MP Martinovic, the question is from the Constitution. He asked me directly why you didn't give me the replica. Which members of the Constitution violates the president of the SNS and the president of the Republic of Serbia, so I can read him Article 6. – a ban on conflict of interest that says – no one can perform a state or public function, which is in conflict with its other functions, business or private interests. The president of the SNS, his post, another function not public, is in conflict of interest with the position of President of the Republic. (Alexander Martinovic: What is this, you are in conflict with yourself, you bastard. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19993	Please, colleague Radulovich, continue speaking according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19994	This is the replica you had to give me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19995	You can't. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19996	This is the replica you had to give me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19997	You have no right to abuse a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19998	I don't abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u19999	You can't. You don't run the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20000	You had to give me the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20001	I didn't have to do anything. No one here has to do anything. We've got rules, we've got Rules of Procedure. I don't want to discuss it with you anymore. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20002	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the previous colleagues who are yelling that these are the rights that the amendment promoter has defined as the right of every child, that they have skipped. I wish the Constitution would allow secondary education to be mandatory, but retroactive. Most of them wouldn't even finish first grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20003	The word is given by the People's MP Marinika Tepic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20004	I thank the chairman. Since you didn't give me your word as soon as I asked for it, or directly after I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, which I think you've done, you'll consider what I'm responding to right now. I think you've hurt Article 8. In the first position, it is said that the session of the National Assembly is the former president of the National Assembly. I think the Rules of Procedure hurt you first when you set a break and gave a reason to give it because you have too many registered speakers. This is the National Assembly where the MPs come to speak and apply for a word. That's our job. That's why we came here today, and you've set a break and interrupted the discussion that makes us exist here and why we've been chosen. So it's completely unfounded to set a break to keep the registered speakers from speaking. Secondly, in comparison, your attempt actually continued, i.e. he was the result of the intention of Maja Gojkovic, who had previously said that he was disciplined and dissuading you from your rights and duties, let me finish the explanation, give us the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20005	Please, this has nothing to do with the members you mentioned earlier. Wait a minute. You've indicated the injury of certain members. What does Maja Gojkovic have to do with it now, which is neither in the O.R. nor with us here when we started the session together again, and I will answer you. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20006	You don't listen very carefully. It doesn't matter, Maja Gojkovic. It has to do with your reaction to the presentation of Maja Gojkovic, which caused you to want to take a break under a bad excuse and reason that there are too many speakers on the list, which is why we are in the National Assembly, and in fact you have succumbed to the attempt of disciplined previous speakers Gojkovic and you did not know how to cope, but to deny already registered speakers the right to turn to citizens. The amendment promoter, my colleague from the Civil Platform Alexander Cabray, has been waiting for more than half an hour to talk about the debate brought on by its amendment, and you are persistently not giving a word to those who have applied long before and MPs Gojkovic and MP Martinovic. I don't mind if we all talk, of course, right. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20007	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, you have in your Rules of Procedure article 112 which is just talking about when the chairman can set a break and, of course, a Article 27 that tells you about who takes care of the order at the National Assembly session and that explains it all to you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Marinika Tepic: Yes, I do. ) Balša Bozovic, injured the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20008	It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're a good man to Marinkovic, but what you allow from the presidency is something that...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20009	Just say which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20010	Articles 103 and 104. Five minutes ago, you told me I was entitled to a replica, because Mrs. Maja Gojkovic mentioned me by name and last name as someone who doesn't know what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. After a five-minute break, you have allowed Mr. Martinovic from his post to remind you whether you should give someone a replica or not, and that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where you judge whether or not someone has a right to do so, in Article 104, and let me finish, not Martinovic from the place to speak – no, yes, yes, it is not. I want to tell you that in the Constitution itself, what Mrs. Gojkovic did not know, which is why you did not give me the right to reply, states in Article 5 that it was forbidden by the Constitution to usurp the authorities. Can't Mr. Martinovic from his place...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20011	No, no. My colleague Bozovic, with all due respect to you, we can't now, is not Mr Martinovic's theme. You've pointed out the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 103 and Article 104, and you'll get every right today during a line-up session, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, don't worry at all. I had the right to continue the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to maintain order in the sitting itself, and I ask you to help me in this, and everyone will come to order, and have the right to speak. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marinkovic, I realized that you gave a break so that, I say, we could reset the discussion in the National Assembly and that we would return to the debate on amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20013	You're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20014	I repeat what I said at the beginning. So, Maja Gojkovic was deliberately interpreted. The woman said that the Constitution does not prohibit, that is, that it does not contain banning norms when it comes to the education system, and anyone who takes the Constitution can read it. So that's what Mrs. Maja Gojkovic said, and there's a very clear thing. Marko Djurisic: When did she say that? That's the problem, she didn't say that. ) As for those who earn, who scream, who think everything was great at their time, and nothing was good, and who never told us -- when these textbooks were free, just to remind them, here comes Mr. Dusan Pavlovic on social networks, you can find a video clip at a time when his president was a movement or party, what was he, a minister of business, where the distinguished Mr. Pavlovic says "You need to raise tuitions in colleges to cut yourself, the inflow of scissors on our universities. “ In those words, I quote. So the man at the time Sasa Radulovic was the minister asked to increase tuition. Now we're killed for days on how to give free textbooks, how expensive tuition is in colleges, etc. And they advocated that the tuition be bigger so that we would, say, reduce the shears at the university. So, are our kids a shrimp? Is our young man a shrimp? We don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20015	Thank you. In addition to these violations of the Rules of Procedure, these several discussions had absolutely nothing to do with this amendment, which is very important and important. Please don't throw it away. You'll get your turn, but you have to understand that colleagues have to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and talk about the amendment. According to the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20016	Thank you very much. By amendment, but as authorized for this item of the agenda. Thank you, but it's only been an hour since I checked in, and I've already got my word, so congratulations on the efficiency. I thank all the colleagues of the opposition, the minister, some of the authorities who supported this amendment, that Article 3, and therefore it is logical to support this amendment to Article 3a, because if secondary education is mandatory, then, of course, textbooks should...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20017	We apologize to our colleague, Zivkovic, for the amendment to Mr. Saša Radulović's 3rd member.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20018	That's what I'm talking about. I'd like you to meet the text a little bit. So it's a perfectly logical thing to do and I thank everyone again. That debate about whether it's under the Constitution or not, I'd leave it to the Constitutional Court, even if it's what it is now. There was no reason for this to be an explanation why one amendment, one proposal for MPs, a club of independent MPs, and this is a civil platform and a new party, to find out about something good, which we all agree is good, to find a way, to get to this dialogue, and to vote on something that would be useful for children, all of Serbia's children. Of course, this did not happen because the ruling party and how it applied to our amendment, and now to the amendment of counterpart Radulovic, wants to banish the mind, honesty, congratulations from Serbia. It happens all the time. You have as much evidence as you want. Twenty-five, twenty-six thousand people leaving the country annually. Well, they're not just leaving because of the crisis, but because you're making them place for your smugglers, for their con men, for for forgers, for all those who are from the president... (Vladimir Orlic): What is this? [[off microphone]] Alexander Martinovic: What is this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20019	I can't turn on your microphone as long as you use these words you use. It is totally inadmissible to use such terms. Please continue speaking according to this amendment. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20020	I would like to continue in an atmosphere that will resemble Serbia in the 21st century and a debate at the temple of democracy, as this building should be called. Anyone who wants to say something stupid, ugly, disgusting, threatening, there's a street, so that's what you do there. So exorcising the personnel is obvious, there's no doubt about it either. Education must be a place where not only is taught for a degree, but it has to be learned for knowledge, but also for education and for building a system of values, which these young generations should carry through their long lives. And that in this way we are building on Serbia to be an example, a leader in the Balkans, a leader in Europe, a leader in everything. That's why we need to have serious laws on this subject, so we need to have serious people who are implementing these serious laws, which we don't have today. Today we had examples of it. Academic congratulation, it's some next amendment, it has to do with this, it's rejected because it's a synonym for academic integrity. Okay, let's just accept that that's true, though it's not exactly accurate. I'm pleased that at least under a different name through a synonym-accepted proposal that I've been up for a year and a few days, but let's see if it's going to be implemented in practice. Does the rest of the law, does the Law of Higher Education provide conditions for academic honesty, victory, profession, science and honesty over what we have today? There isn't. I was already talking to the minister is too much of a burden to put on your shoulders to place directors everywhere. I see you're setting everything alive. You won't have time for that. I can say he's a good man, but that doesn't necessarily mean he can implement everything in a way that's appropriate. Not to talk about what we had just about the Constitution, and not knowing the Constitution of people who would need to know. I want to tell you one thing, to put your hand on the Constitution and the Gospel can every lunatic and every criminal, and that doesn't mean he'll be fair and he'll respect any regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20021	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. (Alexander Martinovic: What is this? This is a warning. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20022	You're already hearing reactions, Mr. Chairman. This now 107, 108, 109 means the reminder is the minimum minimum that has to happen. What does that look like? If this is not an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, if it is not an insult to the mind, do you have a better example in this whole congregation? What does it look like we use expressions like -- what was it, a lunatic, a criminal, in the context of what's going on here, in the context of the state? In the context of those who represent these people and who are trying to make institutions work, who are chosen by the will of citizens. What's not clear? Is there something not clear to anyone? He who talks about smugglers and con men accuses us and looks us in the face. It's an insult to me, Mr. Chairman. Insulting the dignity of someone who, for example, that Mr. Zoran Zivkovic had just before been directly responsible for the youth leaving, which I remember when I left my friend from the bench because it was wonderful in the country. Then a year later, the guy who was sitting in front of me leaves, and when the school is finished, half the department. I want him to know that we are now to blame for such things, as if it were the first time. There's no replica on the Rules of Procedure, you learn something. Read something if you're capable of letters. There's no one who can tell us here that we're making a country out of which there's intelligence and honesty. So, what's he accusing us of? If you did not respond to the dignity when Radulovic spoke, when he spoke to the fan of Tadic's Jeremic, those who advertised want to transfer to Albin Kurti, if you ignored all of this, and you can't do this before, to accuse us of pushing intelligence and honesty. He directly accuses us of wanting Serbia full of Zoran Zivkovic. He directly accuses us when he says that we want only smugglers and frauds to remain, that we want Serbia full of Zoran Zivkovic. If it's not an insult to each and every one of us here, I haven't heard much of an insult today. Mr. Chairman, you need to give a warning, and whenever you need to take a break, to cool off some hot heads, to remind them of what's going on here, and what this debate should look like if we want something to be, to the pride of the people who are looking at us. If you want him to be in the spirit of smugglers and con men, then let this Zivkovic go to his will, I will never answer again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20023	Comrade Eagle, you're partly right. I've never heard such a dictionary in my life. I guess I grew up in such an environment where I couldn't even hear words like this, but, well, we're different. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20024	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that you have injured Article 104 because you have not responded immediately to the presentation of the previous colleague, when he started to give you guidelines here and very doactically and very authoritatively whether someone should or should not be given the right to replication, or that he said – there is no right to replication, which is a direct pressure on the chairman and I want to take you into protection, because I believe that this is a very indirect behaviour towards you. If you don't have the strength to do it and tell the MPs from the ruling majority not to treat you like that, I will.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20025	Thank you for giving us an order on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. When you're in a position to be chair, maybe in another movie, then you can do it. Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20026	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've received a lot of messages. According to Dragica Vidaković, “My fellow farmer speaks of himself.” (Zoran Krasic: What is this? I respect the right of opposition. Mrs. Radeta, don't throw it away. You respect my rights. Explaining the amendment, my fellow farmer spoke of everything that was missing about him. This is where he talked about the lack of brains. National MP Zoran Zivkovic throws it away. In that sense, I would ask him and I to check together the IQ.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20027	Comrade Zivkovic, I give you a warning about this. Go on, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20028	Yes, together, given that he's belittled, and I admit that here I am the weakest of the two parliamentary groups, here, I agree that we're going for a test run. I think I'm gonna give him a big break, but some results say what he's gonna say, and I'm afraid my fellow farmer's IQ will be less than his shoe size. Then he talked about honesty. I guess that applies to the honesty when he took 525,000 euros from farmers for a non-existent plot in Fruszko Gora, and then talked about honesty. Here, as far as honesty is concerned, I invite him to show his degree once, which no one can find in Nis for 15-20 years, or his colleague Krasic. He was talking about smuggling, and there's some serious charges of chubby smuggling, right down to gun smuggling...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20029	Please return to the subject of the amendment, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20030	So I answer why I don't think there's any fraud in his place. He's talking about the fraud of a man who's been pelcating chickens in the village of Pukovac with a yogurt solution? So much for the quality of that debate. You'll allow me to finally quote what I'm forbidden, and this time, Cicero. Ciceron says: “There is no need to seek discernment from a man who is never sober. ” Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Marinika Tepic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20031	Thank you. Before we continue to work... (Marinika Tepic: I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I do not see that I have been reported. There's a full list. You'll get a chance, you'll sign up. I'll read you a part of the text of this amendment. "Every person has the right to education and education. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal in exercising their right to education and education. Persons with developmental and disability disorders shall have the right to education and education that respects educational and educational needs in the education and education system, with individual and group support in teaching and learning or in a special educational group or school, in accordance with this and a special law. “ Here is how much we respect the rules and how much we respect the core and essence of this amendment to discuss them. I'm setting a five-minute break and we're continuing with the next member for the reason you didn't want to discuss this member. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Take five minutes. The next amendment by the People's MPs of the Dweri should be prepared. Thank you. [[After a break.]] National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević... (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. Radoslav Milojic: What is this? I've decided to take a break... (Radoslav Milojic: It has not been five minutes yet. )......................................................................................................... And we started with a new member, so when we're done... That's right. [[Radoslav Milojic: Five minutes is a break?]] (Radoslav Milojic: Well, it hasn't been five minutes.) )......................................................................................................... Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and... (Saša Radulovic: You cannot start with a new member. Mr. Radulovich, please return to your seat. (Saša Radulovic: I must explain my own amendment. I give you a warning. (Saša Radulovic: You cannot start with a new member. I give you a second warning. ... Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić proposed amendments to Articles 4, 17, 20, 22, 49, 73, 76, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 90, 99, 100, 109, 112, 126, 130, 136, 138, 160, 164, 174, 177, 182, 193, 194, and 195. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want a word after the amendment? (Radoslav Milojic: The Rules of Procedure have priority. I'm running the session, I'm sorry. The word is Mr. Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20033	Dear Serbian citizens, I don't think the solution is that whenever you don't like the opposition's speeches, stop the session and move on, abolishing all democratic rights to the opposition. As for the concrete amendment proposed by the Dveri Parliamentary Group, I think it is of great importance what the current Minister of Education, Mr Sarcevic, has said that what is not in the Constitution cannot be found in these draft laws either. So in the Constitution, Mr. Minister, there's no gender equality, no sexual orientation, and there's nothing this amendment says, and that's a legal representative, who you're introducing into 37 members of this bill. So far, when it comes to those who are in charge of children in this country, either parents or guardians have been treated. You are introducing a certain legal representative, not explaining at all how you legally justify him in the legislative process in Serbia. He is in no way in accordance with other laws, especially the Family Law, which recognizes parents and guardians. So, what do you want to impose on us through a legal counsel? Who's that lawman now? Are you, in fact, preparing the ground to continue promoting homosexuality in Serbia, to introduce gay marriages and the possibility of adopting children from such marriages, so they will be legal advocates of those children? It is clear that the government of Alexander Vukic and the SNS government is the main promoter of the ideology of homosexuality in Serbia and that you are certainly trying to prepare the ground for the next phase – the introduction of gay marriages and the possibility of such marriages adopting children and having legal representation. Or can you explain to us where, Mr. Minister, this legal counsel is coming from?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20034	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Martinovic has the word. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic): We've been standing here for 15 minutes. How can you not be ashamed? Don’t be nervous, we’ll work all day long, everyone will come to talk. (Radoslav Milojic): It really doesn't make sense. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see there's a lot of anxiety in the opposition's ranks, something's hurting them, they're not feeling very well. As for Mr. Bosko Obradovic's presentation, he says the same thing from session to session. Whatever bill of law is on the agenda, SNS and Alexander Vukic are the biggest villains in the world and we introduce, he says, gay marriages. Mr Marinkovic, elections were held in the Federal Republic of Germany yesterday. Angela Merkel's client won. The party supported by Mr. Bosko Obradovic is an alternative for Germany – they are neo-Nazis. Mr. Bosko Obradovic congratulated NJima. What Mr. Bosko Obradovic doesn't know, I don't think he knows, one of the Alternative officials for Germany is a lady named Alice Vejdel, who is a declared lesbian, lives with her wife, so she's with a female and raises two children. Now, these are Mr. Bosko Obradovic's friends. And if he objects to the introduction of gay marriages, Mr. Bosko Obradovic directly advocates the introduction of gay marriages. Mr. Bosko Obradović is directly working on the corruption of our children and our youth. I beg you, Mr. Marinkovic, don't let him do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20036	Thank you. The injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20037	Thank you, Chairman. You have done, in my confidence, several violations of the Rules of Procedure, or Rule 108, because I do not think you care about order in the session of the National Assembly and Article 27, which says you should take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. First of all, you have been taking a break, although you have been pretending after seeing my request for advertising of the Rules of Procedure and have not given me the word immediately after the direct overrun, or violation of the Rules of Procedure, on your part, which I consider to be the first measure you have introduced by setting a break, as well as the previous time. So by setting a break, you deny the Members of the People to speak, instead of making sure they speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20038	Dear fellow Members, I do not deny the right to speak to the MPs, but to earn and completely incomprehensible, I cannot understand anything. Everyone has the right to speak. The second time you point to this, you just end up – what injury, which member is injured? You said 108. In what way, explain, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20039	First, please don't interrupt me, so you can hold out for two minutes. I will also endure as long as it takes your explanation. Please don't interrupt me anymore. Every time you interrupted me today. That doesn't make any sense. I'm just trying to explain that you've injured Article 27 and Article 108, so taking care of the order, which I don't think you're fulfilling or executing properly and applying the Rules of Procedure. So you deny the MPs the right to speak. You interrupt me every time. As the second MP speaks, you give a warning to the third People's MP, without any explanation why this is happening. While we are very loud about the word and we are in the system, you are not giving us the right, which is the right to go ahead, to advertise the Rules of Procedure, but to give it to other colleagues who have applied after us, and by looking at it absolutely do not bother to consider the whole room. Pretend you can't see us and pretend you can't hear us. I'm asking you not to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20040	Thank you. You should know what an article means. 108th and 109ths after all this time in parliament. (Marinika Tepic: I'm looking for your explanation. ) Would you like the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of voting for damage to the Rules of Procedure? (Marinika Tepic: I'm looking for your explanation. Yes, I explained. Look at the Rules of Procedure, there's, there's an article. 108th and 109ths of what they mean. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20041	Mr. Marinkovic, I'm really not short enough for you not to see me. Mr. Djurisic and my colleague Tepic and I have been standing and holding the Rules of Procedure for 15 minutes. We're in pain of holding the Rules of Procedure and you're pretending not to see us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20042	I'm sorry, I'm sorry for the pain of your hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20043	Don't interrupt me, please let me finish. This is not an argument outside the store where people drink beer when they stop by, this is the National Assembly. Please respect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20044	Can you tell a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20045	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20046	I have to interrupt you if you don't tell the member I hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20047	I can tell a member in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20048	You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20049	Can you tell me where it says it has to start?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20050	Please state a member if you want to speak further.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20051	I'm advertising Article 107. - dignity. Mr. Martinovic just before his colleagues from the opposition benches said he was an asshole. He's injured dignity, number one. Under number two, you hurt your dignity by reading the amendment. All MPs know how to read. If you've read the SNS MPs, you've also violated the Parliament's dignity. There's no need to do that. I'm asking you to bring this debate back to the way it deserves. There's no need to do that. Don't let me tell you this for myself, because of your party, I tell you because of the dignity of the Assembly, that you are being harassed by a Martinovic and that you are being harassed by Mrs Gojkovic from your post and that they are ordering you to do what you are going to do. You're chairing the assembly at the moment. Forget them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20052	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Radoslav Milojic: Yes. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20053	Thank you. Several members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured: 105, 106, 107, but also 108 and 109 of the previous several speakers, specifically from the previous speaker. I, the chairman, risking getting a warning from you, and ready for such a sacrifice, must ask you - how long will you allow the worst among us here to live above the National Assembly? One of the worst things he could do in the entire term was insult, and today he did it, calling us lunatics, criminals, smugglers, etc., and the other worst, because for his term, while he was president of the municipality, the only thing he could do was ruin the municipality and steal it for three billion dinars. Let me ask you, how long will you allow such harassment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20054	Thank you. I can understand you and, of course, I'm trying, along with the President of Parliament, to try to convince the MPs that such terms are not used. Of course, it's beneath every honour, beneath every level of debate, but as you know for yourself, in accordance with the Constitution, anyone can become a MP to be elected, and we cannot influence home education and education. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20055	Chairman, I wanted to report by one member, but it's been a long time and now I'm going to talk about Article 103 of Section 3 you've hurt. I will read it – the President of the National Assembly gives a word to the MP who points to a violation of the position of the 1st member immediately following the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. So I'm the president of an MP group, kid, but according to our Rules of Procedure, I'm the president. That's why I had the right to speak before two colleagues who spoke here before me. Let's say we all called at the same time, and we didn't, but I called before they did. So, the Rules of Procedure does not give you the right to give you a word in a party or not to know what kind of attitude, sympathy, or not to know what, but only in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. If the Rules of Procedure says that the MP who reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure has the right to receive the word immediately and that in that case the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage, you had to give me the word half an hour ago before you set the last break. My reason for reporting back then was that you read an amendment here, I suppose, in order for you to bring this debate to a normal pace, which I support. I ask you now to read every amendment so that the MPs know what the debate is and so that they know the citizens. The citizens here can hear the article that and that one, he suggested the amendment that and that one, and they don't know what we're talking about here. From these discussions that were here, it was very difficult for them to understand. I support what you read. I ask you to read each of the 1,234 amendments, as submitted to these two laws, so that we know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20056	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. I didn't notice you, nor were you on the list. Now we will give the word to Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who will speak right after the amendment. Serbian citizens will be able to see, to hear... (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. You'll get a replica. The word is Maja Gojkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20057	I'm sorry to say one sentence first. Only you have the right to determine when to give and in what case the replica. So, on the outcry of nothing and who is not clear, beautiful at Gordana Komić, he takes a stenogram and looks at how she has done it very elegantly and strictly without looking at those who were yelling at the replica. And she's my role model. It was just an introduction and we could really get back to the debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20058	We're on our way back now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20059	I'm sorry, don't get in my word. Either you can make order or you can't? Let's take a break. ... on the draft law on the basis of the education and education system. It's a very important topic that it takes us a few days to discuss, or amendments, what they are, but they are amendments, which someone is trying to fix the essence of this law. So, from the replicas, from the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, children and people who work in the education system have absolutely nothing. That's why I'm asking you to go back to the main debate. We have 2,000 amendments and each amendment brings something positive or negative. In this case, the applicant, it seems to me, of this cacophony, it is impossible to follow the session, Parliament group Dveri, Bosko Obradovic tried to explain this amendment and this very way and the explanation given by every man in this country should be assured of the well-meaning of the submission of this amendment. So if they just look to ask that the words "other legal representative" change to the word "parent", if I'm not wrong about being on that amendment, help me, Minister, it means nothing to the citizens, as a legal guardian, etc. When I heard it as a letter, which does not escape from belonging to the European People's Party and that my definitions are certainly not extremely left-wing, but when I heard his explanation, of course I cannot accept the amendment. First, what's said in this home is certainly a hate speech. It was certainly a hate speech, and it cannot be escaped. So even the far right here must refrain from speaking hate. The explanation was that the SNS, as the party at the heart of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and which allows its majority here to survive with Ana Brnabic, promote homosexuality and gay marriages and promote the adoption of children in gay marriages. Since I've been put on a pillar of shame today by respected opposition colleagues that I don't know the Constitution, that I don't know what's forbidden by that Constitution, even though they didn't understand what they're talking about, the bans, this or that... (Radoslav Milojic: Is this an amendment? Yes, I'm talking about an amendment, distinguished colleagues. So, I certainly expected, since the MPs on your left most of them declare themselves to be left-wing individuals, here Zivkovic says that it is not left-wing, that they are against all discrimination, that they are for absolute freedoms in our society, regardless of what it means, they have all sat still and no one has reported except for the breach of the Rules of Procedure sent to you, to protest what MP Bosko Obradovic said, explaining this amendment. So, the SNS certainly does not promote some of the values that our voters are against, but the Constitution directs us to certain things, that all of us in this society are equal and that someone who belongs to the European People's Party should warn you that all of us in this society are equal, then at least what I expect is, first, to be against this amendment, not because these are now ours, these are not ours, but you have to prove your political orientation by being against such an amendment, and second, condemning this hate speech. What does it mean to promote gay marriages in our society? What does it mean to promote the adoption of children in gay marriages in our society? What does adoption of children mean? To show me in this law where it is. The applicant for the amendment has abused the institution of submitting amendments just to speak the ultimate right-wing determinations of his party and perhaps for someone who voted for him, although I, a year and something, am not sure whether they crossed the censorship or did not cross over. I'm not sure yet, but the real explanation of the amendment is scandalous. The Serbian Progressive Party and all those parties that form and support the ruling majority and cannot support this kind of hate speech and cannot support a policy that is being promoted in this parliament, and this is how Bosko Obradovic explained it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20060	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20061	Thank you, Chairman. I understand that the ruling majority is always upset when we bring them into a direct relationship with the promotion of homosexuality in Serbia, because the promotion of homosexuality in Serbia was never at that level as during the rule of Alexander Vukic and SNS. So it's a gay friendly government, it's a gay friendly president, you have the first gay minister, you have a gay prime minister, you make gay parades twice a year in Belgrade, and now you spread them across Serbia. The rights of homosexuals have never flourished as they did in the days of Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Of course, you also support Angela Merkel, for she has already adopted the possibility of homosexual marriages and adoption by homosexual couples. Of course you're in that trend European, that you're the gay friend of politics, that you're the one, I don't know what our people would call it, I risk getting a warning... So what's the point of the story is – the legal representative is being introduced here as an absolutely non-existent category. Besides parents and guardians, you want to expand that possibility of someone else being a legal representative, guardian of children. Who? Well, of course, homosexual married couples that you will allow to adopt children, by order of Angela Merkel and your Western mentors who have instructed you to organize gay parades, and you, instead of one, are now organizing two, to show yourself more advanced than even in the West. That's SNS and Alexander Vukitch. So, you serve the West twice as much as they ask you to serve them, to make sure you get down to it, to make you look like Westerners bigger than Westerners. That's what we're pointing at here. Why does Mr. Minister keep his mouth shut? Why not explain who the legal representative is, and are these homosexual couples?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20062	Thank you. Right on the line, Maja Gojkovic. Sign up, please, one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20063	I'm sorry, MP, I won't use the replica. I really don't want to use the replica, I want to talk about the amendment, but it's just impossible when you listen... (DS MEETING INDISTINCTLY) I hear voices. ... When you listen to the Proposer, the Proposer speaks of everything except his fears and doubts, which is really not in the domain of the debate in parliament anymore. He sees what's not in the law. Now that I'm allowed, as someone from the European People's Party and who certainly doesn't want to promote anything they don't want to promote Serbian citizens, or what we're going back to the Constitution, which we've been listening to all afternoon, doesn't talk about, is the only thing I can suspect, but I certainly won't support this amendment, because this amendment has nothing to do with the bill at all, nor with those members, that in 2014, the promoter who had posters in his campaign saying, "That men" actually wanted us to say something else here, his fears and his doubts about what the law might have in some of his subconscious that it really works. To tell you the truth, as an ordinary MP, since the MPs here don't know what the Rules of Procedure means and what it means to sit in the bench, when I sit in the bench I'm not the chairman, I'm not the president. As an ordinary MP, as a member of the SNS, I can only express my doubts about his sexual orientation, because for days he's only been talking about homosexualism, about gay marriages, about the possibility of gay marriages adopting children, and now he's starting to show us through the explanation of his amendments. Otherwise, there is no need for a man to make nice posters with names and slogans "Yes Men". What does that mean, I don't understand it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20064	Thank you. Faith of Radeta, come in. (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. First the Belief of Radet and then.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20065	First, several times we've turned our attention to the government's MPs that when the opposition speaks, today it's been repeated all day, to leave out the SRS, when you're talking about the opposition at all. We are the only real opposition to the government and we do not want to be classified in this opposition to the new DOS. We've really asked you nicely. Think about us whatever you want, talk about us whatever you want, but you can't talk about the Ljotics and put SRS MPs there. You can't talk like you just did, when it comes to Dusan Pavlovic and his idea of free and compulsory secondary education. You know we Serbian radicals advocate enrolment in colleges without a admission exam. That's what we've told everyone. This Dusan Pavlovic, vice president of the DJ, went public three days ago with his column on his blog, where he said that in Serbia, 35% of children can pass an entrance exam because they are children of wealthy parents, so rich parents, as he said, can create working habits for their children and they can encourage them to learn, and he says – children from lower classes don't study, their parents don't create working habits for them to learn, their parents don't have the money to pay them, and essentially he claimed that everyone pays higher education and in a truly scandalous way where he separated the rich and the poor and imagine what Dusan Pavlovic and DJ thinks. Whoever's rich is also smart, who's poor isn't. It won't be like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20066	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20067	Let me just say one explanation, and it's about school practice. Lawyers working on lawmaking, and that's what the people and judges of the Cassation Court have proposed to us this formulation legal counsel. She's wider than parents and guardians, because simply, if there's a divorce in the family, one of the parents becomes legal counsel and the other doesn't. The school and how it has to keep an eye on who has a restraining order or if it's abuse, mostly more often women, so that's the reason. There's a death in both parents' cases. At that time, the foster family, as well as some of the family members, may become legal advocates. I don't see anything wrong with that term. It is much wider, and it certainly contains both parents and guardians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20068	Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20069	So after half an hour, I got the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. The 107th is a dignity, so I'd like all the injuries that happened in the last 30 minutes... (Alexander Martinovic: Can't after half an hour Rules of Procedure. ) Here, and now Mr. Martinovic is obstructing the work of the Assembly, and you are not reminding him, so this is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20070	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20071	Article 107. So it is very important that if you want to communicate in a decent way in this House, you should give someone the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, if someone is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see where we're going to rush those two minutes, if we just want to court this debate? I think this debate is rude. Indecent for the simple reason that, on several occasions, the President of the Assembly warned Gordana Komic, who was not in the O.R. and her way of holding the session from 2008 to 2012, when the lady was a member of the G17 Plus. She wasn't even in this room. After that, she didn't go over the censorship in the New Sad elections...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20072	Wait, buddy, I'm sorry, I don't understand, how did that member get violated and dignity? Can't the name of the People's Parliament be mentioned here? Please don't. Let's move on. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20073	Dear Chairman, I thought we were discussing the amendment, but if you've given me any damage to the Rules of Procedure, I'll use that right. Article 107 speaks of due respect... (Bosko Obradovic: That was now. ) It wasn't now, it was 103 or whatever Mr. Balsa Bozovic remembered to say. He certainly has a duty to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, even when it seeks the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I do not know the President-in-Office, where there is a provision in the Rules of Procedure that there is no mention of the work of an MP who is not currently in the O.R. It is best that we say nothing as MPs and not to mention any politician who is in the O.R., out of the O.R., in the country, just because we are calling for example the practice of how Gordana Comic did when she was chairman. At a time when Gordana Comic was chairman, there were not a third of the parliament here, because she threw them all out, and that is one historical fact and it is not a big deal. I do not apply such measures, but I have the right to show in my speech that Gordana Komic has done well, because she strictly respected the Rules of Procedure and did not allow the opposition to violate the Rules of Procedure either. I don't know why it bothers Balshi Bozovic, I really don't mind. To be clear, the party I've been to, yes, I haven't, that's what voters are talking about, certainly not Balsa Bozovic. But I only ask him, the next time he speaks, to just turn around, to turn around the honourable MPs he supports, or they support him, and to take out the history of belonging to all the political parties who belong and to finish, and to start with Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, to start with the MPs who made their parliamentary group, to start from the back benches, to look at the parliamentary group sitting in front of the Dvori, etc., and so closer, and to finish once with it. Yeah, I've been in 502, thinking about 505, you can't do anything to me, but turn around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20074	Thank you. Because we don't have order in the O.R. right now, I'm gonna set a five-minute break, so we're gonna keep working on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20075	Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20076	Thank you. In order to save time, given that we've missed a lot, I won't explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20077	Thank you. The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20078	I'm giving up my explanation for saving time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20079	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Žigmanov. He's not here. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. He's not here. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20080	President-in-Office, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment in order to facilitate children who have developmental disorders and who have some serious illness, that even after 17 years, perhaps after 19 years with your permission, they go to first grade high school. I explained this by having it as a question of students already recognised by the existing law, such as those who were late involved in the educational process. It is about students with developmental disorders, as their professional education must take place continuously and in the full range of classes, and a minimum third of students who attend schools for students with developmental disorders when enrolled in high school are more than 17 years old. We are witnessing that numerous and rare diseases, numerous oncology processes take a considerable amount of time and that children are practically disabling to enroll, i.e. to learn and go to high school afterwards. That's why the proposal for this amendment is that children can also be 17 years old, in some cases at 19 years of age, with your permission to enroll in the first grade of high school. It is a desire to allow children to continue their education after coping with a severe illness, because as a doctor and as a teacher, I can tell you that teaching is a good kind of therapy of these conditions and that it is difficult when someone gets kicked out of the education process, out of the learning process. That's why my amendment was just directed to allow them to continue enrolment in high school, first grade high school, with certainly medical documentation, with reasons for professional services and with your consent. A few weeks ago, I officially sent you a memo for a guy from Nis, I won't mention his name, but the public is already familiar with his name and his diagnosis. Fortunately, it all ended well. I don't know if you acted on my memo that I sent to you, but it ended well, the boy enrolled in the first grade of high school. I thank you, if we can help one family, one boy with autism. This proposal is good and I would like it if there was a possibility that this amendment could be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20081	Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and together Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20082	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, you are probably, and I want to believe it, aware that you bear great responsibility and you bear great responsibility in society, since you run this system of education which I think is one of the cornerstones for the overall development of our country, along with me, health and culture, because only a healthy, educated and cultural man, individual and community can be the basis of the overall economic development of our country. Will this law, the system law on the foundations of the education and education system, achieve this, we will see in the time to come. Or you have passed this law as a draft law in the Assembly only to bring legislation in line with EU legislation. According to the number of amendments that have arrived on this bill, I tend to believe that this law will not meet your expectations or ours. Let me now return to one amendment, to article 4, which was filed by the MPs of the DS. This member regulates the right to education free of charge, so the member, i.e. in attitude 6, says – a person who has acquired secondary education, who wants to requalified or qualified, acquires specialist or master's education, pays tuition. We've only submitted the amendment here if that person is employed. We have been talking years ago about our education system not being adapted to labour market requirements. Many of the occupations with which our students come out of primary and secondary education are outdated and many of our children who finish secondary education are long on unemployment records and often need to requalified and qualified. So, if they're unemployed and they wait for a job for a long time, it's time for such people to be overqualified or schooled. Of course, those who work are probably motivated to re-qualify themselves to some better paid job, and should be left with the obligation to pay tuition. Article 8 of this amendment provides that the level of tuition shall be determined by the minister, of course according to the types of education and education, with persons, i.e. persons, i.e. students over the age of 17 who find themselves in a difficult material or social situation, the bill states - they can be freed from tuition payments. We have responded with the amendment to be freed under mandatory means to be freed and persons in a difficult social and material situation. Believe me, as someone who works in social services, or at the Centre for Social Work, you have a lot of people who are from these difficult social environments, especially if it's a Roma population, who are over 17 years old, who don't have adequate education. We all try to get them into the system of work, especially in the education system, but they don't have the resources. I'd like to ask you to make it mandatory for such faces. Very often we are here now, many MPs have spoken of what is free and what is it that you as a ministry have to accept, so we have long had the right to free textbooks here. Not only should it be free, and whether you should bear it, because you are a large part of those obligations that carry the epithet for free transferred to local self-government. Not all local self-government has paid attention to the education system. Fortunately, I come from a local self-government, it's a municipality of Svilajnac, which is a large resource for the development of school education. Starting with that everything, absolutely everything, and urban and rural schools, and primary and secondary schools are complete reconstruction, equipped with modern equipment and can be measured with secondary and primary schools in the world and in Europe. We also set out, it is our turn to simply mention this because of many local self-governments that do not have the opportunity and do not pay attention to the education system - free transportation for high school students, especially if they are from social environments, free student kitchens for primary school students, of course with a reference to those students from socially endangered environments. We give 5,000 dinars a year at the beginning of the school year for school supplies and equipment for preschool children and children in primary education. So these are all these benefits that our local self-government can make out of its budget, but they're just slow things down. Many local self-governments cannot single out, and then many of our children, as well as teachers, are faced with a lack of money. So I ask you to take a good look at it when a member gets there which is financed from the budget of local self-government or the Republic budget, to pay attention to our amendments where we have responded to those members as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20083	Thank you. The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20084	I'm going to talk about the amendment I submitted to Article 4, which speaks of the right to free education. In addition, it is envisaged that those who have acquired secondary education, who want to requalify or qualify, acquire a specialist or master's education, pay tuition. We believe that the education system should serve Serbian citizens to teach them, educate them, so that certain skills and skills can be acquired through the education system so that they can use these skills tomorrow for their lives, that they can find employment and be useful citizens of the Serbian state. Article 3 provides that both non-citizens and non-citizens have the exact same rights as citizens who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia for education and education. So, they too are subject to the category of persons who have the right to free education, so it is our intervention that those of our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who want to overqualify themselves and acquire some new education, because with what they have completed, and who are more than 17 years old, they cannot find adequate employment and, of course, provide for themselves and their family the existence, that the education system of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry, or the state, allows them to acquire these new requalifications and qualifications, that new knowledge that will benefit them tomorrow to find a job, to be free of charge. We do not feel that discrimination should be made in this sense, especially toward those persons who are in poor physical condition. So, to be required to release scholarships if they want to overqualified or qualified.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20085	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure, President!) ) Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20086	Thank you. I am advocating Article 103, Madam President, who says this: “The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure and done at the session of the National Assembly. ” Fifteen minutes now I'm looking for a word. I'm not going to say please, because it's your responsibility and there's nothing here for an MP to ask for. On the other hand, the same Article 103 states: “The MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what this injury is, with which he can speak for the longest two minutes. ” Where does it say here that at the beginning of his presentation, the MP says which member is injured? It can be said in the end. Why don't you allow members of the DS and the entire opposition first of all to hurt the Rules of Procedure? You're doing it very briefly, but your predecessor here, who you left to replace you, has been doing it all day. After 15 to 20 minutes here and fellow Djurisic and other MPs and I are looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I really don't understand whether those two minutes, and they seemed to be wrong, would take away someone so valuable. There's no need to demonstrate force, there's really no need. I'm not saying this personally to you right now, I'm telling the representatives of the SNS authorities, because in January and February 2000, someone demonstrated force, so after six or seven months, we know what happened. There's no need for these events at the session. I'm telling you one more time, I'm not saying this personally to you right now, but you are now in the last 15 minutes presidencies, but you are really seeing people who are changing you, especially with SNS MPs who here are making the most of the accusations on our account.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20087	Thank you. Which member did I hurt exactly? (Radoslav Milojic: Article 103) All of it? (Radoslav Milojičić: Final position. All right, are we going to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Now, if I were malicious, I would say that they were suggesting and throwing others to you, so they'd have to leave you alone, but you can do it yourself. Thank you. We'll vote on that. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20088	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ministers, the Social Democratic Party has submitted an amendment aimed at providing for certain categories of free secondary schooling, i.e. qualifications and retraining for those who want it. So, we have proposed this amendment not to pay tuition for students who are enrolled in further education, or who are preparing to pass the prom exam, then persons who are overqualified and qualified for health reasons and those who have previously stopped working relationships, i.e. who have become a technological surplus. You explained to us when you refused this amendment – it is contrary to our concept, i.e. the concept of the Ministry of Free Education. So, Minister, I ask you to reconsider, and I call on the MPs if the minister will not accept this amendment, to enable those who have completed three classes of high school, to pass the prom exam, to be able to do it for free, to enable those who are overqualified, so people who have lost their jobs, and they have lost their jobs because they do not have enough qualifications, which go to the bureau where they have, I must say, a minimum, ridiculous fee in six or nine months. They don't have the money to pay for schooling to get overqualified. What are we gonna do with these people? You lose your job because you don't have enough knowledge, you want to gain new knowledge, but you don't have the money to pay. Please allow the people who have become technological surpluses in this country to overqualified themselves for free. You said in the last and last position of this member that the ministry that determines the level of tuition in this case, that the ministry will decide who will be excluded so it will give him free schooling. The ministry will decide on certain social threats that they can. We don't want the ministry arbitration from case to case. We want to have a clear standard that is the one that can get free education, the rest of us can't get free education. Don't give yourself discretionary rights, because we doubt, of course, that those who can get free education will be members of the SNS. The same thing we talked about for the directors that you will choose and set without clear criteria. So, I ask you to adopt this amendment and allow people who can't pay, and they want to gain new knowledge, so they can get a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20089	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20090	Thank you. Since the time of the authorised representative, Madam President. I would like to join this request and amendment and we will definitely support it in the voting day, and you too, Mr. Sarcevic, think about it. You've made so much of your commitment to this new law that I don't know how you're going to achieve everything you've assigned to yourself. We now see that at the request of the Committee president, otherwise the owner and president and some instance, at a private university, which for ten years cannot be accredited, the Committee has managed to assign you more competences, which are likely to go into favour of obtaining an accreditation that ten years can't be acquired. That's what we'll talk about when there's the Higher Education Act. You now, among all the new powers that you attribute to yourself, are now allowing yourself to be some kind of merciful instance that will determine who in Serbia has the right to lose a job, to overqualified for free, and who has to pay for it in order to gain new knowledge and possibly get a job. Mr. Charcevic, it's a lot. It's a lot to blame yourself for that, too. Make a system that can work without it being you who share functions, positions, mercy, justice, finance and chances in life. Don't do that, Mr. Sarcevic, because you need to create a system that will survive after you. I hope you leave very soon and certainly no one should belong to such a level of jurisdiction. Don't be the ones who share mercy and decide life's chances. Whether you do it in the most honest way possible or you do it by choosing members of the SNS, who, when they lose their jobs, do not have to pay membership fees, does not belong to a single minister of such jurisdiction. I said already, we wrote the amendments that Dositej Obradović, Mr. Sarčević, would be a great deal to you, and don't mind not even offering Dosite Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20091	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20092	Whether I am or not, don't judge it, it's not yours. As far as this law is concerned, it was the same in this old law. So nothing's changed. First that. It's not the minister. It's the ministry. There's not one way. There's a lot of sublegal acts. There's a state interest in what's going to pay for retraining, whether someone's working or not. So it's demagogy now. On the third hand, I specifically negotiate with people in the labour market who offer us seven billion dinars for requalifications that are free, and they have those resources. We can't put that into our law, and that's what our teachers suggest to do to improve their status. So that's how he works and cares, but this hasn't been changed by the old law, we just haven't had a better solution. I don't see anyone suggesting better, except, let's promise everything for free. There are categories that work and don't work. Anyone that I won't do it directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20093	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20094	It's not a problem that requalifications should be free, the problem is that you decide for whom they will be free and for whom they will not. If you don't see it as a problem, then I don't know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20095	The word is Nenada Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20096	Minister, just because there was something in the 2009 law doesn't mean it was good. So this solution that we have proposed is a good solution. Here, you've got a proposal. Those who have been declared a technological surplus, therefore, are people who have lost their jobs, have no economic opportunities to pay for requalification. Why can't the state let them? It's cheaper for the state to overqualified them for free and get a job than to become social cases. Cheaper and more useful. The same goes for the one who graduated from three grades in high school. Why don't we give him a chance to pass the prom free? There's no reason for that. He shows a relationship both to knowledge and to the state and shows a desire to educate, to qualify so that he can find a job to earn. You're making it impossible for him. So there's no free schooling here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20097	The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20098	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm moved that the people who fired 400,000 people who were qualified for their jobs, whose predatory privatisation took their jobs, are now taking care of their retraining. And they argue who is the organ that will allow them to go to free school. Someone has to, not everyone can come to the Assembly. It is natural for the executive authority to be the one, and within the executive authority is the Ministry of Education, which will decide who really has no conditions to be educated and overqualified, that it does not happen to us as at the Bureau of Labour to have people in the BMW coming to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20099	Thank you. Representatives Nenada Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20100	Thank you. I refer to the final position of this member, which is the attitude of the 9th parent, i.e. the second legal representative of the child and the student, can be defined to establish the basics of education and education at home, while providing the costs of education and education. My proposal was to delete this attitude, because nowhere further in the bill's follow-up was more clearly defined how this education takes place at home, under what conditions, how much it costs and what it looks like in practice. Chuck, it doesn't even stand here that you're going to bring closer instructions on the possibility of schooling from home. I'm afraid we can get into a situation where there are various abuses. I mean, and correct me, I'd like to hear your opinion, Minister, if this wasn't that schooling kid in the home class when she's sick. I think there's something else to think about here, but it's very dangerous that it's not worked out, and I think you should respect the amendment to erase this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20101	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20102	I think it would be a step forward to work this out, if that's okay with you. So we have a few hundred sublegal acts behind these laws, and you know that we must very quickly comply with these special laws on pre-school, primary, secondary and so forth when this roof ends.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20103	Parliamentarians Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20104	Thank you. Here, since I never got a single right to a line, and I've appeared several times, the debate on my first amendment lasted all morning, I have to say now, given the salvo of various accusations that I'm not going to enter into our account at all and my account in particular, as far as this amendment is concerned, that at the end of my mind, given that I've been honored that I wrote this amendment that it's mandatory to introduce secondary education in order to attack the SNS. As a professor who worked in high school for 15 years, it wasn't the SNS when I suggested it, it was something else, but I guess you can't figure it out anyway. So, this amendment to Article 4, we have proposed to read -- the state provides free textbooks for all compulsory levels of education. In view of the previous amendment that I have proposed, which is to be both basic and secondary education necessarily, there should also be free textbooks for each other, as well as everything else. We believe that it is not inconclusive at all, because it would be just a fraction of the resources used and spent for other purposes that are not so important to this society as education of children. In addition, the Convention on the Rights of the Child guarantees children the right to free education, and that includes these obligations of the State, and that is something that is neither inconclusive nor rare in the world at all, because at present, even though it is said, even basic education is free, of course, that, de facto, in Serbia is not free, because we all know how much it costs parents, so we have proposed that it be really free, and that is both basic and secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20105	The amendment, added after Article 4a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20106	Thank you. So again, the amendment is that education is the right of a child, every child that is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and that all textbooks and all other resources they need for a successful education should be obtained from their children. The minister talked about it a little bit. He spoke to some of the following laws that would edit this matter. This is, one amendment like this is the matter of this law. Since these are the basics of education, then there should be some basics that then oblige all the following laws to go in that direction. To remind me, it is clear in the explanation -- that the state of Serbia would obtain all textbooks, for all children of primary schools, and all textbooks for all children of secondary schools, that this is about 0.2-3% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, that this is half the amount that ER Serbia receives in the name of subsidies. That it is 2.3% of the amount given by the Republic of Serbia for all. So this is possible to pay. Indeed, any argument that says, there was a Government before and before them and they did not bring such an important provision, us from "Enough It Was" it really doesn't interest. What was before and why this was not done before, the question is why not work today, five years ago, but such a simple provision that would solve a large number of problems for all parents in Serbia. The load to get the textbooks is huge. For the average household income of 57,000 dinars, pay a set of textbooks between 10,000 and 17,000 dinars, so if you have another, third child, the costs are huge. The budget of the Republic of Serbia can wear this and we need to do this. Also, we suggested that transport be paid for everything. To remind you, all our children in the diaspora, in the world's most capitalist countries, America, Canada, EU countries, get free textbooks and get paid transportation. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20107	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20108	I've said several times today and last week that intensively to the 2018 budget, we're sure to move a lot of things for the better, compared to this year, which was very solid. So 86,000 students got free textbooks, founders and 45,000 last year, and that's about a hundred and thirty-something thousand, slightly more than 20%. We'll see each other very soon, in this home where we'll talk about amending the law and supplementing the Law on textbooks, with the introduction of digital textbooks, with the determination of minor rebates and a series of other things, the determination of mandatory packages, and we'll cut your figure, certainly. There's another problem, inheriting textbooks. If we're talking about all categories and educational teaching, in developed countries of the world, children can't scribble, make ears, have to go back to the library, and that's a pedagogical measure. That should have been done before, and it would have been, it wasn't that much money given. I said last week, and that's that certain schools order independently expensive packages that have a lot more, and they don't need kids to wear kids right away, they blame the spine, and that's for personal business. Since the school boards haven't seen it, I've seen it. That's what I'm gonna do. On the other hand, we put some of the money in the school libraries last year, and this year we're going to, and it hasn't been done in 25 years, just to get the libraries to provide that extra literature and that the kids don't pull and pay too much. We have prepared the ground for everything you say, and I will personally deal with Minister Ruzic, what it looks like with local self-government who pays for transportation and who doesn't pay and how that structure stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20109	By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20110	Thank you Minister, that's very nice, but we have a chance to do it now. The words are cheap, and what you're going to do is you're going to think and look and analyze, really doesn't change anything that we can do today, and I repeat, this is 0.2-3% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's true, and you're right. We took these numbers at the current price of the textbook. Practically, parents in Serbia are being robbed. That's because our legal regulations are bad. A system like this is allowed where we invented it, amazingly, in years until now that it's a textbook market, so that it needs a game, and it's actually breaking over the parents' pockets. This is a simple provision that hits the ground and is in the clear law and solves this issue. As for transportation, let me tell you, I can't have local self-government wearing it. In Belgrade, they might, but they're not even there. Imagine some rural municipalities where there are remote villages, it would cost a lot, local self-government can't handle it. Let me remind you, once again, both America and Canada, EU countries have paid for all these and textbooks, and notebooks and no one goes to the store, so they get them for free, but take the child to school and get textbooks there. You're right about what you said, textbooks have to be kept, because it's an inheritance, but those who damage textbooks and in those countries have to pay them. Then you have that sanction, and people will either keep it, or if they don't keep it, then they're theirs, so they'll have to pay at the end of the year. Regardless of all this, I repeat again, there is no reason why today we would not accept the amendment that lays down these rules, and not only free transportation, free textbooks for all primary and secondary school children and it is good that there are 85,000 and something for high school, but it is necessary for 560,000 pupils in primary schools and 260,000 high school students. You know, in Serbia, all households barely make ends meet. This is one small cost, half of the ER Serbia subsidy is the cost of getting children textbooks. In Belgrade, for example, to get your children textbooks in high school, that's about 3,000,000 euros and that's the price of a mast. Then the price for all high school textbooks is about 2,000 euros, and that's your price of the fountain. I guess we care more about children and textbooks than masts and fountains. So, to break up with stories, stories are cheap, to move to action, a simple member who sets standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20111	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20112	I thank the chairman. I answered the amendment, but after a detailed explanation of the minister, I, in another professional sense, wouldn't have anything to add. Nevertheless, I felt the need to point one thing to the citizens of Serbia, which is that I have been listing these amendments that we have received in the material, and I have noticed the repetition of the same amendment that has been submitted to several members of this law. So you suggest adding this article as 4a and then going on, 5a, 6a, and then reading the amendments and coming up with a proposal for Article 19, for Article 30, and then you see that the same amendment repeats itself multiple times to different members of the law. It's amazing that every member where the same amendment is proposed, and imagine what that law would look like if we adopted all those amendments. It is precisely because of citizens who do not have these materials, which we have ahead of us, that I say, because they will probably have the opportunity to listen to the most different explanations of a copy of the half-breed that has been made, not for reasons that the opposition in a concrete case would be constructive, but for the time gained on the basis of the amendment to be used for political, personal or any other promotion. I think it is wrong for other MPs in the National Assembly and not for the citizens of Serbia. I will no longer report to this amendment, but I note that I will not support them in the voting day of any member of the law that they have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20113	By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20114	It's interesting that a colleague has read the amendments a little bit, and she would see that two members of the ruling majority have submitted the same amendment to each member, so talk about the opposition doing one thing, and forget that twice as much is doing the position, is the other. The reason why we're doing this is because this is an extremely important member, a key member of the law where we need to establish some basics and foundations to fund education. So to determine that all children in Serbia get free textbooks, both in primary and secondary schools, that all children have free transportation, and also some quality-related things. For example, in one attitude we have determined that primary and secondary schools can have a maximum of 20 students, that groups led by educators in preschool institutions can have up to 15 children. That's where we go to the quality of education. These are important things. Since we don't have a fundamental discussion, since this is all in one debate, then we have to do this in a way that we have to express what might be done. Enough words, let's cut to the chase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20115	National MP Vladimir Orlic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20116	By amendment, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge that it be not accepted. Let me tell you right now, ladies and gentlemen, and to you, Mr. Minister, I think we are terribly wrong to even discuss this topic and the subject of these and these proposals. Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic was absolutely right with her note. We have here on every member of the law received one and the same text, the one we're hearing about. Now I'd like to know alive if we're going to hear the same story today for the fourth or fifth time, and it's probably going to be a full 200 times? What did we get this for? So because someone in this way wanted to give himself space to talk. As much as he really means it, I guess it's more than clear. I think we're wrong because we're even discussing this here. Indeed, what would the law be like if something like this could be adopted? Of course he can't, that's the point, just because, as the promoter said, the words are cheap. We don't need to deal with his cheap attempts to use cheap words every time over and over for two minutes. How realistic is that and how honest is that? Look at the contents. Can a thing like this be solved with one amendment? Of course he can't. Where's the calculations? Where, for example, is an analysis of how many people don't go to primary or secondary school because they can't pay for textbooks? Where are the numbers? Where are the numbers of how many are socially endangered among them, and where is the category “just, I don’t want”? Where are the numbers on how many socially endangered are already covered by textbook programs? There's nothing out there. There's a flat rate where someone who suggests they buy each computer forgot to include that computer price. Total nonsense. We've got copy-pass mistakes. So, not only logical and meaningful, but also grammatical from a member to a member of the law because someone decided to talk here how words are at least cheap. Well, we see just on this man's case and more than fine. How serious it is to be clear when two things clear. First of all, whether it's for the total free of all costs, and at the same time it's for an increase in tuition, which his vice president told him, which is what Serbia is talking about these days, because he wants, as he said, to reject all those who in their high opinion didn't deserve to be educated, by raising their tuition, or maybe trying to push us through like a cat in a sack story – we're for it to be free. He'll explain it first. The other thing and perhaps equally important, when he stays in this room in voting day, at the moment when we listen to his phenomenal suggestions for hours and vote while he enjoys some lemonade or coffee somewhere, when he stays here and shares the fate of us who care about these laws and thus show that he really means what he proposes, it makes sense that we deal with his suggestions. Until then, let alone vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20117	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20118	I'm using the time of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. To say all this stuff, I'm not gonna get off the subject. A simple way to expose all the demagogue of the "Enough Was" Movement, which requires free textbooks, to suggest this yourself, we will vote in favour of the amendment. As for the vote, the moment you stop voting on the bell, so will we, because then it'll make sense to vote. So again, we're talking about all the children in Serbia, all the 560,000 students in primary schools and all the 260,000 high school students getting textbooks paid out of the budget. All this rhetoric that attacks "Enough has been" cannot turn away from this topic. We just won't let that happen. I'm not going to follow those attacks. I'm just talking about this. There's a calculation. He was put here in the mere explanation of the amendment proposal, says how much it costs and calculated nicely that it is 0.2-0.3% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, twice as much as it is given to the company "Er Serbia" as a subsidy each year without talking about another. That's ten times less than the losses of the Smadere Iron. So we described here and said it was possible, and how important it is to all parents, they know best. So, families that receive 57,000 dinars, who have to buy sets of textbooks, costing from 10,000 to 17,000 dinars per child, so imagine another child, a third child? Well, they have to take credit to get the kids textbooks. Well, this is below all levels. So, the most capitalist countries in the world, America, Canada, the EU countries have provided this cost and are behaving domestically. The textbooks are loaned to children, lasted four years, passed down from generation to generation. Kids keep books. Those who destroy them must pay them, and that is a good system in which education is the right of a child. So instead of these pointless attacks and speeches about us and we're like this or something, let's just say it's all true, but do what we're saying. Enough words, enough accusations. Do something at last. You have one great opportunity now, the Law on Fundamentals of Education. Nicely fetch a member, get some textbooks. All of 'Enough' will come to vote for your amendment. This one doesn't have to be ours. However, it cannot, but it will leave the system by which the costs are laid down on the back of the parents, with the entire industry making progress, which is actually robbing parents, and the law does not solve any of them. No, we're not gonna accept you telling us you're gonna handle this in some future period. So it is said that you will not reduce your pensions, so you have reduced them. That's how it was, that you didn't want Haradinaj, so you went into a coalition with him. So that's not how it's gonna work. Simply bring a member into this law. This is a roof law that gives these foundations and beautifully prescribes – all textbooks, transportation costs, notebooks, pencils, like our children who fled the country because of your poor government and live in the diaspora, there as they get to be in Serbia as well. It's the best measure of birth. It's the best measure to practically show, not just to talk about children, but to really think about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20119	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd even be willing to support this amendment, but he only provides for textbooks to be free of charge. And a ride. A fellow electronician became an economist, became a lawyer, so he says he's an expert in economics. That lady at his place, she suddenly became over some course, I don't know what, which is good, overqualified. But we have a problem. Knowledge isn't just obtained by drumming out of textbooks. If the textbooks are free and if I vote in favour of this amendment, then we must ensure that the strings are free, rodents, rangers, drills. As someone who went to engineering technical school, we didn't just have textbooks, notebooks and pencils, but we had strings, rangers, rodents, welding machines, drills, drills, etc. It all leads us to the fact that someone has to pay for it. Knowledge is not only obtained by drumming, and it is obvious that someone acquired it by observing, experience, practice, and practice is done, again, not just by using books, a gram of practice is sometimes worth more than a load of theory. But someone who's a dry theorist, someone's talking about diaspora and got him out of the diaspora because he wasn't good enough, it's obvious he doesn't know the other kind of knowledge except where he just used a little bit of his memory, that he has knowledge that's absolutely inadmissible, and that's why they kicked him out, not just from the diaspora, but also from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20121	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20122	I'm using the time of my authorized proposing. This won't stop us from talking about the amendment. So, any insults, I really don't care. I'm an electrical engineering engineer and I worked at Simmons, so I don't need to defend my knowledge or my career. To read, here, in the amendment itself, it is said: "The Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide funds for equipment for pre-school, primary and secondary education for all users, especially, but not exclusively for textbooks, notebooks, pens and computers." So that's what the strings and all the other resources needed in vocational and secondary schools are, so it has to be on the budget burden. I don't understand the arguments. These insults are clear to me, but the argument that education doesn't become free is completely unclear to me. Once again – 0.2%, 0.3% of the Republic of Serbia's budget is required to obtain all textbooks. Half the amount "Er Serbia" receives as a subsidy. So this is possible. For all children in Belgrade, the cost of textbooks in elementary schools costs less than masts. For all children in high schools in Belgrade, the price of textbooks costs less than fountains. So, a lot of words and a lot of insults. Let's get to work, gentlemen. Accept either this amendment or one member similar to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20123	According to the amendment, firstly MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20124	Let's have another word, when it looks like it wasn't enough, nice, clear, Serbian. I don't know what specific computers he meant, but he obviously forgot them. It can't be 560 thousand times the price of a desk cannon, a laptop, that turns out to be 56m euros, impossible. The one who was counting on it didn't do anything right. Now I'm here for nothing saying it doesn't add up. Last time we had a slip from the same face in some math there for a whole billion, it still wasn't worth explaining to a man. That's not how it works. I guess it's natural that this kind of matter can't go back and forth with the amendment written and that this is really set up here just because someone wants to give themselves room for the story and to convince themselves that they are, but not just talking, proving by their own personal example that the words bar-bags are cheap. We don't have to deal with this, because whatever he's thinking, let me tell you, Mr. Minister, I'll forget. The way he forgot these computers, he forgot his attitudes. A little while mentioning to Jellyzar, the man who suggested that the ironworks be closed, that was his solution to the problem. Now he can't even remember. We remind him, from time to time, we read him a statement, but somehow it doesn't reach his memory. Since he mentions "Er Serbia", the same man, that you, Mr. Minister and the people watching this, does he have words of praise for the model applied to "Er Serbia", so he forgot? The same man, Mr. Minister, to hear you and the public, and we remind him neatly, because we have a statement. He said that subsidies were good and useful, and then he forgot that he had such attitudes. So he will forget his mistakes today, so he will forget all these empty stories, really completely empty stories that are harassing the congregation and citizens. He'll have one thing left to explain by the end of this session, we won't let him forget, why ask for more tuition, if he wants everything to be free and available to everyone? If he can't find the answer on his own, he can ask his deputy who put it out so proudly as to explain it. Why is he asking for more tuition and why he restricts people's right to educate and perfect, if he thinks everyone should be absolutely enabled and free of charge? That's to answer, and then we'll talk about the vote and that ring that's still ringing, probably because of the 1.4% vote in the election. Otherwise, so do you, Mr. Minister, the public already knows. That's less to you than there were invalid ballots. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20125	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has a national MP, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20126	Thank you. We have been listening for a long time about trying to explain the MPs Sasa Radulovic and trying to convince the Serbian parliamentarians to adopt this amendment, and it would be all right if the explanation did not contain certain illogicalities, or in every word, not to feel illogical, but pure demagogy, empty words that were not covered by works or when he could do so, but even when he was in the parliamentary group that supported him, I suppose that they support him in this amendment, there are no MPs who advocate something quite the opposite of what he demagogues here is saying. It is very easy today in 2017 in Serbia to talk about something that will be free, we will share everything for free, textbooks, uniforms, spring will be permanent, we will have no autumn, no winter, no summer, we will go free to the theatre, we will swim, we will play all day long, and reality is completely different. And those people who listen to you today certainly don't support what you say, because they know it's impossible in Serbia today. What bothers me the most is that I can't support you with my best wishes. Here, I listened to an hour of your efforts to convince Serbia that it should vote for you because of this amendment, because you will share something for free, and that is certainly because you are sitting here next to Dusan Pavlovic, so ask him what he was up for in 2013, which is an increase in tuition and what I was up for the other day, because I listened carefully to a letter from Verica Radet, which clearly has time, so follow what he writes on blogs or social networks, on some Twitter, I don't know, I didn't understand it, I didn't understand it, you won't mind me, where he's standing again for an increase in tuition and after two days you sit next to him and say, "I want everything for free." Secondly, why can't we support you, there's no one here in the hall to support you, because you're asking to abolish "Er Serbia", so wait, there are some people employed as pilots, as technicians, stewardesses, etc., who are the parents of those children, whose mom and dad are going to lose their jobs, and they're going to have a barrel free of charge. Awesome idea, fantastic idea. I haven't heard this in a long time, but in 2013, you were the minister of economy, and then a member of the party, Dusan Pavlovic was against you, because he asked to increase tuition, and you asked for subsidies to be introduced and to help our economy. So how can a man trust you? I don't know, I'm totally confused. I want to support you, but I don't know how to help the parents you're going to leave without a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20127	Thank you. According to the amendment, Sasa Radulovic, the People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20128	The time of the parliamentary group. All these attacks, all this about me, they're really not gonna get me off this point. So, to invent things that don't exist, that never happened, I abolished subsidies, look at the 2014 budget, there were zero subsidies. No one is talking about abolishing "Er Serbia", but is talking about introducing order. As subsidies are now being made over 40m euros a year, the government is talking about irresponsibility. Then we get to this key thing. To obtain all textbooks, for all children, primary and secondary schools, and to go to this lending system, this annually costs half a subsidy to "Er Serbia". When we're talking about the ironworks, and it didn't occur to me to cancel anything, we were talking about introducing order. Instead of introducing order, IDs, asset lists and all that stuff, what happened? Some miracle workers from Slovakia have been brought in, from where they will, like, lead the Iron. Hop, losing 270m euros in two years. That, dear citizens, is enough for 10 years to get textbooks for all children of all primary and secondary schools. That costs 0.2-0.3% of the budget. Of course, all of this says things that just aren't true, which is that there's no money. There's money, it's just being spent on things that shouldn't be spent on, and it's not being spent on things that are important to all citizens, so it's not spending on textbooks, it's throwing money at subsidies, which are foreign investors. Then we sit here, instead of talking about the essence, watching how to attack the opposition, how to attack myself, let me tell you. Let it all be true, adopt the amendment. In your own words, write it. Do not deceive citizens, because the procurement of all textbooks, I repeat, costs 0.2% to 0.3% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is half the amount of the subsidies that Er Serbia receives each year. This is one-tenth of the irresponsible loss made in Željizara in 2014-2015. This is possible. A lot of rhetoric, a lot of attacks, a lot of stories about everything and everything. Here's your chance to do something, the citizens are watching you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20129	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20130	Of course, according to the amendment. It's about to take a break. So, the introduction of order, to get me free textbooks and that education would be absolutely free in Serbia. Education is free, that's what the Constitution says, which doesn't like the side when we call on it, but textbooks have always been bought. Whether this will be so in the future, we all want Serbia to be one respectable, economically strong state, which is already today compared to the period when Radulovic was a minister, so that we have examples like that in Canada and the US, which a respected colleague likes to state there is free of charge. These days, I too, when Sasa Radulovic submitted amendments, received several messages from the parents of children who are educated in America, who are afraid for this education system, which is good in America, precisely because the applicant of the amendment Sasa Radulovic owes the United States for a million dollar tax. They're afraid, as Trump introduces savings measures, if they were in serious danger, and millions of dollars, that would mean in this country seven thousand students would get kits for free. So, I ask the applicant to move from word to deed, to pay the U.S. million-dollar tax, so Trump doesn't have to save on education and calm down our diaspora, because if he pays it it'll be all right and he'll show a good example that even foreign citizens who work occasionally and temporarily in the United States respect that state and pay taxes. And, introducing order, we know what it looks like in the idea of Sasa Radulovic, Želizara, Er Serbia, leaving without the parents' job and children's jobs, but Mom and Dad won't be able to afford anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20131	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20132	Thank you, Chairman. As for free founding textbooks, I don't think anything new should be adopted, except to go back to what DS was doing while she was in power. If all students and students had free textbooks, there were two sets in Belgrade, though, because the city government participated in the action. What is very important is that it also underlines that today's founders of the first, second and third classes of over 15 or 20 kilos have to carry each day to school in their bags, which I think is also one of the things that needs to be discussed and whether two sets can even be considered to be introduced for every child in Serbia, to be in school, to have the second set at home, of course, to be guarded, to be looked after and thus to be transferred from generation to generation. What was fraternizing me again was that once again, Mrs Gojkovic said that she was writing something in the Constitution that didn't say. First, she said that bans do not exist in the Constitution, which is not true, because there are bans on discrimination, bans on censorship, bans on slavery, bans on conflict of interest, which is probably not so familiar to her, but she said only a few moments ago that education in Serbia is free and it is not true. The Constitution says that basic education is free of charge and only basic. What is very important is that this is how the debate on what is written in the Constitution cannot come to a solution, because the Constitution does not prohibit free secondary education and free textbooks for every child in Serbia. Also, we think it's something we used to have money for, and when even the budgets were much smaller than they are today. The salaries were not reduced by educators, and much better was the state of education than they are today. I hope, chairman, that you agree with me too, as Mr. Obradovic, as former minister of education at the time of government and the Government of the DS, confirmed it. I think that is the essence in which the representatives of the ruling majority or Maja Gojkovic, who still doesn't know what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, still gives himself the right to say as president of the Assembly to each of the MPs what he can and cannot do, what is by law, what is not by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20133	My colleague Gojkovic, since you have a basis for replication, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20134	I want to discuss the amendment, but this is a pure replica. What I have rights, I have no rights, I really don't know, I seem to be completely discriminated against in this House. I fear that day when the DS comes back to power, what will become of me. It is likely that some life imprisonment or torture on the island of Gol, but I'm sorry that Micunovic didn't come out, he would have taught them a little bit how to do it there. So you've scared me a lot. I will consider withdrawing from Serbia's political life because of Balsa Bozovic. He's one MP whose words I take quite seriously and I'm pretty scared, not that I'm not. Excuse me, MP Bozovic, the chairman, please explain to him that the Constitution is not improvising. It's taken, so you read what the Constitution says, and then you know what I said and what I didn't say. It's very difficult for MP Bozovic, but by the time I called him, there's time to get to know him. About the conflict of interest, is that what someone's talking about? I don't know how I'm in a conflict of interest? I change my name, last name, corner where I live, and I write it right now. I think my file is like this at the agency. But I'm not sure that's what Reverend Bozovic does. I'm not sure that he does every change in his property records, that he does it as zealously as I do. How am I in conflict of interest? Well, I'm the only president of parliament in the history of parliamentaryism that lived in Belgrade as a tenant. Indeed, there are limits to some of your attacks, because really, as I, as my interests conflict, should be an example to the future presidents of parliament. If you can't say anything else, then really hold back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20135	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a 60-minute break. We continue work at 15.03 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20137	Thank you, Vice President. Article 87 of the 1st session of the National Assembly, as a rule, is held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours, with a break from one hour. When a lunch break was set before that the MP Bozovic could not replicate the president, then we were clearly told that the break would take an hour, or 15.00 hours. We were here, the minister was here at the time, when we were told, even some vice presidents were in the O.R., for some unknown reason none of you who chaired this assembly were there, so no matter what your argument would be, I'm going to ask that the Parliament in voting day declare this injury to the Rules of Procedure, because it's been said that the break will take an hour, not an hour and 25 minutes. No matter what you've broken the Rules of Procedure, I think you owe the MPs an apology, because I really don't know what it's like for us to come here and do it. This morning on the Education Committee we are not allowed to vote on our amendments, and all of you, for some speed, are now 25 minutes late for the beginning of the session that you yourself have scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20138	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. You want the Parliament in voting day to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that's what you said during the interpretation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing our work. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20139	For saving time, I won't explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20140	Thank you. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20141	I'm giving up my explanation for saving time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20142	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20143	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am amending Article 5. The law on the foundation of the education system proposed, instead of the original legal solution, which states that educational and educational work takes place on Cyrillic, that educational work in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia takes place either on Cyrillic or on Cyrillic or on Cyrillic and Latin. So I got in response to the government's refusal to refuse amendments to the argument that the amendment is being rejected because the original proposed legislative text gives wider possibilities. I don't see what that's like, if it only says Cyrillic, and I suggest it can be Cyrillic or Latin or Cyrillic or Latin. I don't see how wider it is than just a Cyrillic. Secondly, it is mentioned in the reasons for the refusal of amendments that national minorities have the right to use their letter during teaching. I wasn't even focused on national minorities, I was focused on the national majority. I'm interested in how kids are going to learn, say, Latin in the Cyrillic High School, how they're going to learn the teaching of information in Cyrillic, how they're going to teach German, let's say, in English, to talk to George Soros, when they meet, for example. How will this be done only on Cyrillic? We do not see the meaning of such a legal provision, which restricts teaching only to Cyrillic, because its implementation in practice will not be possible and we assume that it is pure populism in order to defend Cyrillic. At the end of the line, it is not in the spirit of the Vuk Reform, which predicted that the Serbian language would be open to other cultures, open to the use of language, and that language normation would be consistent with what life brings to language, so democracy now is what the Wolf's reforms see as being threatened in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20144	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Ljubisa Stojmirovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20145	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that the proposal of this member is very correct and that in the spirit of what every country does - respects its language and its letter. We are one of the few people who cares for neither his own language nor his letter. The Cyrillic letter is the most perfect letter in the world. It's a letter that everyone in the language admires. The Americans even tried to do something like that, so they did not follow their hand, and we, whom God has given and who have created such a modern - day letter, try to give up that letter ourselves, and it is seen in everyday life. We are ready in our language to enter many foreign words, and we have examples, let's say, in France, where there was almost a fight in parliament because they did not want to allow the inscriptions to be written in English in public places, but they asked only to be in French, which is quite all right. It won't be any problem for our people to agree to learn a Latin letter, and so far it's been a practice, and so far we've learned both letters, so we won't have a problem using information or learning foreign languages. I welcome this proposal from the ministry. I think we should all think hard and really protect that Cyrillic and our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20146	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20147	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in Article 5, after the words "Serbian language" are added: "and a Latin letter in accordance with the law". What the colleague who spoke earlier pointed out about this Article 5 is that it is completely abnormal for English language classes to be conducted on Cyrillic. Foreign language classes, information lessons, for example, how will Minister Sarčević take place on Cyrillic? To be perfectly clear, I prefer the Cyrillic to the Latin, personally, and with that I really didn't have any problem and I'm not talking for that reason, but because you said that the other law would solve this. I don't think you're really different from the official use of language. So, when it comes to official use, it is resolved by a special law, but this is a public use of language. So, in elementary schools, if a kid in English, how, we make him write with a Cyrillic of words in English. So it's completely incomprehensible that you're not this amendment... To understand one more thing, the Serbian language has two letters. They're completely even. Someone prefers one thing, someone else prefers the other. Mr Stojmirovic was very precise in the fact that it is obvious that only a Cyrillic letter is preferred and preserved. I think it's absolutely like this and we're keeping it with a suggestion that foreign languages, ITs in the Latin letter, within the same language. I don't think there should be anything disputed about that. We have official use, we have public use of language, and it's clear to everyone. I think that's not what you'd have to adopt, if that's okay with you at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20148	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20149	Of course, the children are still in primary school, with teachers, learning Latin as well. There's a tendency here to strengthen the role of Cyrillic. When the teacher enters the class, he will enter in the section “English language” Cyrillicly, and the name of the lesson he is processing is written in the original. That's not at all controversial. This is where the Cyrillic is threatened, not the Latin. I'm a generation that's always worked with one Cyrillic and one Latin. The children rule the Latin well. There was a tendency here that in any other official use, of any other kind, to issue testimonies, to run administrations, all of that, children are forced to use multiple Cyrillics. If we don't do it this way, we don't force it, then we lose our letter. The Latina certainly survives and is taught on all subjects, in foreign languages. He who learns Russian, of course, learns Russian alphabet and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20150	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20151	Thank you. Also, in the spirit of the opposition fellows' proposal, who had just put their amendments on Article 5's first position, which in the current proposal says: "the educational-requesting work is achieved in the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, in the following text: Serbian language", my colleagues and I of the Independent Members' Club believe that abandoning the Serbian Latin letter is outside the law, not only contrary to trends in the 21st century, but also contrary to the current teaching programme in the Republic of Serbia. We have already heard arguments that the Serbian latinic letter is being taught unequally from the first class as well as from the Serbian latinic letter, but we believe that both Serbian letters should be evened in Article 5 of this law and that this article should read – educational and experimental work is being done in Serbian and Serbian Cyrillic and Serbian Latin scripts. Why? It is a completely wrong perception and what we are from colleagues and Professor Stojmirovic, and what he said as a fact, that the Serbian letter is Cyrillic. The Serbian letter is the same as the Latin letter, and at all we who are advocates of diversity do not see why leaving outside the law of the Serbian Latin letter should be in favour of any other letter, nor do we believe that the use of the Serbian Latin letter and its recognition of the law. What's more, we think it's an advantage, and we think that at the end of the day, as many here say what they personally favor and prefer when they write, so will the students. You can write in a journal all the time in a Serbian Cyrillic letter and on a board and in textbooks also use only one letter, students will end up writing as they prefer and as it is easier for them, it is especially in older classes. I give an example of my son and his generation, who are first-class high school, using a dominant Serbian latinic letter. This does not mean that they do not know the well and the Cyrillic letter, nor that it has been neglected, but simply, we as a society that is in the 21st century and that should cultivate diversity and also its letter, so the Serbian latinic letter, consider it inadmissible to be left outside of this basic law. I ask the Minister to take these arguments into consideration once more and accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20152	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20153	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, you know what, I can't believe it. I can understand that someone doesn't like power, I can understand that someone has a deep hatred in them for people who exercise power, but I can't understand that much hatred in a part of the opposition to their country, their people, their letter. I can understand what they're angry about and what they're losing election choices for the election. They're not going to be people in any local community in Serbia, so now you want to shut down a Cyrillic letter. And we should chase it out of Serbia. You want to declare him genocide, too, maybe? You want to look for that, too? You want some resolution on how to handle it? It's amazing how insolent it goes, members of the opposition. We're not for anyone to be banned from using the Latin. Let him use who wants to use it, but we have to respect ourselves, our tradition, our culture, our history. Those who forget who they are, what they are, what their letter is, they lose their identity and slowly disappear over time. Since the SNS together with the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic and the policy we have fought to preserve Serbia, to save everything that you have destroyed for decades in this country, all that you have forced the maltenes to destroy, we will not allow you to destroy the Cyrillic, to destroy such a beautiful name, our Serbia, to destroy our people and to return to the robbery and destroy this country. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20154	The word has a folk letter by Marinika Tepic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20155	I thank the chairman. It's a good thing I don't have to explain the basis for this replica, that you yourself recognized not only the misreading but also the offensive interpretation and the accusations. I didn't even have time to write everything, hate for the letter of Cyrillic, hatred for the state, that this amendment and my colleagues wanted to destroy the Cyrillic, destroy the Serbian people. You know what, dramatization and this connotation of a simple amendment to Article 5 that we're asking for to be recognized in addition to the Cyrillic Serbian letter and the Serbian latinic letter, I think it really creates a kind of full-cutting, I don't have any other word in what you listen to when we explain. So it's such a simple amendment and it's so objective, I guarantee that the vast majority of your fellow MPs from the majority group are also using a Serbian latinic letter and are neither less patriots nor more haters of the Serb people than me or smaller. So we here have a simple question of the usefulness of that reading and matter that our children learn in the education system, how they use it in their maturation, growing up and further education, so it will benefit them in facilitating their educational pathway and getting into good workers and quality workers, without any interference in any patriotic feelings, counting blood cells, which is really unacceptable when it comes to this. It didn't say here that those letters should be monastery Cyrillic, so that I don't know what kind of antagonism, it's very simple to equalize what you and I learned at school. I don't see why you're putting the question of a Serbian Latin letter in the balance of my hatred for the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20156	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am advocating the 107th dignity of the National Assembly and I think the previous speaker has earned at least an oral notice from you, if not a reminder because he has really reacted inappropriately to Mrs Tepic's presentation. It would be like if I took it now and said that Mr. Serboslav Filipovic joined from G17 plus and LDP, the Democratic Party. He says this way, that he believes that the DS, as Zoran Djindjic said, is pulling a European car and I want to help the most organized, most energetic party get that car where we all want to be, in Europe. Only DS can do that. That's what Mr Filipovic said. I don't know if he means as well as Mr. Martinovic, one day one day the other day, and he didn't say what he meant. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20158	So much for you, Mr. Milojich. I don't think I've hurt Article 107 since I can't predict how the MPs will look at and talk about the amendment that is currently under discussion. Since you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure and used to replicate fellow Members of Serbia Filipovic, under Article 103(7), so in the case of the position of the 7th member of the National Assembly, it is required that the time used by the MP using the rights of the 1st member's position be taken away from the total amount of time belonging to his parliamentary group in the search of the current agenda, if his parliamentary group remains time to search. So, you saw, I didn't want to interrupt, but I did apply the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Alexander Chabrai, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20159	Thank you. Article 106, given that I really think that the chairman should apply these criteria more evenly to both sides. I understand both bias and various feelings and obligations, but that doesn't mean that we can't get a real replica, even when I didn't get a replica, when two hours of talking about the amendment that I've made, and I've answered my word multiple times. I didn't get one once. I answered because I think we should still talk about the subject, because we're loading on who the genocide is, and then we're literally talking about genocide, you know we get angry when we're being transferred and invented that we're a genocide people, etc., and we're supposed to call each other genocide, so that's terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20160	My colleague Chabrai, I don't know, you weren't in the system. If you had been in the system and asked for a replica the moment I chaired, you would have gotten a replica, because I am not applying double arches to MPs of position and opposition, as soon as you could see when I gave the replica to my colleague, Marinika Tepic, who was in the system. I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure on a member you've pointed out. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was first reported by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20161	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I'm advertising Article 103 regarding Article 104. One is a replica, and the other is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I think the lady before me, and the speaker you've already taken for two minutes, that you've misused that right, because the Rules of Procedure is advertised immediately after the injury you've done, and another speaker has passed from what they've advertised. So there was no basis to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because they were too late. Secondly, this second exhibition looked like a replica, so I ask you to apply for equality the same rule that you applied to Mr Milojic and to take away two minutes of the parliamentary group that has abused it, subsequently advertising it and using it as a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20162	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) (Marinika Tepic: Don't, why are you making this? ) Because I noticed that he had raised the Rules of Procedure, after which you answered, I heard from you. But here, I'll allow you first of all a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20163	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that Article 8 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is said to be a matter of order at the meeting of the National Assembly, shall be taken care of by the President of the National Assembly. That's what you encouraged me to say, saying an amazing sentence. I ask you to really refrain from doing so, not just you, but everyone who holds the presidency, which is that when you rotate in the presidency, you say, "I don't know what happened before, I didn't chair." The Rules of Procedure do not provide for a moment to begin or end the rotation of those who chair. He refers to the president of the National Assembly, and his deputies who are chaired at that time respect the same provisions, or Rules of Procedure apply accordingly. So we can't record the timing, and no one else should do it when someone's conspired. So you have a technical service, you have a lady sitting next to you, you have a whole team of people helping you manage and conduct the session, to tell you what happened before you took the chair seat. The argument that one of you wasn't present when our rights here were violated, I don't think they stand. Secondly, we have witnessed here all afternoon that the misused advertising of the Rules of Procedure by the majority MPs is in order to replicate it. We were aware that the moment one of us, the circumstances, or the strength of the arguments that he has, slips, perhaps, not intentionally in the replica, not the Rules of Procedure, would immediately have the strictest penalty measure, which is the taking of minutes. Please determine a break if you need to, consult with the people who have been here since 10 a.m. and simply have an awareness of how the session was conducted and that the same arches apply to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20164	Thank you, colleague Tepic. I just said a little while, I don't think you heard right, but I just said there's no double-arshine in running the session. As for specifically colleague Chabrai, I think you've misread it, I didn't say that I didn't attend that part of the session, but I said that I noticed that my colleague Chabrai was in the system and that she answered on the basis of a replica to get the word. (Marinika Tepic: You said you did not chair. Not that I hadn't noticed she was in the system. If I noticed, she'd get a word like you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the people, Serbian Filipovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20165	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, because a colleague advertised a member's injury, and it has nothing to do with anything we've heard here. This shows how they treat both citizens and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As they talked about some long ago times, so they are calling out that somewhere, perhaps even a return, there is nothing, such as never going back to the time in which the City of Belgrade is in charge of a billion and 200m euros, will not return or burn cities, you can forget that Bojana Lekic's consulting services in the waterway will never return, none of it will come back, we will not go back to hiring a law firm to public enterprises in the City of Belgrade, you can forget it, we're done with that. In Serbia, there is a new time, living and working honestly, wages are earned, and they do not live off theft as in the days of some before us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20166	My colleague Filipovic, I was unable to suggest to my colleague Filipovic because my colleague Tepic did not allow it. If you had allowed yourself, not by force and voice, but by the strength of the arguments, I would have suggested to my colleague Filipovic to focus his attention and turn to me, to show me what I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Would you like, fellow Filipovic, that the National Assembly in the voting day pleads on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) (Radoslav Milojčić: Rules of Procedure. ) Of course you will get the word of your colleague Milojčić, but shortly before you heard from a colleague, Aleksandar Markovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20167	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of Article 104, as well as a member of 107 who treats the dignity of the National Assembly, to get over the fact that there was a mistake in quoting the members just before, so the article 8 is quoted. Rules of Procedure, and referring to Rule 108. You know, it was a sad attempt to discredit and demean our distinguished colleague, my friend, Mr Filipovic, by an MP who was only known to be in one local self-government during his government, to spend liters and liters of beer, to spend...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20168	A fellow Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20169	Let me finish, I'll finish very briefly. I just want to say that this is how the dignity of all of us sitting here, the dignity of the National Assembly, because Mr Filipovic is one of us, and the only mistake of Mr Filipovic is that in time he saw what DS is and what DS is and what are the consequences of DS authorities. Mr Filipovic is guilty only because he said no to such politics in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20170	Mr. Markovic, you have pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I am only asking you to point out to me in which way I am, you must address me, not directly to the MPs of the opposition, but to me in which I have injured the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 104 and Article 107. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20171	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Before I point to a member's injury, I only have one question for you, I'm going to step out of the box a little bit, it's not political nature, it's human. I know you as a very correct guy, even though we're not party-oriented. Does it make sense that you took me a minute and a half before you took the previous two speakers away from me? Does it make sense, please, to be friendly? And I'm advertising Article 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20172	I've allowed you two to complete two minutes, and I've interrupted the speakers, and I haven't allowed them to finish. I would also interrupt Mr Filipovic, but I was not allowed by some MPs of the opposition. That is the only difference, otherwise I would have interrupted Mr Filipovic, as I interrupted Mr Markovic. According to the amendment, MP Marko Atlagic came forward, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20173	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that I am shocked by certain amendments and immediately say that I propose that they refuse. For the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the truth, I will read in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for language and letter, Article 10. – in the Republic of Serbia, there is an official use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. The official use of other languages and letters is governed by the law under the Constitution, underlining, under the Constitution. The educational work, according to Article 5, is achieved in Serbian and Cyrillic letters, and since the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter is an integral part of the identity of the Serbian people, not to say that it is the most important, and would go into the growing national identity, so Serbs in general. Proposers had held the same attitudes for 10 years during their advances, as did their contemporaries. Their goal is not only to break up the letter and language, but if you cancel the Cyrillic letter, the next stage is to abolish the national name. Therefore, in this respect, I believe that the law is extremely good, that it has resolved not only the question of the exercise of the right to the official use of the native people, but also of the national minorities, as you can see in the next paragraphs of Article 5, as other peoples in Europe and the world do. Once again, I'm really shocked by the proposal. This is ignoring not only the national name, but ignoring the nation as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20174	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. According to the amendment, Ljubisa Stoimirovic, the People's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20175	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have already said it once, and I believe that the proposal of this member who has given the Ministry is in place. But I'm afraid we've all played a little bit, and we've forgotten that today we're discussing a law that has a word in its name: "request". Let's all wonder if we're acting the way people are being brought up. Let's do this job in a cultural and dignified way, as it does for educated and educated people. I appeal to my colleagues from the post and colleagues from the opposition, to refrain from hard words, and to really do this job with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20176	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go. (Marinika Tepic: I asked for the replica, because it is my amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20177	Thank you very much. Ambassador Tepic asked for a legitimate replica, so I expect you to give it after my speech. I support my predecessor's speech on the opposite side. It would be really nice to show his colleagues what education, education is and to make them go through today's debate in a way that is decent enough to be able to take place in this tall home. What's the amendment? Because of the public, the amendment is to propose that teaching be done not only in one letter, in Serbian, Cyrillic, but also in the Latin letter, also in Serbian. It's the wealth of this people. I can't help it. I'm not that professional or that special. So, only wealth can be when you have two letters that give you the opportunity to communicate with each other, with Serbs, with other Serbian citizens, with neighbours, with the whole world. Intentional remarks that it breaks the Serbian people's corps, identity, and I don't know what it all is, are pointless, as if you're a history professor who escaped from three states and went to third independent to play some professor there. It's a completely pointless thing. Please colleagues across the street, don't defend Serbia and Serbs anywhere. Wherever you defend them, there is no more Serbs in Knin, no more in Prizren, no more in Mostar, no more...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20178	Mr. Zivkovic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20179	Don't defend anything that's Serbian, you're... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20180	Mr. Zivkovic, please respect the dignity of the National Assembly. These last words were not heard because I did not allow the continuation of what you wanted to talk about, and that is the least of the amendments under discussion. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the peoples of Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. What Zoran Zivkovic said was about our esteemed colleague, Professor Marko Atlagic, who was his current minister in the government of Republika Srpska Krajina, an MP at the Croatian Parliament in 1990, when it was not easy to be a Serb in Zagreb, and especially not an MP. What Zoran Zivkovic said in the translation means the following – you Serbs are villains, criminals and you have caused the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. While Marko Atlagic defended Serbs in Krajina and defended Serbs in Knin, I ask Zoran Zivkovic what he was doing? He probably smuggled pumpkins, or that Lule over there tied him up in Nis to a lamppost. Anyway, the Serbs didn't defend. Please, Mr. Milicevic, what Zoran Zivkovic said exceeds the level of personal insult. This is an insult to Serbia and to the account of the Serb people, because the subtext of what Zoran Zivkovic said was responsible for the former Yugoslavia's collapse, because a man who defended Serbs in Krajina was called here, not only politically but also militaryly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20182	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement on the injury in the day of the vote? (Alexander Martinovic: No, I ask to give him a reminder. ) Now let me tell you, what Mr. Zivkovic was talking about did not go into the air, or public, because I interrupted him. (Alexander Martinovic: But it went into a stenogram. People's MPs speak out loud. Mr. Zivkovic, you're right, I give you a warning. (Zoran Zivkovic: Based on what? Why? Based on behavior. (Zoran Zivkovic: What behavior? Your current behavior. (Zoran Zivkovic: Who are you to give me a warning? ) At this point in time, the chairman will have to respect that. According to Article 112, I'm about to take a two-minute break. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic first appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20184	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a very serious topic. I can agree with the amendments in one, that the Latin letter is also our letter stolen by the Croats. But given what's been going on in the last hundred years, I'd still like to protect the Cyrillic a little bit. As it looks in court, counterpart Atlagic was. When I was sued at the time by those from "never had enough", when I came to court, the lawsuit was on the Latin. I come to New Belgrade, to the First Basic Court, a Latin suit. I'm telling the judge, and I'm talking for example. What can come if this doesn't define itself, and the judge tells me that he thinks I don't have the right to Cyrillic, although Article 10 does. The constitution is not disputed. There is a proverb that says: “When you have broken your tongue, you are also a people. ” We as a very endangered people, as the rest of one nation, from whom many other peoples, who have adopted our language and just put some of their marks, have added some two letters and I ask them to return 30 of our letters, means they only use those two when they can. So, first they took over our language, some of them took over our letter, and I agree that Latin, Latin, is a Serbian letter with Latin marks, but we have to be sensitive to Cyrillic as well. It has been abandoned for years, and how much hatred is applied to Cyrillic shows this photograph. (The People's MP shows photos. ) It shows this photograph, this is Vukovar, a border town in the Republic of Croatia, and if we are not careful, it can happen to us, and in Serbia it happens to break tablets with marks of the state of Serbia, so it may happen to us that someone starts to break tablets here because of Cyrillic markings. So this is what we don't need to look up to, but when they can protect the Latin letter they stole from us, why don't we protect our original letter called Cyrillic. The laws are changing. If other nations understand that they are serving our letter, if tensions go down, if this doesn't happen, they won't do anything to us when they write – Serbs on willows. They won't write a Cyrillic letter. They won't do so much to us, so because of this people's sensitivity to all the events and sensitivity to the fact that the Cyrillic letter was not protected in the previous period, I urge that we do so and welcome this as the beginning of the struggle for Cyrillic even if it is equal in the state of Serbia, if it does not cross the letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20185	The People's Messenger LJupka Mihajlovska, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20186	Article 106, paragraph 1, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. So, the parents are watching us, God forbid the children, watching us the academic public and expecting to hear what this revolutionaryly will bring these two new laws. Our minister has fallen asleep a little, perhaps for the first time in a long time you have the opportunity to see what the situation in Serbian schools looks like in this assembly. I ask you to remind everyone who doesn't stick to the agenda, because we here are very clear on what this is all about. It's because the time has been shortened, that is, to extend the time for debate so that we don't have time to discuss the Law on Higher Education and Amendments that they have submitted, so that the public doesn't know that you've broken many things today, the proposal of the Initial Law on Higher Education didn't contain and that you're in bad shape, I can say, at last, how to find a model for universities that haven't been able to get accreditation for many years. I'm asking you all to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20187	Comrade Mihajlovska, you can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure with the chairman, the minister has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20188	I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20189	Talk to me. The second thing is every MP spends his time with his MPs. He can't take anything from you. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? You want him to plead. All right. By amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20190	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, this debate has indeed hit an extremely painful and important topic of social scene in Serbia, which is the issue of the protection of Cyrillic in modern society. I can't really agree here with the opposition colleagues who propose such an amendment, which practically introduces to our society a kind of schizophrenia, which only we have two letters, which should be equally represented, and we all understand that these two letters in the war can't survive. One thing's gonna go away. In all the tendencies we've been looking at for decades, it's Cyrillic that disappears, not Latin. I'm really glad, in that sense, that the representatives of the ruling majority, remembered the Cyrillic after six years of the SNS government and that's a good sign and I welcome them to the positions of the Court and the protection of the Cyrillic in our society. What's dramatic is why you haven't done anything in six years to protect the Cyrillic but here you verbally deal with some amendments, and you have all the power of six years to protect in the official use of Cyrillic in our society, to protect it on the media, to protect it in public inscriptions, on the streets, to protect it in every other way. There is no such protection, you are, at least in the last six years, jointly responsible for the collapse of Cyrillic in our society and state. It's okay, today you remembered there's Cyrillic, today you want to protect it. It's a good thing and we absolutely support it. We're absolutely against schizophrenia and some kind of empty story about two letters that we need equally to cultivate, because it's our fortune. It's not a fortune, it ends up like a colleague said our kids write in Latin and forget Cyrillic. The parks are absolutely against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20191	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20192	Thank you, Vice President. It seems to me I've contacted many speakers before. It doesn't matter. So what we wanted with the previous amendment, which is the same as this, is to say, first that the latin letter is a Serbian letter. Secondly, that the teaching of information cannot be done in the Cyrillic letter and third, let's see that what the minister just said does not appear in the law. You said Ministers and Cyrillics and Latins. The law says – educational and experimental work is done in Serbian and Cyrillic, period. There's no mention of Latin, so what you said in the law doesn't say. In response to this initiative, we get accusations that we hate our people, that we hate Serbia, that we hate the letter, that we want to declare the people genocide, that we accuse Serbs of starting a war and so on. Some MPs are shocked, and I am also shocked that MPs do not know the difference between official and public use of language. At school, the language is not in official use but in public use. I am still shocked that the MPs hold that it is only a Cyrillic letter, a Serbian letter, because they reject their own, as I would say, enemy, archenemy of the Croatian people, because I see them commenting that the Cyrillic is Serbian, and the Latin is Croatian, leave all of Dubrovnik literature that we believe is Serbian literature and imagine written in Latin. Well, they leave behind the works of Ivo Andric, which were first published by Dobrice Cosic. Well, you have no right, Mr. Atlagic, to give it up just because you don't know that the latin letter is a Serbian letter. And who, then, hates the Serbian people, Serbian literature, whether we who are trying to enrich it or you who give up the greatest works of our literature because you do not know that there is also a latinic letter, a letter in the tradition of Serbian literature and of the Serbian people, and that they have the greatest works of our literature written to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20193	Right on line, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20194	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, I'm shocked by the discussion of the previous pay phone, but now we'll clear it up. Serbia's official use includes Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. The Latin was borrowed from Latin, and I have to tell her this, and the Croats borrowed it. It is as Serbian as it is Croatian as it is Hungarian, but in Croatia, their official national letter as Cyrillic in Serbia is a Serbian national letter. National minorities, you see in this article, are said to use the letter, certainly their letter and so on, with certain characteristics and standards set. It is not true, my colleague is not engaged, this is a matter of paleography that I teach students, and I recommend that my colleague Jerkov, who now does not listen, come to my class of lectures - Latin and Slavic paleography, and along with my students to clarify, and then learn that there was a Serbian office in the Serbian letter, not just in the Latin language. The Croats used the Old Slavic language until 1925 and then gave up their old Slavic language, i.e. the Glagolitic letters and borrowed from Latin, etc. So, the Latin is as Serbian as it is Croatian as it is in Bosnia, as much as in all other peoples, who use the Latin, but this is about the Serbian national letter. Cyrillic is a Serbian national letter. Therefore, it must be in official use, and even, let me ask myself, in use. So bilingualism is guaranteed where two nations are in the local community, where in certain standards there is a second language and a letter in use. Thus, giving up your national letter means giving up to yourself, as Stefan Nemanja also spoke to his successors.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20195	Thank you. You have no right to speak to your colleagues, Jerkov. You were invited by your colleague Atlagic for a lecture. No, no. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20196	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I will not use much time to support the ministry's initiative with a very picturesque example, and that those of you who have doubts about whether there has been a disintegration of national integrity, as Professor Atlagic said. You'll best see if, by any chance, you go to Banja Luka. I guess most of you were there. There is a huge monument in the center of Banja Luka. Obelisk. It is located over which once the Serbian Orthodox Church, fortunately, was brought down again today. There are the verses of the Serbian poet, where one line is written in Cyrillic and the other one in Latin. An incredible nonsens, something that only illustrates the example that in the name of brotherhood and unity this nation was ready to give up its national identity, and for this reason I welcome that today's Cyrillic letter is being re-established and protected by this kind of law. You know, in order to survive in human form, we must protect our culture, our identity and our national dignity. I ask you to keep your human form at least until the end of this term, to preserve your identity and your culture. I don't think you'll be needing it later, but you can go back to your natural form. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20197	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20198	I thank the Chairman, and I believe that, perhaps not on purpose, you have violated Article 104, or allowed the contents of my amendment to be misread on Article 5 of this Act, which all have before them, and so do you. I believe that, in the role of the chairman, you should still have more attention and attention than other uninterested MPs or interested, that is, for misreading. All the time, in the last few minutes, my colleagues and your colleagues are not only misreading but also twisting the contents of my amendment, and you're not reacting to it. They're talking about denying a national identity, that this intervention is a denial. It does not mean giving up, nor does anyone give up a Cyrillic Serbian letter, but also suggests adding a Serbian Latin letter. I ask you, that there be no confusion in the public, that you, as chairman, who has all the amendments, draw attention to the fact that no incorrect data is provided, that the contents of our amendments are not distorted, and that after that we are not burdened against those we insult, or present, minors, warring here statements. On the other hand, we listen to such difficult qualifications from crime to genocide that they are such terrible and serious institutes that our country has been pushing back for years, they are a terrible burden on our country so that we can easily flirt with them and put themselves in the context of something that is incomparable to serious crimes such as genocide and others that are mentioned. I'm asking you not to do this with this debate, because it really isn't the place, in which it puts us at risk of insulting the victims of genocide and other bad acts done in someone else's name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20199	Comrade Marinika, every MP has the right to interpret the amendment as he feels he should interpret it and I can't help you. I can in case your amendment is accepted and it will remain recorded, so if someone asks for an authentic interpretation of that Article 5, which was created by accepting your amendment, you will be the first to submit an authentic interpretation. In the debate, every MP has the right to interpret him as he deems necessary. The injury of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20200	I'm advertising Article 107. So, maybe every MP has the right to authentic interpretation of the amendments that are being discussed and I agree with that, but there is no MP who has the right to insult the dignity of the National Assembly, and you have just allowed it, by saying that we are going to be, that we should now be in some human form, and that we can then return to some form that is not human. If this isn't an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly and a great deal of MPs sitting here, I don't know what to say, so someone can understand that the National Assembly is offended by it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20201	I agree that my colleague Krlić has gone too far and I will take care of it next time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20202	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(3). The presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage of reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. A short while ago, the Rules of Procedure were held simultaneously by counterpart Sasa Radulovic and co-worker Cabraj. He's the president of the parliamentary group, she's not. You gave her the word, not him. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Just don't tell me you haven't seen him, man's got two feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20203	I didn't see him when I gave my colleague my word. Do you want a colleague, Radulovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? There, I didn't make much of a mistake, he gave up. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20204	Dear Vice-President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand from this debate that since the SNS wants the law to ensure that our children do not teach Latin in elementary school. I so understood you from the SNS explaining that this is an official language of Serbian, Cyrillic letter, so only to learn a Serbian Cyrillic letter. That is why I support the adoption of this amendment, to allow our children to learn Latin legally. I don't see why she'd only study Latin in English. I guess they can learn Latin in a Serbian language class. These letters differ in English and Serbian. Therefore, we should enter the law the possibility that in the second grade, as we have learned so far, our children are still learning Latin. If this amendment is not accepted, it may be prevented by these authentic interpretations given by SNS MPs. I think it's good that our kids know both Cyrillic and Latin, and we don't see anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20205	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20206	Thank you. I will speak in Latin because I want to remind everyone that it is offensive to defend the use of Cyrillic by making it impossible for Serbs, Serbs and other peoples and peoples who write Cyrillic to save their own letter. It's offensive to talk about Cyrillic as an identity and then to say, she's threatened because we don't want to exercise our identity. As offensive as that is, there's a clear point, only if you think about what we say when we say it is going to be an order to apply the Cyrillic because it's our identity. Either we have an identity, or we don't have one, and misusing a single language letter for, I'd even say, under the political level of debate about whether our nation is at risk or not, it's not worthy of anyone who speaks this language. That's why I speak Latin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20207	I thank you, the People's MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20208	Thank you. My amendment also goes in the direction that we not only define ourselves as a Cyrillic in the development of educational-experienced work, but also to hold the Latin. In doing so, I'm not going to talk so much about these reasons of celestial Serbia, but I'd like to get down to the ground a little bit and see what this will look like in practice. So a few questions for the legislator: does this mean that children will no longer learn Latin in the second grade of elementary school? Minister of Climate, he says, will learn. Here, let me explain what that's gonna look like. They're gonna learn Latin, and they can't use it. It's already happening, I'm talking about basic school experience, I have a kid in elementary school, and teachers are defending kids from writing in Latin. This when they see it, they'll divide the units unless it's written exclusively with Cyrillic. The second thing, in light of the rejection of the amendment, the minister said the issue is being resolved by another law. What other law? This is roof law. I ask you, two letters are our wealth, let us not learn Latina from the teacher to the “teacher”, but leave things as we have so far, that we have two letters that can be equally used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20209	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added to Article 5a after Article 5a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20210	Thank you. Here you learn a lot about rhetoric, so we hear from the ruling majority one start that I could use now and say that the great hatred that the ruling majority feel for the opposition should not prevent them from doing something that is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because this is the rhetoric you used, right? In a way like this, of course we shouldn't talk. The fact is, we've suggested a lot of things here. Among other things, it is proposed, for example, to limit the number of students per class, so that the maximum grade in primary and secondary schools can have 20 students. It's one of the factors that we can influence the quality of education. It's a member who's been proposed, I'll use this argument, it's in the interest of all citizens. Then why doesn't the ruling majority support this? Is it just hate for the opposition when we talk about this? These are some things where it's not only important to define the means for something, but it's also important to work on the quality and quality of education indicators for people who get. We'll all agree that classrooms where, especially in Belgrade, there are 30-32 students, you just can't get to quality teaching. Therefore, with such an amendment, the state should provide sufficient resources for children to study in areas of reasonable size. Also, pre-school institutions should limit the number of children per group per teacher who runs the group, so that those children in pre-school institutions get quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20211	According to the amendment, the People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20212	I call for it not to be accepted, just as just before and of course that the amendment's proposing does not see any difference between, as he said hatred and his own indifference, or problems with mathematics, that is no reason for us to support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20213	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic, but first Marijan Risticevic. (Sasa Radulovic: How? He checked in before you did. (Sasa Radulovic: What are you asking me? To know if you weren't looking for a replica. (Sasa Radulovic: Now you ask everyone. I can accept or refuse, but first I have to ask you. Sasa Radulovic: Do you ask each time? Because I don't hate you, that's what I'm asking. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't mind you mentioning the gentleman speaking before me. I'm afraid he's mixed up. Article 5 does not refer to the number of students. Did I make a mistake? According to this, 5a, he suggested that education be that, that and that, there is nowhere to talk about the number of students. He says -- mathematical evidence in the election theft. We had all the covered polling stations, the theft wasn't there. The same man, amazing. Number two, one asks for the tuition to increase, those in the group never had enough, others asking for the tuition to be free. A colleague of Rasulovic, he says – I am against subsidies. Then, the newspaper "Blic" says – it is certain that in 2014 we will not go to the suspension of subsidies for investors who are opening new jobs, it reveals for "Blic" Mr Rasulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20215	Comrade Risticevic, what does this have to do with the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20216	There is. I'm saying that, as he mixed this, high-school tuition, increased tuition, took off the tuition. Free schooling, subsidies to be introduced, not to be introduced, there was electoral theft, there was no electoral theft, the same man said, according to the amendment, free education comes out and explains how many students should be in the department. Either he's a musician or he's not a musician. If he's a musician, let him play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20217	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20218	I think citizens can see very well what it's like when the ruling majority MPs want to run away from the debate and to run a variety of topics and play various falses, just so they don't talk about what's really the point of the agenda. Here, let me tell you, this member that I'm proposing, that's Article 5a. and there is one attitude that says – the primary or secondary school department can have a maximum of 20 students. So the previous speaker obviously wasn't telling the truth. They want us not to discuss this. They'd like us to discuss all these things they're planting, some of this fiction. If you want to see, say, subsidies to foreign investors, it's enough to look at the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the year I proposed, the budget of the Ministry of Economy, which they all voted for together, because that's what the bells were telling them, and that budget abolished subsidies to all foreign investors. Order has been introduced in Serbia. So that's what I'm talking about. To introduce all these things into the Republic of Serbia, and free textbooks and transportation for all children, and to provide a maximum number of students per department, all of this can be paid because there is money in the budget. The problem is that money is spent on the wrong things. It's spent on a waste of money, on various subsidies, foreign investors, on corruption, on things. When I tried to impose order, it was stopped and that's why I resigned. Therefore, in order not to escape from the essence, citizens should know. The point is, Amendment 5a. It also proposes free textbooks for all children, in all primary and secondary schools, to limit the number of students per department, suggests many things that all parents need. This is just a cheap attempt to get away from the essence. Gentlemen, word time's up. Let's get some work done, you've got an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20219	Thank you, colleague Radulovic, your two minutes are up. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20220	I only have to say that the average student in Serbia's primary schools is currently 19.1.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20221	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20222	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, especially you, my dear peasants and peasants, or whatever they call you, here's an example of how to eliminate Mr. Radulovic I don't know how many departments. I hope so, Minister, we won't let that happen. When he had already proposed an amendment, he should have predicted for rural areas that it would be a small number of children, since children in rural areas are not available. The metropolization has done its part. A large number of children went to town sooner or later, after getting an education. All the great minds were born in the country, so I wish the previous speaker had talked a little bit about it. But he tried to say that I wasn't telling the truth. But that's where it stands. It's undeniable. And not one medium published, 12. 09. In 2013, "to be sure that in 2014 we will not go to the suspension of subsidies for investors who create new jobs", he reveals for "Blic". He explains that this measure exists in other countries and that it is clear that "there must be something that will make investors define themselves precisely for Serbia". I welcome that opinion. He probably didn't mean it, he just said it. But I welcome what he said because it brings new technologies. New technologies bring jobs. New technologies with new jobs bring new education systems, new education, bring new knowledge. But, well, he didn't know what he said, because someone probably wrote to him and it was -- read what was written to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20223	Comrade Radulovic, you have no right to a replica. You don't have it because you were supported by your colleague Risticevic in what you said while you were a minister. (Saša Radulovic: By amendment. After the amendment? The amendment is first followed by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20224	Thank you. Article 106. Just as no pictures of Vukovar, according to which I would expect a little more respect in this home, have little to do with this debate, there is no electoral theft, no new technology, etc. As you said yourself, the chairman, they have nothing to do with this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20225	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20226	Thank you. In response to this topic on one part of the amendment proposed by the DJB Parliamentary Group, which speaks of the maximum number of students, the only answer we could hear from the minister is the average number of students in Serbia, which, behold, is slightly less than 20. But it's not essential and it's not saying this amendment that the average student per class should be less than 20 or 20, but not more than 20 students in the department. Why does it matter, Minister? Here, I found here while discussing your school's website. You are now boasting there and saying – the number of students in departments ranges from 10 to 20, which enables the application of modern forms and methods of work, in order to achieve better quality knowledge and skills. So, you, Mr. Minister, in your previous life as the director of a private school institution, knew very well why it was important that the departments do not have more than 20 students and that this way works better and better. When we talk here about the law that needs to be regulated for education throughout Serbia, then it's perfectly okay to talk about whether that number of maximum 20 students can and should be found as a legal obligation and whether we can then talk about how much it will cost the state of Serbia and whether we have opportunities, material and human resources, to meet it, and not so casually that we attack from the opposition that we know nothing, how we just want to obstruct the debate, and your answer to be how average students in one department are. I will remind you that the average salary in the Republic of Serbia is 44 thousand dinars, but the problem is that 350,000 people in the state of Serbia receive 25,000 dinars and this government does not deal with it. So this is how you try to cloud the problem of education, the problem of departments that have 30 and more students and which is the quality of teaching in such departments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20227	The word has a minister, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20228	I worked my time when it was directed, when I had 49 students in my class. But it all depends on the swingr. So 19.1 is talking about something else, which is the white plague. Of course there are other problems in those same numbers, and there are mountain dogs, villages and others, where there are fewer. There are only high concentrations in a few cities – Belgrade, Novi Sad, Pazar. We're doing a whole study with the World Bank, all those networks, to see where we're at. Absolutely, it's about 20 students in pedagogical. Once again depends on the composition, from many other factors, and when departments are formed, experts know how it's done since the first elementary, then the first high, etc. It's a big subject. My intention wasn't to honor the story that 20 is a bad number. It's a question of money again. I'm saying, unfortunately, this is reality. So 19.1 student is something I found.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20229	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20230	Thank you. First, I would like to welcome the presentation of MP Djurisic, who is practically talking about the essence. The minister has now confirmed, which is very good, and what he wrote on his school website, that a class of 20 students is actually a department that can guarantee, up to 20 students, a good quality of teaching. Then the question remains – why don't we put that restriction on? Let's say, possible additions to the law are also to set up 20 students and give a deadline in which the state will meet it, because, let's say, in Belgrade, the average in the territory of the entire city is about 24, in secondary schools 25. It's way above this 20. And when we get a little rope into town halls, the minister knows that, we get to number 30. What's the problem, and the minister can't change this, even though he knows what's good for the students, he certainly knows that the number 20 is a good number. However, in order for this to happen, the entire government must stand behind it. It has to become a priority. The state needs to define the money for that. Now, that's where we get into the problem, and then, of course, those things that the minister knows as an expert, he has to shut up when he's talking about what the government wants to support, because it's important for the government to grant subsidies to Serbia, it's important for the government to give subsidies to foreign investors, it's important that the government throws money away. It's about corruption. You take a racquet 30 percent. That's what I stopped as a minister, because when we went to the ministry, we saw money being thrown that way, so we stopped them all, because they don't open new jobs and they open up, they're for cheap labour. So let's go back to the essence of this amendment, which is -- let's introduce quality criteria, exactly what you said before you became a minister, to figure out that number of 20, to predict the time in which we're going to implement it, because it's a limit to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20231	Thank you. The word has a minister, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20232	One constructive sentence. We have a 2020 strategy, which we keep mentioning, and here we have a very important topic. I talked to Minister Vujovic about it. Law jobs, it's over 200 sublegal acts, it's a rule of space, it's never done a study as much space as we really have. If you need, billions of euros, you should, if you go into one-way work, which is why I'm talking, is an opportunity to look at the standards of the current schools and institutions, and that's exactly what you're doing. So I really don't know if this is the wrong thesis right now, but we already have it. It stays to be repacked. Another phenomenon. Parents think that there may be some mantra that city schools are better and then bring children, even the directors of these schools receive children over the number. So, not only is it a constitutional right to bring a parent wherever he wants, but it violates the standard of the space of those schools because he receives too many children. On the periphery of a large school, built, has space, stays empty. The quality of work should be uniformed on both the periphery and the center. There's a lot more to it than this. There is also one space to look at the overall resources of space at Serbia's level. If you have a 90-square classroom that was once planned for a huge department, and now you actually have almost two of it, not to say, of two, three sure, it's automatically a question of whether we should run away from the fact that the 2020 Strategy is about single-minded work something we shouldn't do. I think it should, but now it only raises new questions after these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20233	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20234	I'll make sure this is brief again. It's nothing unusual that we've been listening here for a while, although it only seems at first sight that it may be, on some average salary, statistics on the subject. It's not unusual to know that an ex-president, a famous model, seems to have mistakenly admitted that the average salary today is better than in his day. If there's some sort of amortization of that story that might not be quite so, I'm sorry, too late. It's a shame we didn't hear what the one who got up to talk about this amendment didn't say - and what I thought about the amendment itself, is what these people suggest or is it against? It's more than clear that it can't be reduced to the story of the number of children in the class. He can't, because I guess it's generally known that there's no adoption of amendments in part, either everything goes, or it doesn't go at all. When it comes to content itself and what the proposer keeps repeating, of course, repeats the same thing. I'm not going to ask him to explain anything further until he answers what he was asked for three amendments ago and three rounds ago, one of those same stories. In doing so, of course, I don't mean the question – why, if he cares so much about wages, standards and how people live, is he behind the abolition of the Ironworks? I get that. I know the answer. Because she can't do any better than that, so she's suggesting it. I want him to tell us, if for 560,000 students, he proposes to buy each computer, how much money? For now, he's avoiding answering, and more than clearly why he's avoiding it, and I'm saying he won't have the courage to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20235	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20236	As authorized. I thank the Minister for this constructive discussion. This is a really important question. The transition to one-way work is something we should also achieve. The cost of this is huge because it requires both space and so on. However, this second cost by limiting the maximum number of students, I think we should have put it, or that it should stand in law, because this law should also represent for all these sublegal acts that you're talking about, we're talking about, because when we don't do it in law, then in sublaws, there's a lot of things that can come out. Therefore, this restriction, that there are more students per school in Belgrade, unfortunately, is a matter of migration, because jobs are weak in the rest of Serbia, unfortunately, and fewer and fewer people are fleeing to Belgrade, further to the world, and it has been a picture in Serbia for many years, and because of these migrations, we are actually getting a large number of children in schools in Belgrade, and there is a serious decline in smaller environments. You understand all these things. What is the essence of what we disagree on, what we're trying to say here, is that these are exactly the kind of things of this law, and that some of these things, like this one that restricts the number of students in the department, should be in this and this kind of law, which is why I'm saying so, because that's what you said, is improving quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20237	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20238	Minister, I suggest you reconsider the adoption of this amendment, or let's see if the parliamentary group that proposed this amendment could make a correction. If colleague Orlic says, in front of the SNS, that there is only a limit on the number of students, the amendment could be adopted, and you can't, because of other things, and you realize that it's better to be up to 20 and say – it's not so hard to achieve, since there are more, there are less, there are less, suburban schools may have fewer, and these in the city centre more. So it's not hard to get to that number, up to 20. That's why I think the law should be bound by 20, then the directors would behave more responsibly and they wouldn't be able to get over the number. We found, when we discussed this same law three days ago, there are technological surpluses, we have enough professors, we have enough buildings. There's no reason why these departments shouldn't be up to 20 and our kids won't get quality knowledge. If we can't do this, the whole law falls into the water, because you here in front of all of us and in front of Serbian citizens admit there's no money for education. If we stay in that there is no money for education, we will not do anything about it, which is a priority for Serbia. So we need more money here and less money in many other areas. We now will, as messengers, help you with what you wish to accomplish. Let's limit this to 20. The amendments can be corrected, the committee can submit an amendment and that's how we solve this thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20239	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20240	Your Honor, I think I've already said that we've already done it, and less than that. But it doesn't work here, it needs to redistribute space, people, transportation and other things, because sometimes civilized countries drive students. When you have a small rural environment, with three, four, five students, then 10, 15, how are you going to organize their high school class without everyone going to, say, economic school? It also needs a network of homes. We've been doing exactly the entire study and the World Bank has been helping us, for six months now we've been working on a new network of schools that haven't been built since Tito's time. So some order of moves must be established. So, first of all, this study of the network of schools, secondly, is about predicting everything we said last week, and some movements, about the birth rate, the use of special resources for preschool, for student tourism, and more. For the first time, Minister Vujovic and I have talked about this topic, apropo of these laws, which is that the question is now being raised, unfortunately, because of a small number of children and a low birth rate, the possibility of attacking the biggest problem of the strategy, which is precisely single-minded work. There's no need to explain what's the advantage of single-minded work, because my colleague Marco would go back to the site and see that it's also there. I didn't make anything up. Pedagogical science is famous, but it just depends on whether you have the conditions to make such a single complication of events. It's a very studioy thing to do. So if I said Thursday, when we saw each other, that only 26% of the one action plan was real according to the strategy, now we need to make a real action plan towards it. It's the first time that's gonna happen. I can't make any promises. What to do with small rural schools in endangered areas, in mountain areas, in border areas, where are certain minorities? There are a lot of questions, but if I took the job and said it for the sake of quality and all. There's a lot in this law. We talked last week, and I think it's only reasonable that certain changes and additions will have to work for at least a year. As soon as the employment ban law came out, I gave a hard word to the teachers, that I would then be able to give them the status of teachers indefinitely, and that's what's said. I can't right now. Someone before me could have been 14 years ago, so he didn't. But this is all the same story. You know, I just don't want to steal time from the Assembly, but it only requires a stronger elaborate on the subject. So, you're working hard on it. We're introducing, you're going to look at members who come along later, and that's exactly the same learning and a number of other things. All of this other stuff is very important for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20241	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20242	I'll use the time of the president of the parliamentary group. To repeat, Minister, one big problem is with these promises, whenever we listen to them here in the Assembly, one minister says something, then the government falls, another minister comes in and we don't talk about anything. One constructive proposal here that we've got is to isolate this. You can also give a deadline. Let's say, if that analysis takes a long time, let's say it's limited to 20 students per grade in primary and secondary schools, and then within, say, two, three years, it's provided in all schools. Let me tell you one more time, you said the average number is below 20. But here we're talking about the maximum number. It wasn't done today. We're a long way from this in the larger environment. You mentioned yourself Belgrade, Novi Sad and Novi Pazar, where we have a situation that the number of students per department is far above 20. That's why we want to make a provision in the law that will guarantee that this will happen, because experience so far says that as the law is passed, what should be said after that as if nothing had happened, because the money is ultimately gone, because the government is not ready to separate the money for education. In this way, they would put it in the law and then it would have to happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20243	The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Marijan Risticevic and Dr Marko Atlagic. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20244	For saving time, I won't explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20245	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20246	For saving time, I'm giving up my argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20247	Representatives Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 6th amendment. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20248	In several amendments, we wanted to legally, Mr. Minister, highlight the importance of the school library that is somewhere beyond your attention in this law. In particular, in this amendment, we have defined the importance of caring for the very standard of space and equipment for libraries. In another amendment, we asked that a representative of the Association of School Libraries of Serbia, or the Association of School Libraries of Serbia, come among the members of the National Educational Council, and a little later, we also asked for mandatory literature and other books to equip our school libraries. In response, you said you simply couldn't support this amendment for the reason it's being solved by sublegal acts. We have no doubt that there is a good will to take care of school libraries and sublegal acts, but we think it would be more important to raise care of them to a legal level, because it would show, as I say, respect for the importance, place and role of school libraries in the education system. The other thing is that of your rather unsettling argument about what a legal representative is. You clearly said someone had added that to you, whispered, said, taught you, and then you didn't explain what was behind it. So, parent or guardian, no third. Parent or guardian. Who's the third legal counsel? He's gone. Who is it? Only homosexual couples and children adopted by homosexual couples. So, explain why you're changing, why aren't you in line with the Family Law that only recognizes parents or guardians? Why are you opening Pandora's box of some new legal agents that don't exist right now? So, I think we're absolutely right and we're right anyway, and I don't agree with the chairman here, that we have our own position on this matter, and it can't be a hate speech when we say that we're against homosexual marriages, that we're against adoption of children by homosexuals, that we're against gay parades. Look, it's freedom of thought, it's democracy. We have the right to be against it. We think it's bad for our society, that this country and society don't need to go that way. Why did we react, I just want to point that out to you? Because so many times we've burned ourselves watching the ideology of homosexuality march on our institutions. First, they're only asking for one gay parade, and then they're asking him to enter the law, then enter the textbooks, and enter kindergartens, and enter schools, so they're asking for a ban on discrimination on sexual orientation, which is not human rights, etc. So there's no end to LGBTI requirements, etc., population. So you're opening up to them the possibility that without changing the law in perspective you have homosexual couples as legal advocates of children who are adopted in these marriages. We simply suspect that someone has whispered to you and that someone has added that formula to you, which does not exist in Family Law, as someone in the Ministry, behind your back, has been doing sex packages, Mr. Minister. So, I'm based on evidence from your work so far, that someone is working behind your back, that you don't know what...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20249	I believe this subject is fantasticly interesting to you, and the tide is an amendment. So, from the sex package, and I don't know what you've already been meaning to say, please, go back to your standard.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20250	Are you using my time, I apologize? Are you using my time and you didn't sign up for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20251	No, I don't. Article 27. A little Rules of Procedure, however, when you have time, when you stop thinking about homosexuals, read little Rules of Procedure. So I'm running a session. It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20252	So, the only people who are thinking about homosexuals and their rights are members of the SNS and their president, who's been thinking about it for six years and worrying about how it's supposed to be. We don't worry about it, we're against it. That's a big difference. You worry about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20253	Nice. Just about the amendment. Here, you didn't explicitly write it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20254	I made it very clear to Mr. Secretary, and he understands me perfectly, unlike you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20255	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20256	He understands me perfectly. He allowed himself behind his back at the Ministry of Education to work on certain educational programs that failed neither the consent of parents nor the professional bodies nor anyone else. When he saw it on our intervention, he banned those educational programs. Now we tell him, someone's putting him back in terms that don't have a foothold in Family Law. There is no legal representative, there is a parent or guardian. Don't let anyone throw something behind your back that has nothing to do with our tradition and that prepares the ground for something to come, which is the clear demands of an ideologist and lobbyist gay lobbyist in Serbia, which is at the heart of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and at its head. Was I clear enough this time?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20257	Let's see. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20258	This second one is not clear to me yet. You know, there's no intention in that sense, nor could it have occurred to me, like you. Legal counsel, I'm going to explain this one more time, it applies to parents, guardians, grandparents, lawyers and a number of other people, and I respect lawyers who are smarter than me. If they tried to trick me, here's what you found out, I didn't. When it comes to libraries, really sublaws must be arranged in the field of library. In recent years, librarians of schools have been decimated by whatever remains a technological surplus could have been in the library, any profession, which is a little illogical. This even drew on the role of librarians more than a library story. I think after 25 years, I'm the first minister to invest money from last year and this year in school libraries. The Librarian School knows that, ask them. So, we're going to be very soon in one of the sublegal acts dealing with the question of who can be a school librarian, what is the role of all the expert associates of the institution with weight and at the library, and if you know, behind this is the change of plans and programs that occur. There will also be a wider social debate about what she's reading, what she needs to be a lecturing, what she's never been and what she's supposed to be. So there's a lot of issues here and it's going to be very public. The library call at school has a very big role and significance, at least that's what I think, and I don't just say it here in words, but here's a year and a few days I've shown in action and I think we'll first set up according to the normative who can work and teach, and then what are the obligations and jobs of the librarians at school, along with other professional associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20259	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20260	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, first of all, Mr. Bosko Obradovic obviously does not know the legal system of the Republic of Serbia enough and the only thing he can speak is constant lies, insults at the expense of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. Mr. Obradovic, the parent is primarily a biological category. Legal counsel is a legal category. The child, since he doesn't have full business capacity, must have a legal representative. You're playing with one topic that's not a little naive, not a little harmless and doesn't deserve a daily political level of debate. Parents are legally legal advocates of their children, but the minister told you a situation that is very life-threatening and which unfortunately happens. The law must define who is the legal representative of a child whose parents are divorced. That's one situation. You want me to give you another situation that is unfortunately even more drastic than this one. What if both parents don't, for example, die in a car accident? Someone has to be the legal representative of that child. Someone has to protect his rights and interests until he's a minor, and you've left it all out in your head and immediately transferred it to the minister, as he allegedly promotes homosexuality and gay marriages. How can you not be ashamed? So this is just amazing. When I don't know something, at least I keep quiet about it. You boast of your ignorance. Ask your colleagues, I guess there's someone who's a lawyer and doesn't have to be a man of a kind. The child must have legal counsel. There must be someone who protects his rights and interests when contracts are concluded, when he enters school, when he travels abroad. Someone in the name of the child has to, to sign, to give consent, to take care of the child. Is that gonna be a parent? It would be ideal in every situation of life to be a parent, and to be both parents, but what if parents are divorced, what if God doesn't give parents something to happen, the law has to predict such situations. You will not say any of this, but there is a dark intention of SNS, Alexander Vukic, to promote homosexuality and gay marriages. There is no category of gay marriages in Serbia. So there is no one from the Serbian government, no Alexander Vukic, no one from the SNS intends to introduce gay marriages into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. What you have a problem with, that's what I told you today, you who are great Serbs, who are great Orthodox Christians, who are against migrants, who look forward to entering the German Bundestag Alternative for Germany, you send them congratulations for that. Why don't you say he's a high-ranking official and your Alternative for a German lady named Alice Wadel. The woman is a declared lesbian. He lives in marriage to his girlfriend, or second mate, and raises two children. Since you don't mind, but you send them congratulations, you send them greetings, you look forward to the fact that they entered parliament, and in the Serbian Parliament you object to Alexander Vukic, Minister Sarčević, SNS how we allegedly promote homosexuality and gay marriages. What bothers you is the fact that Serbia is a state today, that the police are doing their job and that everyone can walk peacefully in the streets of Belgrade, as you have walked peacefully under those same gay flags in rainbow colors, along with Sasa Jankovic, along with Bojan Pajtic, along with Boris Tadic, along with Vuk Jeremic and you have no hair from your head, so today Belgrade can walk freely and those who consider themselves gay orientators and I see nothing wrong with that. But it's one thing for the police to do their jobs and guarantee everyone safety, and the other for promoting homosexuality is as social values, and especially for you to say that we are in favour of introducing homosexual marriages. Please tell me, one SNS official, tell me a statement by SNS President Alexander Vukic, who has ever said he supports the introduction of gay marriages in Serbia? That's not there, that's what you made up. But that's why your members of the gay population are very good at bringing you into parliament when you need to cross the censorship. When you were photographed last year outside the old National Assembly building in King Milan, along with Bojan Pajtic, along with Boris Tadic, along with the others so-called. The leaders of the opposition, you didn't mind the flags in rainbow colors. You didn't mind this year when Belgrade for months, without any reported protest and public gathering, people protested because they were unhappy with Alexander Vukic's victory and waved flags with rainbow colors. You also tweeted their support, congratulations, told them how great it was, how fancy it was, how to take down Alexander Vukic by all means. So to you when people of gay populations respond, you have nothing against them, you're with them on the same side. When you think you can take some votes by being a little against migrants, a little against gay people, then you're against gay populations. How do you not mind this German woman who raises two children in marriage to a female? I don't understand how you don't mind it, and you are disturbed by Minister Sarcevic, who talks about the legal representative of Serbian children, in Serbian schools in the Republic of Serbia in situations that are unfortunately very life-threatening. So you have to talk with even some knowledge of matter which is the topic of the agenda. It is not enough just to repeat ten times – Aleksandar Vukic is a dictator, Aleksandar Vukic is a villain, you in SNS are advocating gay marriages. Here, I don't stand for it. I'm a father of two female children. When did you hear from me that I advocate gay marriages? But on the other hand, I'm allowing people to be such orientations, and I'm allowing them the right to walk the streets of Belgrade if they think they should. But you took pictures with them, not me. You were under those flags. You've been hanging out with them. You've been looking forward to it. You are in the same front as to attack Alexander Vukic, SNS, Nebojsa Stefanovic, Serbian police, etc. Therefore, Mr. Obradovic, before you say anything on this subject, read some legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia, make the difference between the parent category and the legal representative category. It would be good if the child had both parents, unfortunately sometimes without one, sometimes not having both, but legal counsel has to, because a legal representative protects his rights and interests until he has a business ability. Every average law school student knows that anywhere in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20261	Thank you. The word is Dragan Vesovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20262	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, I have now listened carefully to my colleague Martinovic, precisely because I am not a lawyer, I have asked the lawyers and then the lawyers have just referred me to Family Law where next to our parents we had an appointment as guardian. I think that's what Mr. Martinovic is talking about. Just in those cases, when God forbids both parents get hurt, so the child is taken over by his relatives, they become his guardians. What's in this, which I don't think is controversial, and I can see that it's caused a great controversy, has bothered us, is why through the already existing Family Law and already existing terms of parents and guardians, suddenly we're introducing a legal counsel? Why don't we leave what's already in the second law? That's what we wanted to ask you, Mr. Minister. You just gave one explanation that the lawyers told you it was a broader term. I agree that this is a broader concept, but if this is a broader concept, why in this Article 6, where the first part of our amendment has just been to change and to the other legislators instead of, or to the other legislators, because we have, in the proposal of the law, co-operation with parents point or other legal agents. We just wanted to get back what's in the Family Law and that term that's, as you say, wider, if it's wider and implies your parents why you're stressing your parents, and you're erasing the guardians, and now you're suddenly adding a legal representative. That's what I was just about to ask when we were talking about the first amendment, but because of this huge controversy that happened at the time and that here again tends to happen, I couldn't get it. So, I am not satisfied with that answer and we in the Serbian Dvori Movement obviously see that as a problem. Our views on LGBTI, now and I population are well known, and we are afraid that someone, just as Mr. Obradovic said, does not work behind your back that in some way, without doubting your own good will, is not trying to introduce to a small door something that will in some period have some negative consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20263	Alexander Martinovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20264	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The colleagues of the Dvora see in everything the government's bad intentions and see the poor intentions of the minister, and see in fact what it does not have. I'll tell you what I said and when I answered my word last time. He can't and shouldn't know everything, but don't brag about your ignorance. He's not a legal representative of a category that only exists in Family Law. I can tell you how many laws you want where the term is mentioned, i.e. the Syntagma legal representative, e.g. The Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights says the parent is a legal representative of a child, the Law on juvenile offenders says the parent is a legal representative of a child, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure. In all these laws, the parent is defined as the legal representative of the child. I don't know if you have children, but a child can't directly participate in any procedure conducted in front of a competent state authority. This must be done by his competent representative, and it is primarily a parent, if he has one, and if not, then it is someone else who either the parent has authorized or has been defined by law. Now I don't know how you've constructed from all of this that some Minister Sarčević is working behind his back, that someone wants to introduce gay marriages, that we're trying to destroy Serbia, etc. Well, we want to have more kids. We want to have more children, especially in underdeveloped areas. Do you see how much effort the Ministry of Education is making to keep the schools out of the same environments we have in the schools of one, two, or three students? At the time of the Democratic Party, it was happening, mass-discharged schools. Current Minister Sarcevic does not allow such a thing to happen. Here's Ljubisa Stoimirovic. Did people have a session of the Black Grass Education Committee? At the time of a former government, not one session of the Education Committee was held outside Belgrade City. It is now being held in Black grass and in many other municipalities that are underdeveloped, where we have few children, where we have few students. And then you say - you from SNS introduce homosexuality and gay marriages. What you're in, I'm sorry, may be a hard word, but it's political madness. You're blinded by political hatred. Since you cannot offer a solution to any economic problem, no social problem, no international problem that Serbia is facing, you are offering hate to Serbia. It's short breath policy. That policy can't produce any results. You tried that policy in 2016, it didn't work out. You tried that policy in 2017, you went even worse. As far as I'm concerned, keep going, but it's not good for you. When a man is obsessed with hate for someone, he sees things that don't exist objectively. If you think it's a good policy for you, keep going. We will continue to defend the government's policy with arguments, we will defend the policy of the Ministry of Education, which together with other resolution ministries is working to ensure that there are more children in Serbia, more students, more trained people who will be able to find work tomorrow, to live from their work and to support themselves and their family members from their work. There, it's in the shortest SNS policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20265	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20266	Based on the replica, Madam Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20267	You didn't get the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20268	All right, then on time. So, when we all remember that Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, five or six years ago, feverishly attacked Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic for the betrayal of the SRS, and today he is the most zealous promoter, then we can easily imagine that in a month or a year he is here proposing a law on the legalisation of homosexual marriages and the adoption of children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20269	Your Honor, I must remind you that you have received word by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20270	You just stopped me at a point, started with a point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20271	It's about homosexuals again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20272	If you'll excuse us, we simply have a problem, Madam Chairman, with what one is said before the election, and the other is done afterwards. One goes into the law, the other goes after it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20273	No, I can't let you take the session out of my hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20274	So I can't talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20275	By amendment, or how do we do it?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20276	Wait, I'm talking about the essence of the amendment, where we're asking it to be deleted -- legal agent, and to come back -- parent and guardian.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20277	It's not an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20278	How is that not an amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20279	It doesn't say.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20280	You don't follow the amendment. Don't follow what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20281	If anyone follows, I follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20282	You're just wasting my time and constantly using the time that belongs to the Devere MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20283	You've wasted my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20284	What's your time? Well, this isn't your assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20285	You've been harassing me here all day to talk about homosexual marriages that have nothing to do with the essence of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20286	How can they not? I'm talking about Amendment Dvora.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20287	You're really harassing me. Why would I have to listen to that all day?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20288	Wait, now you're not letting me talk about our amendment, is that the point?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20289	I'll give you your time back, if you'll talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20290	You won't let me. You interrupted me after the first sentence. Let me talk, and you'll see me talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20291	Come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20292	Thank you very much. Therefore, it cannot be trusted that the legislator of this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by the SNS, is not being prepared for the legalisation of homosexual marriages. Why? Because you said you wouldn't cut your pensions, so you cut it down, that you wouldn't continue negotiations in Brussels, so you continued, that you wouldn't betray Kosovo, so you betrayed... (Bosko Obradovic: System error, I presume? [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20293	What kind of system error is this? I talked to Arsic, I can't do everything. Come in, what else do you have to say about the amendment? Let me make myself crazy so you can talk about the amendment without saying anything about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20294	I understand that your German public Angela Merkel lost 10%... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20295	Read the Constitution a little bit, whom you can insult, whom you can't insult. A little school still needs to get into these benches, it's not enough just for someone to push you into parliament. It really doesn't make sense. I know that SNS MPs can repay you and that you... Take two minutes to figure out what you want to do today. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] I am open to the proposal to put an end to the agenda – the insults of foreign statesmen and citizens of Serbia who have a different sexual definition than most, but please fill in the form, sign, find MPs who will support you in this, and let us discuss this. Aren't you all right? [[Saša Radulovic: Is it a break or not?]] Would you like a glass of water? At this age, I can allow myself to do a roll in the break and roll back. [[Saša Radulovic: If it is a break, stop talking.]] (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure! There are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure in the break. [[after breaks]] Here you go. Srjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20297	Fortunately, there are other lawyers in this room besides the SNS, who are well aware of the legal regulations, and how they know, unlike the leading SNS lawyers, that the Constitution also prohibits many things, and that a lawyer cannot possibly be a legal advocate. Any lawyer would have to know that. So a lawyer can't be a legal representative, he can be a power of attorney, and he can't possibly be a guardian, or a legal representative. It's well known that a child can have parents or guardians, but it can't be a lawyer. So we repeat - why are you introducing into this law a terminology that is not familiar with the laws and regulations governing family life and family life? You can't give us any rational explanation for that. And that we have reason to doubt what lies beyond your intentions. As for Alternative for Germany, they treat Kosovo as the internal issue of Serbia, unlike your German partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20298	Ivan Manojlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20299	Thank you. Madam Chairman, the honourable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly sorry to see that today, even to the MPs of the opposition of many things in addition to the persistent explanation, they are not definitely clear, and it is sad that in the day we talk about school education, someone is giving himself the right, that the library itself reminds him only of the library of the age when Ephesus was a developed city. We all know exactly what was going on in Ephesus behind the library towers. Well, we have someone who proposes that amendment, but the only thing that matters to him is what's going to happen to those students, to really commit to what gets school, but simply, what happens behind legal counsel. We've been hearing about homosexualism here all day, and it's from someone who used to visit stripper men for women in 2016. So, the same man who's persistent all day is against homosexuality attending a male stripper, and he's probably learning from there what it is, and he's causing suspicion of what might happen, so we don't replace something with a term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20300	Thank you. Srjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20301	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. So, I called right after I finished my presentation. Article 106, paragraph 3, - during the speech of the Members of the People is not allowed to be dropped. There was so much marble in the O.R., Madam Chairman, that I could hardly hear myself, no MP was practically in his place, they spoke very loudly. So I'm asking you to put in order and continue the session in normal course, so that everyone can take their seats and there's no talking to each other. Now that's a lot better than when I was talking, but just for the record, for the sake of the public, I want it to get into the stenographic notes that there were really no elementary conditions during my address. Given the general marble in the O.R., you were simply obliged to warn the MPs and to provide normal conditions for the session. As I was saying, you didn't listen to me very carefully either, it was absolutely a mild mess in the O.R., as if at some informal gathering, it wasn't at all a working atmosphere. So, if I were to beg you, don't just let it happen that some other MP would not be in a situation like me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20302	What member? (Srjan Nogo: 106) But in the broadcast you only hear yourself, as you say to the public, and now to speak to fellow Members quietly, quietly, today I was saying, no one alive wanted to listen to me, so, my God. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20303	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on this amendment, I understand the fear of the promoters. I'm against a gay parade. I'm against a heterosexual parade if it's gonna hold. I understand the fear of those who have proposed this amendment, but I must say, if it hadn't been for a gay parade, they wouldn't have done ideology. They should be grateful, otherwise they wouldn't have seen parliament if they hadn't smoked around that gay parade. My one question to the promoter as to why this amendment should be rejected is next. They suggest not to be a legal representative and to be a guardian. My question is justifiably, who's going to check that the guardian in the meantime didn't become gay? Will they do it personally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20304	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20305	Article 6 has the title – Quality of education and education. Then in the first sentence it says – the elements of the quality of education and education in the Republic of Serbia are and are then listed in fourteen points several elements of quality. What we wanted to do with our amendment is we wanted to work out two of these 14 a little bit more detail, because we think that this is how they're listed and how they're defined. First, it is quite different from the members before and after, who are very detailedly elaborated. And this is just the way they're listed, and let's say point 12 says, one of the elements of quality is the management system. As it's written to us, it doesn't mean much to us because every management system, or management, we can call the system and say, well, now we're going to measure quality. What we have proposed with our amendment is for this to change -- a system of democratic and responsible governance. Let's define how, what do we expect from that management? Who and how to implement it means, democratic and responsible, to be accountable to whoever chooses those who will manage in the education system. No wonder, looking at government policy and this ministry and behavior why this isn't accepted. So, this whole law is just this democratic and responsible management being wiped out of the law. So all management is put into the hands of the minister. The minister and the ministry are the ones he chooses the directors. The minister will allegedly be responsible for business and quality of education, but in practice we will have the consequences that quality, it is almost clear from everything we have seen in the previous five years and more, that education as well as various other spheres, where under this label of efficient, centralised management we will solve problems. It's just that the problems have just doubled many times. Unfortunately, the adoption of such legal solutions will result in us having neither democratic nor responsible management. Also, point 14. The law says – the relevant material financial resources. Our proposal was – the appropriate material and financial resources guaranteeing autonomy and constitutional education and education, investment in development of education and continuous raising of quality of education. So we wanted to define what these are objectives we want to achieve by investing certain material and financial resources. As it is stated, it means nothing like this whole member that I think means nothing. See Articles 7, 8 before this they are very extensive and elaborate on every topic discussed. And here it is in one sentence at 12 dots there are some elements of quality. This is someone who was probably working in the preparation of this law on a project, prescribed by some law that exists in a country. It seems nice that there are quality elements here doesn't mean anything. This adopted member without, and it was certainly necessary behind each of these points to elaborate more closely and I am not surprised, unfortunately, that no amendment that goes in this direction by the MPs has accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20306	The word is Ljubiša Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20307	Dear colleagues and colleagues, well, I am in principle not to accept this proposal. Why? If we wanted to spread all of these elements that the ministry cited, then we could have made one complete book, not to mention, some larger professional work. I've never met the term democratic governance in system theory or management science. The only thing we had from this previous period was a period where there was some democratic governance, so we saw how it affected Serbia and the people of Serbia. That's why I don't think we should change anything here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20308	The 6th Amendment was submitted by LJupka Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20309	Thank you. It is a Article 6 which refers to the quality of education and among these elements listed here, and in terms of quality, I have proposed to add – inclusiveness and availability of education. The amendment was rejected on the grounds that it was not accepted, because the proposed quality element was included as a general principle that the education system must provide for everyone. Yeah, it's going through somewhere in other members, but we should know and we need to be aware that the availability of education is different sensitive groups of children and inclusiveness, one of the key elements for quality measurement. Because when a teacher in a classroom adjusts teaching to children with developmental difficulties in terms of visualisation or audio content, it can only benefit other students further. I don't really know who's bothered with talking about the term – inclusion and inclusive education. I believe that in many schools, I know that in many schools, when IOPs are to be done and pedagogists say – so give the child a two, don't be harassed, don't judge what can't be done, break that myth once and for all, that inclusive education means only supporting children who have difficulty. Inclusive education, by definition, is adapted to individual needs and opportunities of children, which includes children who are gifted. However, I believe that there are great resistances and in the spirit of what you said, that you will measure with what space you have and what equipment there is, you should think very much about the equipment of the so-called. School for education of students and children with developmental difficulties, which are equipped as some royal palaces, where there are very few children, where the quality of education is extremely low and that these schools should be opened for all children and practically reformed and abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20310	Thank you. Sasa Radulovic submitted an amendment that was added to article 6a after article 6. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20311	Thank you. Article 6a again speaks of education as the right of every child and says that the Republic of Serbia should have its children from the budget, all primary and secondary school students to obtain textbooks. Just like all the children of our diaspora who have left the country and lived, say in the United States, Canada, in EU countries, that's where the country gets textbooks. These questions always ask the question, is it possible to pay? We've made one reckoning that clearly says that for 560,000 pupils in primary schools and 260,000 pupils in secondary schools, the total cost of obtaining all textbooks costs 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, 0.23. That's twice as much as the subsidies that Er-Serbia gets. Therefore, since this is possible, and it is a great burden for all parents in Serbia, since the average household income is only 57,000 dinars, the entire household. So not one member but the whole household, then it's quite clear that almost all the households in Serbia have a huge problem getting textbooks, because their price per child from 10 to 17,000 dinars, so if someone has two children or three children, it's practically impossible to undertake. People have to take loans to buy children books. So, the budget can carry this, it's simple to pay textbooks for all the kids, so it's completely incomprehensible to refuse this amendment. I will continue to talk about him because this is extremely important for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So for five years, this power is there and this one before it, this problem can simply be solved, children get textbooks to use, passed on from generation to generation. The costs are low, and the benefit for all Serbian citizens is very high and we do not have this right now and I propose that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20312	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they're strange bills and they're odd numbers when they're represented by Mr. Sasa Radulovic. I wonder if he meant the parents of children in Serbia, if he meant textbooks and how parents would get them, when he was a bankruptcy manager, for example. in the social enterprise, the first Serbian sugar factory "Dimitrija Tucovic 1898" in Belgrade? At the same time, when he was a confidant in the process of forcing the liquidation of the social enterprise, the factories put on the “Moda” Kovacica in liquidation. All at the same time. When he was a confidant in the emergency winding-up procedure of the DPP "Lune Milovanovic" Bavanište, did he mean the parents of children and textbooks when he was a trustee of the bankruptcy manager in the bankruptcy process of the social company shoe factory "Moda" Debeljač, when he was a trustee in the company, or when he was a bankruptcy manager in the construction company "New highway" in bankruptcy from Belgrade, at the same time and when he was, as a bankruptcy manager, as a trustee of the Privatisation Agency, as a forced liquidator, I concluded with myself contracts on the provision of accounting services. So we're interested in how many free textbooks could be shared to children today in Serbia if that money hadn't gone to his account and to the expense of his firm, at the time when the bookkeeping contract was being concluded with itself? How many textbooks could be bought, I'd like to know and we at SNS would like to know that, for example. No contract was concluded on 28 January 2014 between the Belgrade beer industry, malt and non-alcoholic beverages in restructuring and Pronet, represented by President Sandra Savanović Stevanovic, where consulting services are only 30%, which is a commission, paid 690,000 dinars. So BIP pays 30% of consulting services of 690,000 dinars in restructuring. Then Mr. Sasa Radulovic shows up and says, you know, in well-developed countries like the United States, like Canada, you have one free set of textbooks at school, you have another free set of textbooks at home, children don't have to carry heavy bags, they don't have to write homework. Great. Whether in America, Canada, Finland, whether in Norway, anywhere, in a well-organised mondialist country, such things were possible that man was at the same time in several, 14 or 15 enterprises, which the bankruptcy manager, which forced the liquidator, in all these companies concluded the contract with himself and then allowed to conclude one such contract where only an advance for the provision of consulting services was 690,000 dinars. If something like this is possible in America, Canada, Finland, excellent, but I don't think Mr. Sasa Radulovic knows it well. It was only possible in Serbia before the SNS came to power. As a result of all this, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, Sasa Radulovic, has practically kicked out of all the bankruptcy procedures he has conducted, as he was on time in December 2013, launched from the Serbian government, because he intended to complete the Serbian economy of bankruptcy. Therefore, Mr. Sarčević, our well-intentioned advice is to you next, do not accept any amendments to Saša Radulovic, because as he wanted to drive Serbia's economy into bankruptcy, so would the Serbian education system, all by system – everything is free. That's how he was free of charge, but it was free of charge and how expensive it cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20314	Sasa Radulovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20315	In the absence of arguments, as usual, we go towards untrueness, to answer the question of MPs, we could not buy a single textbook, since I never stole anything in my life. Otherwise, in those bankruptcys you mention, there I sent members of the SNS to prison, so many of them, start with "Mode", so Lunet Milovanovic, and I'm proud of that, because they were thieves without a match and they were millions of dinars, or millions of euros in some major businesses, and they ended up in prison for protecting the interests of the creditors. This whole play here only lasts for one thing, you don't have an answer to the question, you're full of words, because if I had done one of those things, I'd have been processed by now, so since you can't start it, no procedure, all you can do here is talk. And you're just talking. But to get back to this, we're done talking. You have here that you can get all the textbooks for all the kids in primary and secondary schools. It's simple, there's enough money in the budget. It can be paid. None of those lies are gonna get us off the subject. Citizens need to know that this is all used to get off the main topic, which is – it is possible to get all textbooks for all children, and gentlemen from SNS inventions, by lying try to turn away from that topic. And the topic is to get all the textbooks, it costs twice as much as the subsidies "ER Serbia". It costs ten times less than the losses made by SNS and their prime minister in the period 2014-2015 in Želizara Smederevo. Ten times less. Speaking of Belgrade on water, they donated a billion euros in land. A billion euros. Well, that's 50 years from now to pay for everything we need. Therefore, if we talk about the robbery – whoever robs Serbia is SNS, and we will not run from the essence. textbooks for all children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20316	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, October 25, 2013. Here, Mr. Radulovic, are you with the director of ER Serbia, Danet Kondic? Here, let all the MPs see. The same you, then Minister of Business Mrs Gojkovic, look, Mr Sasa Radulovic is photographed with Mr Kondic in front of the design of the new plane "ER Serbia". It's a "Erbas", I don't understand a lot of planes, so I can't tell you the mark, it's the same Mr. Sasa Radulovic, who is now giving us a lecture on the functioning of "ER Serbia". As for the evidence, here's your proof. The Privatisation Agency agreed with Saša Radulovic that she concluded with herself, i.e. with the company E Business Service, 28.12.2009 and 25.11.2009, again as a forced liquidator of the "Moda Kovačica" shoe factory, and on 25.November 2009, be careful, literally the same day, that Saša Radulović, as a forced liquidator, concluded a contract with the company "E business service" in the process of forced liquidation of DP "Lune Milovanovic" Bavanište, so, 19.02.2010, all during the rule of the former regime of the Democratic Party to conclude the contract with itself, i.e. with his own company, accounting agency "E business service", on 19 February 2010, in the process of bankruptcy of the social company "Moda" Debeca. So, all the contracts from 2009, 2010, when Sasa Radulovic, as a bankruptcy manager, concluded contracts with his own firm, i.e. an accounting agency, as a forced liquidator. Now, when you draw the line, then you can calculate how many free textbooks could be distributed to parents today in Serbia, if Serbia had not been hit by an elementary, political accident called Sasa Radulovic, Bojan Pajtic. (The People's MPs of the MP group get plenty of money from the site – Replica. ) Here's how nervous they are, getting, screaming, etc. Their time has long passed, for Serbia's sake.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20318	Time, please. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20319	Thank you. Continuing, false. First of all, I've never signed anything with myself. This is a contract with the office that's a bankrupt manager. That's what I've talked about many times. Ladies and gentlemen, it is 5,000 dinars for accounting services provided by children who were employed in the office, with the approval of the Court, the privatisation agency of all other institutions. This is SNS manners, they wave some papers, they talk about things that have nothing to do with facts and accuse. That won't get us off the main topic. To repeat, the main topic is to get textbooks for all children. These lies about making a deal won't change this. To repeat, it is important for citizens to get all textbooks for all children of primary and secondary schools, as the peers of our young people who escaped from Serbia from such a government get, in countries where they moved, America, Canada, the EU, get textbooks there, for all children are paid out of the budget. All this talk is trying to get off the subject. The Serbian Progressive Party, if it had something against me, would have already prosecuted me. As for "ER Serbia", of course I speak to the director as a minister, but I told the director - you won't get a subsidy. You have to make a list of the assets, an estimate of the value of the assets. They didn't do any of that, so we suspended all their subsidies. To wave these things, at a time when they voted for my draft budget law, where I abolished all the subsidies telling you enough about them, vote on the bells. To go back, get your children textbooks, that's 0.2% – 0.3% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's half of your "ER Serbia" subsidy. Well, if you're wondering why you're burdening your budget with huge textbook prices, then you should look back at SNS, which is not ready to do one thing like this, which is in the interest of all parents to accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20320	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20321	I have already said, it might be possible at this time to provide free textbooks that Serbia has not been affected by the basic political disaster in the image of Sasa Radulovic, Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic, and that this country has not been robbed until "naked skin" and left the budget completely blank. Mr. Radulovic, I have shown you the solutions that the Agency for Privatisation from 2009 and 2010, I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, that you are with yourself, or with the Bookkeeping Agency, which in one half was owned by your own, and in the other half owned by your wife, you are concluding contracts on the provision of bookkeeping services in companies where you were either a bankruptcy manager, or you were a confidant of the Privatisation Agency, or you were in the capacity of someone who was conducting an emergency liquidation procedure. In all three properties you received the consent of the Privatisation Agency from 2009 and 2010, to conclude contracts with yourself, in figures that are approximate to those that you state today, which relate to the purchase of free textbooks. You've hidden the property so you can't see it. Keep going. How many textbooks could be bought if you did not transfer in 2016 elections as the Citizens' Association to the Citizens' Group "Enough" fictitious jobs of nearly 31 million dinars? That's what your former councilman Branko Klanschek said, who said the Citizens' Association was transferring to the Citizens' Group "Enough was enough" the budget they received for the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20322	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20323	So when the line is drawn, the question is how many textbooks could be bought that Sasa Radulovic did not steal them. (The People's MPs of the "Enough Enough" group are getting from place to place – time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20324	Don't yell at me. Thank you. So you learn not to yell at the chairman. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does Branka Stamenkovic want the word? So you don't want the amendment. My question is clear. So we're at school. Does the amendment make him want a word? (No) Thank you. Now, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20325	You're rude. I answered, I was in the system. Don't do your job right. You pretend to be ignorant, you point your car and water at your own waterway. I don't know how you can look yourself in the mirror. I'd be embarrassed if I were like you for one minute. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20326	Repeat, I didn't hear you. Your colleagues were clapping.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20327	A colleague of Radulovic responded for the replica. Article 104 has the right to replication. You can't always exchanges, that at least they're arguments, but insults that come from the SNS, that you end up being their last. Especially because they're false. You must give the man a replica and the right to respond to baseless attacks. There's no point in what you're doing. Pretend you don't see baseless attacks, there's no point in what you're doing, pretend you don't see the Rules of Procedure, pretend you don't see it, don't hear it, and when it yells at you to hear it, you accuse someone of yelling at you. No, you're just pretending you don't see it. You won't turn on the microphone and what else we have left to attract your precious attention. Please call your senses and start running this session according to the Rules of Procedure. It's a shame how you do this. Second, I answered the amendment. It's not true that I didn't. I was in the system. You shut me out.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20328	Thank you very much. Please read Article 104(3), so we are happy to discuss the next term. When you learn the Rules of Procedure, you speak of insults to me and your character and your deed, and I don't. I'll call my wits, sure, don't worry about it. Maybe you'll call my mind and your behavior, it's not a problem. I can handle anything. It's really no big deal. We'll vote, of course I don't know what, but we'll vote. Is it true that you hold hands before you enter the O.R.? (Saša Radulovic: Shame on you. Is it a problem that I asked? As president, I should know what MPs do. I've heard that fact so I can understand what you're trying to say, when and why you insult me. I need to know everything. That's it. Parliamentarians Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic submitted to the 7th amendment in the same text. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20329	For textbooks, this would be enough if these bankruptcy managers hadn't stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20330	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20331	I'm giving up my explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20332	Thank you. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20333	Thank you, President. We propose to add point 1a, which speaks of the timely, quality and efficient education of the population of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the stated or recognised developmental definitions towards the sustainability of meeting the educational needs of every resident of the Republic of Serbia throughout its life and to add points 1b and 4a which are the basic basis of life and development of each individual, society and state is based on knowledge and full threat to the needs, interests, characteristics of those who learn, therefore, students, children and adults and now I ask you why you, Mr. Sarčević, do not want our population to be timely, quality and efficient in education, to be in accordance with the demonstrated or recognised various definitions, etc., to be fully esteemed of their needs, interest and characteristics and to be the basic basis of life and development of each individual, society and state? It's very unusual that you don't want education to meet all these goals. It's not something we invented. It's something that says in the Education Development Strategy by 2020, and the only possibility we can think of is why you don't want it because you don't need citizens who think, and you're still telling us in an explanation that the amendment isn't accepted because the solution in the bill is more comprehensive. Mr. Charcevic, we're not throwing out any of what you've put in here, but we're adding three new points. Please, how can it be more comprehensive where there's less than where there's more? Either you don't understand what it means to be more involved, or someone cheated on you while writing these arguments?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20334	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? (No) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ( ) The MPs of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20335	Thank you very much. Article 7 defines the general principles of education and education. There are 10 of them with 10 more ways of paying special attention to something. We have added here something that is obviously missing not only in this text, but also in life, which is more important, but in the text, which is that, in Article 7 paragraph 7 of point 7) is added behind the words "directors and secretaries" to "their academic integrity", the ministers, so that point 7) reads – competence and professional ethics that implies high-level teachers, educators, professional associates, directors and secretaries, their academic integrity, permanent professional development, high level of professional responsibility and ethics. Many times my efforts have been repeated to put such a formula in laws everywhere where it can find its proper place and this is one good place in this law. In the proposal for a law on higher education, where we proposed an amendment a year and a half ago, the government's response was that the government would accept it, but in the amendments to the Law on Higher Education and the basics of the education and education system would install that instrument. However, this did not happen, so I, with good intentions, not only towards you, but according to what this law should bring to the Serbian academic and general public, suggest that you accept this amendment that will improve the text, we certainly agree on it, and create conditions for us not to be the state of forger of diplomacy and doctorate from the former president of the state, the current minister, mayor and other characters represented as some of the representatives of the current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-25-0.u20336	Thank you. It's 6:00. I think we've done a lot of work. We'll continue the session and discuss the amendments tomorrow morning at 10:00. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 6:00 p.m.]] Dear MPs, we continue our work. Please insert your identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System in order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R. According to my records, I have 85 MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 104 MPs are present in the hall. It's Tuesday, it's questions. Does anyone want to exercise their right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and ask a question or seek an explanation? Here's a word from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
