ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23941	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Predrag Jelenkovic. We continue the search in detail of the proposal for a law on dual education. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Mladen Sarcevic, as well as his associates. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanović and Vjerica Rade, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlović, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23942	Ladies and gentlemen, as we hear, we are continuing to amend the draft law on dual education. It is this Article 3 whose removal we have proposed that perhaps best shows the position of the SRS and our reasons why we believe that this law should not be passed and that it should not exist in the legal traffic of the Republic of Serbia. That's why our amendments are conceived by proposing that every member of the bill be deleted. I would like today, unlike yesterday, to have no insults or MPs or amendments like this, because there is no other way, according to the Rules of Procedure that we are working on, that one parliamentary group should express its position when it wishes and when it thinks that a certain law should not be passed, but that it should be proposed to delete each of the proposed members. Even if we didn't have that attitude, this Article 3, which otherwise speaks of the principles of dual education, would not be good. There are a few interesting things here that can't actually represent a legal provision, which are more so little chats about certain conditions and principles of dual education, and that's never good for the law. As defined, let's say, in point 4 of point 1, one of the principles of dual education is ethics, respect for personality, dignity of students and achievement of education goals. This doesn't mean anything. This is a nice wish, a nice recommendation, one where possibly a student is employed, or who he works for in dual education, this does not have to be respected because he will not suffer any sanctions if he behaves unethically. You say – the principle is quality assurance, coordination and setting standards at all levels and monitoring the efficiency of dual education. This is also just some kind of more definition than something that can be defined by law, especially something that the law can sanction, too generally, and doesn't mean anything at all. What's career leadership and employability? Development, you say, career management skills and providing greater opportunities for employment. What kind of career are you talking about, I'm sorry, in the context of dual education? Or, say, say, lifelong learning. You know, if someone finishes a craft tailoring, auto-mechanical, hairdressing, etc., of course, they have to be educated their whole life, to learn new techniques, technologies, models, etc. If he doesn't do it, he won't be able to work in that possible shop he's opening. Right of choice. You say this law provides freedom of choice of profession and educational profile within established criteria. We think the opposite. I will repeat once again that the SRS's position that the law is now a proposal, and I guess the law on dual education is actually just one colourful lie, something that will attract some young people, students, to enroll in some of the trades, to completely neglect their interest in a higher or higher degree education, because this is an opportunity where they see a dinar coming quickly. You didn't answer us, Minister, because the law doesn't say it, or how much money it might be that will eventually get those kids who start working with some employer. You also did not answer our question whether these children would be paid contributions to pension and disability insurance. You didn't even answer the question of what would happen if, God forbid, one of those children in this business and in this business had an accident, so, God forbid, he stays disabled for the rest of his life. Who's going to take care of him and how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23943	Thank you. The word has a Marinika Tepic, a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23944	Thank you, President. I would like to tell Mr. Minister, as well as my fellow Members of the Government, you are free of all propaganda and promotions and all praises at the expense of this law on dual education when everyone, Mr. Minister, knows what this is about and knows that this law is a way to legalise child labour as the cheapest workforce in the Republic of Serbia. That's what high-school professors who I've talked to in preparation for this law and who are sick of being made by this law an accomplice on your Sunday, and they can't tell you that because they're afraid of taking revenge and losing their jobs, which is usually the trademark of the SNS for all state institutions. It is therefore good that there are MPs of the opposition who will bring their voice to the National Assembly. They also well note that in article 3 in the last position you raise to the level of the institution the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and therefore say that they already Colloquially call you, or Alexander Vukic, the progenitor of this idea, the mother of this law, the Chamber of Commerce – the father of this law, and they are actually a servant who should serve on the well-being of Mom and Dad, and they are extremely scrupulous about it. Therefore, we ask from the Independent Members' Club to delete this member, as well as everyone else in this law, and to draw further attention that you no longer call for either Switzerland or Austria or Germany, as positive examples for dual education, because there the students are well paid for this work, they are paid contributions and allowed union association when they work in dual education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23945	You've wasted your time. Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23946	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest not to accept this amendment from that argument that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has already delivered to us, which we talked about yesterday, but also for the reasons that we just heard in the oral part of the reasoning that comes in favor of this amendment, which was presented by the previous speaker. In addition to complete untruths, other than the projection she had just presented of some kind of revenge, revenge and loss of jobs, it is probably a projection that is due to what her party or her party did while they exercised power in action, and what she is projecting on the SNS today, which has nothing to do with the truth. But it's already manners, manners and previous payphones, but also colleagues sitting next to her, who yesterday also spoke in the light of their amendment about everything that has nothing to do with this law or the dual education, or the amendment, but we've listened to some untruths here. So we listened to some examples of completely missed topics about JAT technique, about how the JAT technique allegedly collapses, etc. Which, of course, is not true. So JAT technology's leadership inherited huge debts and minuses, and I have to say it because of the citizens, although it has no direct connection to the subject, but the previous speaker was very maliciously talking about the state of JAT technique. They left us with these debts, and debts and losses and minuses, a loan of five million euros, which we are paying off, which the current management is paying off, so 1,200 employees, a catastrophicly poorly maintained state of infrastructure, all of our leadership is fixing today, all the damage you've left behind. Erbas concluded a contract with JAT technique, a contract for so-called. basic maintenance, who's in the topic knows what I'm talking about. Don't talk...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23947	Time. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. You've been told nothing by Balsha. Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23948	Thank you. I am sorry that the previous speaker focused his exposure on those who are not really the object of this law, which is the educational frame. We are here all the time trying to draw attention to child abuse and what it is to blur the public's eyes by promoting dual education as a discovery, as a completely innovative and reformative idea in favour of this society, and in fact this time, as I said, is legalizing child labour as the cheapest workforce. I will add to this information, given that the time has elapsed before me, that when you call on Mr. Ministers to Switzerland, Germany, Austria, as well as a colleague of the previous speaker who spoke quite often yesterday, then you should say that students working in these countries on the principle of dual education have regulated contributions, so they are recognised in the tax system, have the right to union association, therefore for additional assistance to protect their rights to work, which is not only not only in this law, but union organisations are deleted from the Law on Medium Education, where there should also be a debate, but I doubt that we will reach that law. It is also very important to say that when preparing this law, no representative unions were consulted at all, nor the Union of Employers of Serbia, and representative unions have drawn attention in the last days precisely to the fact that accession to the Minister does not mean their consent and does not mean that they are consulted because a common photo implies an agreement and insisted that their presence in contact with you is not misused as an interpretation of consent.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23949	Time. From the promoter, Nenad Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23950	Thank you. So, we have submitted this amendment because we believe that such a concept and such principles established in the Dual Education Act are not good and will not lead to our children being more easily employed in the future. We believe that the fact that only declares itself in this article, which is that dual education is based on the obligation of all to manage the best interests of students to deny it to this member himself, where a school and employer partnership is established as the first principle. All the time in this law is the employer in the first place. A Chamber of Commerce is being introduced to protect the interests of employers, because employers are those who are joined in the Chamber of Commerce, not protecting the interests of students and not protecting the interests of the citizens of this country. So this concept of dual education based on these principles leads exclusively to helping the interest of large-scale capital and to help the interest of foreign investors who come to Serbia precisely because it is a cheap workforce, they open factories to get cheap labour, and now it's not enough, but it needs to be even cheaper. The minimum cost of working in this country is that you have a monthly salary of 23, 24 thousand dinars. Now these children about 15 to 18 years should work 30% less and no contributions should be paid, as counterpart Tepic says. So, the interest of large capital, the interest of those who have factories in this country is to create dual education in Serbia. It's not the student's interest, it's not the interest of our citizens and our country. We have an interest in coming here companies that will employ those who have knowledge, and that knowledge can be acquired not in dual education but only in high school or college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23951	The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23952	To be clear, the primary goal of dual education is a professional and educational worker. So, the student is present in businesses, and he will be present in school workshops for the purpose of becoming a good and professional master, not for profit. That profit you're talking about, the cheap workforce, it's maximum indiscriminateness. So it's all about getting a professional and educational worker, and that's what students and students in that chain are interested in, in this process, the maximum protection of schools, or the Ministry. The school will parallel to the conditions that will exist outside the school create conditions that exist at school. Part of this practical process and practical education will also be at school. So let's not talk about compensation, not about employers, not about the workforce, but about education and education, because this is about education and education and the goal of getting a professional and educational worker who will tomorrow be appreciated and sought on the labour market and decide on his fate and his ability to be private and to start his own company. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23953	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23954	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I suggest that the amendment be not accepted because a member indicates that dual education is based on the obligation of all participants to handle the best interests of students. So the involvement not only of the Ministry of Education but of local self-government. How important it is to involve units of local self-government in the education system can best through the example of my municipality to show. The municipality of Kursumli headed by the SNS and how it is involved in the education system and how it helps and stimulates students. Today, the municipality of Kursumli scholarships 410 secondary school students and 269 students. We have a total of 679 scholarship students, which is incomparably more than the head of the former government where there were only five scholarship students. The municipality of Kursumli, headed by the SNS today, is spending 25 million dinars on an annual level for student and student scholarships and awards, and in 2007, it was only 250 thousand dinars. Today, there are hundreds of times more and it says that education is being stimulated today than before. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23955	The word is Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23956	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have an excellent law ahead of us. We who come from local backgrounds know that best. The environments that are defined for peacemaking all currently indicate that this law is more than necessary. We have a lack of quality young labour on the market, people in Novi Pazar and all privates are practically complaining that they don't have quality labour, and I don't see why there are so many hard words, so many unwitting, bad suggestions, so to speak, there are oppositions. This is a necessity that really leads Serbia into an equal society of opportunities. If we're talking about principles, I don't know what principle here can get in the way. These principles are a motivational factor for all students. Finally, one of the principles is the right to choose, freedom of choice for the interest of education profile. So I think there's an excellent law ahead of us, that the amendment should be rejected in any case, and that the law as it contributes to better economic development, but also better efficiency and knowledge of students. Practical knowledge needs people most, and we know it best who come from natural sciences. For example, we doctors without practical knowledge, which we obtained at the clinics themselves, our knowledge that we learned and received from the textbooks by the system of el cathedrals, would be absolutely inapplicable. So I think I need from natural sciences to be, above all, motors to adopt a law like this. Dual education is indeed progress and an opportunity that gives our young people the opportunity to education and acquire real skills in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23957	The word has the People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23958	Dear Mr. Minister, we of the SNS believe that the law is extremely good and that all proposed amendments, by type of broken record - are deleted, should be rejected. Mr. Minister, there are few individuals who can be educated, just to gain a certain level of education without need and ambition to acquire knowledge materialize through work in the profession they have been educated for. The vast majority of young people are educated with the intention of getting a proper job in the profession tomorrow after completing their education, to engage in social and economic flows, and to provide their own and their family with existence and prosperity. Given that the economy today is a very dynamic area, I'll say for Nis and Nisovsky County, a large number of factories and new jobs are open. Also, another four new factories with 7,000 new jobs are planned in the coming period. So, from day to day, there is a need for new interests and new educational profiles, but that employers are looking for a professional frame that will immediately become involved in the process of work, which this law allows. In this way we will overcome the practice so far, that young people who find the right job spend quite a bit of time getting used to the workplace and learning to work. So I think a combination of theoretical knowledge and adequate professional practice is a good combination that has produced good results in other countries and environments, so I don't see why it wouldn't be that way with us. I mention in Nis an example of the "Nikola Tesla" Electrical School, which has very good co-operation with eight mainly domestic companies, where students acquire different competences through several modules they study, it was previously called a cooperative model, and now it is a model with elements of dual education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23959	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23960	Dear colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, we are once again entering a trap that is specific to us. Education is not a process to be led by one party, it is a process that is in the interests of the entire state and the whole society. I can commend what the Ministry of Education has done, which is the strength to go into one of these ventures. But I can't understand a fellow who comes from the side of the government immediately condemns it. I can point out one fact: I've recently been in company with a group of people dealing with construction and their big problem is that there are not enough quality masters in Serbia. I even heard on TV the other day that we were importing armymen from Albania to work here certain jobs for which we do not have professional and quality labour. In Crno Trava, there was a school that was famous throughout Yugoslavia as a construction school that trained builders for all possible occupations. Today, when you get up there, you'll see that there's barely one department that deals with construction, but another profession is now their primary profession. I'd like to see the ministry and the local government of Black Treva who promised them that they would, and in some ways worse, make one department that would train these young people to deal with trades, which we're going to need very much in the future. It won't be long, we'll hit our heads and see that we don't have quality and professional people at that level, who will be able to do the jobs that are necessary for every country. Well said colleague Jokic, we need professional workers, people who will deal with the profession. I can tell from my example how much easier it was for me to figure out an internal combustion engine when I came to the workshop after the theoretical part where that engine was cut up and saw what it looked like. Now, so these young people in their future dual occupation will be able to deal with what they need to do in practice in a more visible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23961	The word is made by MP Nikola Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23962	This amendment should not be accepted because it requires the removal of a member of the law which constitutes the essence of this law. Contrary to the arguments of the amendments and the lack of dual education, which forms part of secondary vocational education, we have brought young people into a position to become a cheap workforce. It is this dual education that enables the modernisation and creation of new profiles that are consistent with modern technical and technological development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23963	Lawmakers Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23964	The President-in-Office, since the law on dual education initiated by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, and implemented by Minister Mladen Sarcevic, has been the biggest teaching-reform step in the field of education and education for the past 14 years, and is an integral part of Serbia's modernisation, giving up the interpretation of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23965	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment speaks of the best interests of students. I grew up and studied at a time when people spoke – there is a gold craft. After that came the time where they said – they should be educated without doing anything. He says, "He's doing well, he's getting a good job, he's doing nothing." This has come to our heads in a certain way, and now we need to go back to what – the gold trade, because the craft and that kind of knowledge is the wealth that the former student is following everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23967	Thank you. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the name above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ciric, in fact all members of the DS parliamentary group. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23968	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 4, is a very important member of this law on dual education and everything that stands in what you call the goals of dual education is an amazing picture of your arrogance. So, the goals of dual education and what you've set here are completely contradictory of everything that stands in this law. It is much more important and contradictory of reality, it is contradictory of intentions, it is contradictory of the message you send to young students and their parents, it is contradictory of your understanding of how important education is and what are the chances that these interests are for the future. When you say here in Article 4, that the objectives of dual education are to provide conditions for acquisition, development and development of competences in line with labour market needs, I would ask you, not only with documents with strategies that the biggest experts in Serbia have done, but also with strategies in Europe, that it is precisely working on that whole learning is a lifelong learning, that learning is learning learning, and that is what my people used to say when we spoke in principle, it is not only that everyone should spend their whole life learning, but that countries and responsible governments are trying to leave young people as long as possible in the education system and to develop competences that can be competitive, which can match, which correspond to the modern world. These are new occupations, it's meeting the future, not this irresponsible view of the past. So, no connection to the goal you set here has anything to do with what's written in the law. When you talk about contributing to strengthening the competitiveness of the economy in Serbia and that these are the objectives of this law relating to education and economy, we do not have an economy that can support something like this, and we have an even less stable economy that can predict jobs over the next ten years. So, quite amazing what is particularly important, Mr. Minister, I ask you to answer a few questions in Article 4. You say that the objectives of the Law on Dual Education, among other things, are to develop innovation and creativity and each individual for his professional career development. You chose the priority and biggest problem in education in 2017 in Serbia to be dual education. So, not the problems that education suffers, not the need to reform high school, but the need to modernise education, but the dual education priority. Dual education is the most important issue when we talk about the future, and you say it will develop the innovation and creativity of children who will go to dual education, which, in addition to having less knowledge to learn in school, will work on some machines that will make time old-fashioned. What is particularly important and what I would ask you to comment on, to say that the objectives of the dual education law are, among other things, to develop the ability to self-evaluate and express your own opinion. So you're expressing your own opinion. The goal of dual education is that a child aged 15 and 16, a student, and they are rightly my colleagues, you know, the abuse of the position where a child is located, the fact that it will result in compensation that is embarrassing, thus depriving himself of a chance that at that moment may not even recognize that he is ready, capable, motivated, ambitious to continue his education and that he will be after some kind of strog, as he says in a colloquial way, although it is certainly not exclusive of the interests that are prescribed by these, that he will express, that he will strengthen freedom of expression, by being a cheap workforce, by teaching him to keep quiet and suffer conditions that are not civilised, are not worthy of anyone, let alone a child. It's something that's totally amazing. The goals set are wrong. The objectives set do not correspond with the members of the law that follows and you are obliged to explain and respond to these remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23969	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23970	I don't know if you noticed in the opening debate that we redefined high school and that high school reform is under way. All the high schools in Serbia participated. So we're raising the selectivity in high school and high school to 40% with a huge delay compared to the strategy plan. So that's where you absolutely work on all fronts. Again, I'll repeat, we're talking about the part of secondary vocational education that makes up 7.5% and I don't see the need at all, I haven't recorded it, but a dozen times the same phrase is repeated -- cheap labour. I spent a lot of time talking to employers and according to the research we've done, they need professional labour, not cheap. When we talk about whether our economy is strong for dual, it is. The model we're working on is a national model, not as hard as German. That's where we don't go to the internship now, all those other privileges, so there won't be a child's working relationship. So, will it mature for a while, so the public will be someone to give the court. We'll see which way the story develops. The truth is, there's also a number of low-cost companies coming in, but there's serious companies coming in. The research centre in Novi Sad, which opened recently, is a very one development company on the continent. What we said was important for you to know, it's not only three-step, it's four-year-olds, but it's also four-year-olds, right now, there are profiles that are called Internet content design technicians, it takes four years; mechanic mechatronics, four years; operator on CNC machines and tourist technicians.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23971	Thank you. The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23972	Thank you. Dear President, at first I would like to apologize to the Minister for reporting after him, but I will refer to the presentation of a colleague who was a previous speaker. Arrogance and contradiction is when you ruin generations of young people, and then you submit to the amendment and say you're not about to let generations of future students be ruined because of someone's whim. I propose that this amendment is not accepted because it requires the removal of Article 4 which sets out the objectives of dual education, i.e. Article 4 is the basis of this law and cannot be deleted. One of the objectives set out in Article 4 is to provide employment conditions for completion of secondary education and this objective will certainly be achieved through the adoption of a dual education law. Dual education gives young people a chance to become professionals, to become easily employable, to become competitive on the labour market. Evidence of this is an example of the good practice of the City of Leskovec and the Municipality of Vlasotince, carried out by the pilot project of getting acquainted with dual education since 2013. The German company Falke has received four generations of young people who, of course, applied after high school and wanted to get those jobs. I say, who applied and wanted to get jobs because a certain percentage of these young people started their own businesses. This is why the adoption of the Law on Dual Education is important, for it encourages first and foremost the entrepreneurial spirit of young people. Also, in "Autostop" in Leskovac, three generations of students who learned through work gained knowledge gained their jobs. The company Gruner in Vlasotanica, which opened a new plant just two weeks ago and will open new jobs by 2022, where young people from the technical school in Vlasotinc, who have gained knowledge of learning through work, will naturally take priority. As for the arguments given by the amendment's promoter, to introduce dual education gets cheap labour, I want to say that cheap labour gets precisely when young people don't have a chance to gain knowledge through practical teaching. Dual education does not create cheap labour, but encourages better integration of economy and education at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23973	The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23974	Dual education is certainly only one in a series of reforms of the overall education system that Serbia needed and whose reform has been delayed for many years. I have to remind the citizens of Serbia that we had dual education during a previous period and that our problem as a state was that we had no continuity in some areas that we set up. A previous colleague mentioned that a child cannot express his own opinion at age 15 or 16. How can a child at 15 express his own opinion? I am a educator of education, and I believe that just through dual education and practice in children, creativity and absolute ability to express their own opinion of creativity and entrepreneurial spirit are encouraged. I agree with your assessment, Minister, that this emphasis on cheap labour is one flossule that will not pass, because it is a professional workforce and again because of Serbian citizens I want to remind you that at the last meeting we had in Strasbourg, the Stabilisation and Association Committee, that the opposition MPs have just tried to propose an amendment to condemn dual education, introducing dual education in Serbia, and that European MPs have reacted against it and have not accepted the amendment. That's the first thing. Another thing I also wanted to say is that you and your associates held talks with the representatives of the schools and you have over 1,800 institutions and schools that want to support this project and I recently attended such a meeting in Arangelovac, when the entrepreneur accidentally approached the textile industry and said how necessary it was for his factory.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23975	The word is Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23976	I don't understand. A student in a company doesn't do what an employer asks of him. He's at the employer doing what he writes in the curriculum and the program. So don't forget that. So he's working on the curriculum and the program. If the employer doesn't respect it, the school has the right to terminate the contract that exists with the employer. The fact is, we don't have a business. Unfortunately, we don't have a business. And why don't we have a business? Because you've robbed and destroyed everything since 2000, that's what you have to say. The third thing I want to say is, dual education involves the third and fourth degrees. The best university-educated people and executives are those who have previously completed the third and fourth stages of dual education. So, the best managers of catering companies and hotels are the ones who have previously ended up with a waiter or a cook, and you can see for yourself on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23977	Members together Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Belačić and Vjerica Rade, together Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Aleksandra Cabraja, Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 4th amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23978	Since it's mostly spoken for the public, and that's, of course, perfectly legitimate, I really have to explain it once again because of some colleagues who have indirectly or most directly made objections to the amendments where each individual member is proposed to be deleted. It's just, it's not nice for a folk MP to say it's an amendment type of broken record. It only speaks of an MP who said he didn't know, that MP, so he doesn't know that every MP has the right to submit an amendment and has the right to propose that a member be deleted. It simply speaks of the public being distracted by the fact that we here are doing something that is just to be done, and the point is that MPs of the ruling majority are all talking about each amendment, and that is their right, to understand, I am not opposed to that right, but it is saying that we have limited time to explain the amendments. In this Rules of Procedure limited by time, as this debate began, we may be able to complete the amendments on one, to the top of the two laws, and at least two laws will be left without a single word by the opposition and applicants of the amendment. Well, respected citizens, that's the point and that's the truth. When it comes to amendments to Article 4 or Article 4, it shall discuss the objectives of dual education. You have now listed what all the goals of dual education are. Among other things, you say this is a contribution to strengthening the competitiveness of the Republic of Serbia's economy. I'd like to hear how that dual education can contribute to the competitiveness of the economy. It really has nothing to do with what this dual education is about. Another goal I find interesting, you say, is the goal of dual education, among other things, to develop awareness of the importance of health and safety, including safety and health at work. Now, this one that explains to me, it's really for the medal. By law, you're developing consciousness, a law on dual education to develop awareness of the importance of health and safety, etc. Does this mean that it's true what we've been saying for a few days, that these kids are going to work there without adequate protection, that these kids are going to work without a contribution to disability and retirement insurance, so they have to develop awareness that, God forbid, don't hurt them, that, God forbid, they don't get something on their heads because they don't have a helmet, etc.? It's the only way I'm interpreting this provision. But, ministers and fellow MPs from the ruling majority who will vote for this law, the aim of this law in one sentence is, I don't know whether knowingly or unconsciously, defined one of the colleagues who will vote for the law. He said that the purpose of this law is a professional and good master. That's why we think this law shouldn't be passed and everything else you're saying is farce, this is the goal. So it's not what you're talking about - people will be able to continue to educate you, only no one has explained how someone who can end up a mechanic, to get to the bread line as soon as possible, can become a doctor, how someone who ends up a tailor can become an atomic physicist, etc. So it's not true what you're saying. Once again, we repeat that this law is returned nicely. It won't apply soon anyway, hopefully not at all. And just what we've been talking about all day about this law, or two days, will just distract those other laws that we won't be able to talk about here in detail. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23979	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23980	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 158. Rules of Procedure. During yesterday's debate on details, I also asked your vice president to give me a notice on how and how we will measure the time when we are discussing the details, whether it is in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, because I see that the SRS MPs have tried to meet you by saying that this debate is coming to an end soon and that we will not have time to explain our amendments. By e-parliament so far we have spent a little over half an hour, or over 35 minutes, exactly 38 minutes, I have information, when it comes to amendment promoters, which is in line with this Rules of Procedure. So we're just interested and my question is this: is what's on the e-parliament valid for the MPs, is that how we can get to know the time we have left to discuss in particular, or is there some other model by which that time is calculated, which we are not informed of?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23981	Your Honor, you've been informed of everything. You're a longtime MP. It is very clear in the Rules of Procedure how long the discussion takes, based on the announcement of the amendment's proposings up to two minutes, since I heard the sea yesterday, come on, I will refrain from commenting, the discussion of whether it is worth the time when the promoter spends a minute, 30 seconds or 60 seconds, and we do not have an answer to the question that is being overrun by two, three, five, 15 seconds. So, it's a very clear Rules of Procedure and it says that the debate on amendments, by proposing amendments, takes ten hours and you have other basics of reporting and it's very clear. Yesterday, a small number of times were spent. Just to find the information. Services have kept records, as they have so far, as they have for the last ten years. Nothing has changed, to your great pleasure, because you introduced that system and today we started a day with 550 minutes left, that's 275 amendments. I don't see what the problem is. A, Ms Radet's MPs, this refers to the basis following the amendment's proposal to be clear, therefore, after the amendment has been proposed. I'll let you know or whoever's the chairman, when we spend that base, and you spend your time on a regular basis, group time, and authorized proposings, means a total of about 19 hours all together. The word has the People's MP Marinika Tepic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23982	Thank you, President. I would continue to explain our amendment from the New Party and the Single Members' Club on Article 4, which defines the objectives of dual education. Just under point 1. says – providing conditions for acquiring, perfecting and developing competences according to market needs then. This is another reason why we have suggested that this member be deleted, as well as all the other members, i.e. the overall law, because you, on the one hand, mention the labour market here as something colloquial, just so that ours are among the goals of dual education, on the other hand, in the resolution of the Central Education Act, which is parallel to this debate, you eliminate information on the labour market among the information that high school students need to receive during education. We also submitted an amendment to that provision in the Law on Secondary Education. You are thus rounding up the future employment and recruitment of people, especially workers in Serbia, only if they have a SNS membership card. The whole of Serbia knows, Mr. Minister, that the employment bureau has moved to the SNS. These factories, Aleksandar Vukic, is constantly pushing to open up whatever function he is, opening up through subsidies, or our money, so those who voted for the SNS and those who did not vote for the SNS and those who did not vote at all, and you care about our budget. This way of defining the Dual Education Act, I repeat, is just legalizing child labour as the cheapest labour force and for the benefit of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23983	Thank you. Time. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23984	Thank you very much. Let's go a little bit longer, it looks like it's needed from time to time, on the subject of elementary thinking. It opens up someone who owns a particular company plant or factory and then how it can affect anyone and how logic is formed that determines who they hire. Of course, anyone who owns a particular company is looking at how to help himself as a owner, to hire someone who's a capable worker, to hire someone who's a good worker, someone who's worth it, someone who's a pedantic, someone who can do the job and secure the result. I guess that's the elemental thing. What party? What nonsense are we listening to here that's already in order? So how can someone convince a man to work in the interest of his own harm, to destroy his own company because someone imagined that now the party could hire in such situations? Then look at the composition of the companies that are coming to Serbia, which are opening those plants, which are terribly disturbing to you, because they remind you of your incompetence. See how real the sector is, how much private capital there is in Serbia today, and what the focus is when we talk about employment and job creation, right on that sector, right on those faces. So, on a private initiative, where basic business logic is the beginning and the end of every logic. Then someone smart comes along and says, "Oh, no, it's a party job." You know why? First, because he thinks it's going to reduce the excellent result that's being achieved today. He won't. The citizens see it, so they can't be fooled. Second, because he thinks it will reduce his shame, his disaster of the horror he left behind. He won't. The citizens remember that very well. Third thing, because there's nothing else to say at this session or any other session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23985	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23986	We have submitted an amendment to Article 4, which speaks of the goals of dual education and the exact same situation. Goals are declared, and these objectives cannot be achieved, because the provisions of the further law absolutely do not support these objectives. You're talking about the goal of providing employment conditions for completed education. That's not true. So, this law introduces the possibility that someone who is 15, 16, 17 years old works with an employer and works at a factory, and there's no guarantee he'll be employed afterwards. Then why didn't you write in this law - all those who finish learning through the employer's work must be hired by the employer? If they have jobs, if they need labour, if they're going to wear it, then why don't they hire him? Let them have an obligation to hire them. No, I don't. They have no obligation to hire them. The factory can leave after three years from Serbia, that it is gone. That man has no chance of getting a job, because when he doesn't have a factory, there's no job. Don't talk about how we destroyed something, and you didn't destroy it. You know very well who you are in the party with and you know well that you were in the Government of the Republic of Serbia when they bombed this country. (Vladimir Orlic: The late grandfather has destroyed. ) Behind you remained a wasteland in 2000, a wasteland, destroyed everything, and was also leveled with the land in the bombing. That's the result of your policy. (Vladimir Orlic: Who? Those who were then in government. Ask around who was in the government then. So you left a wasteland in this country, and now you're to blame for someone who started reforming education 10 years or 15 years ago. What does that look like? You destroyed everything in this country and in 2012 you continue what you did until 2000. Should we be bombed again?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23987	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23988	I report for breach of the Rules of Procedure - Article 107. Mr. Konstantinovic, you should be ashamed of the words you have spoken. The Serbian Progressive Party is proud of the fact, because I know what you're alluding to, except you don't have the courage to say it, which is, among other things, the minister in the government, who defended Serbia from NATO aggression, was our President Aleksandar Vukic. That's probably what you were thinking. We're proud of that fact. Are you proud of what you've been doing as a member of the Resistance against the interests of your country? What did you get money for it from foreign employers? Are you ashamed that you've been setting up locators in Serbia for dollars so that NATO bombers know where to hit the goals of Serbia-Montenegro? Are you ashamed that you called on the NATO Pact in the spring of 1999 to hit Serbia as hard as possible, because it says the more intense the bombing the sooner the regime of Slobodan Milosevic falls and then Nenad Konstantinovic shows up in 2017 and holds lessons for us, a member of the worst possible regime that has ever remembered Serbia, gives lectures on how we are supposed to use some children, how do we bring employers for cheap labour? In their time, absolutely all the factories that worked in Serbia were closed. At a time when Aleksandar Vukic was Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and factories worked. When you took over, those factories were closed. Serbia, not that it wasn't a place of cheap labour, but it had no workforce at all, because you had absolutely all the jobs shut down.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23989	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23990	President, you hurt the Rules of Procedure, you didn't warn the previous speaker who spoke to me personally. According to article 107, he has no right to speak to me personally, nor to mention my name. So, the fact that the previous speaker was an SRS feather and that he fought in this assembly and that he was against Alexander Vukic, whose name he now mentioned and tried in every way possible to prevent Alexander Vukic from becoming a SNS, so now the situation has changed a little bit and he remembers the bombing and is proud of it... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23991	Ambassador, don't insult me. (Nenad Konstantinovic: A man is proud. Don't insult me. Who's proud of Serbia's bombing? How can you say that? It doesn't make sense. I know I shut you down because I don't allow anyone to say that any Serbian citizen is proud of the bombing. (Nenad Konstantinovic: And I set up a locator? Take it easy. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23992	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a member of 108 and 109 has been injured. I respect your tolerance, Madam Chairman. (Balsa Bozovic: Did you set up the locators? ) However, Balsa Bozovic casts. He thinks you can distract me. He can't distract me, he's mature for the Maldives, he's building his own board there. Anyway, I think you had to give a warning about dignity. So, if someone is talking about the '90s, and he was in a party that had two ministers in the federal government of Slobodan Milosevic, if someone's talking about the infamous '90s, and he takes his party's leadership to Jahorin, if someone's talking about the infamous '90s, and he's eating an ox at the Palace, if someone's talking about the '90s, and there's a Mr. Radulovic in the Republic Government, if someone's talking about the 90s, and he's talking about the 90s in two governments, and if someone's talking about the notorious '90s, he seriously hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. I also remember in 1992 and 1993, Mr. Martinovic, you certainly know that, and you remember the famous coalition concluded by Mr. Kostunica, Mr. Seselj and Mr. Djindjic about choosing together the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Parliament. When someone who participated in those 90s, and I didn't, so someone who was also on Slobodan Milosevic's money- talks about the infamous 90s, is talking about the anti-war, their activity, and in doing so, he supported the continuation of the war in Bosnia, waiting for NATO, eating the ox at the Palace, then it's a serious violation of dignity for which a warning should be made. I'm not asking you to vote on the injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23993	Thank you. I accidentally took seven seconds from you. Excuse me. The word is made by MP Branko Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23994	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, article 103, and that injury was committed twice, once in the event of a fellow member of Martinovic's report, for the second time in the event of a call by MP Risticevic. Both reported to the Rules of Procedure, and they spoke and responded as if it were a replica. In that sense, this position of Article 8 103 requires you as the chairman of the National Assembly to take two minutes away from the parliamentary group they normally have to discuss, since they have misused the call by the Rules of Procedure to enter the replica. I ask you to remove this breach of the Rules of Procedure by taking two minutes and one and another of the MPs' groups, and in that case, if you do so, we do not have to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you don't do it, then I'm asking you to vote on this in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23995	I won't do it because you asked selectively, three speakers actually replicated, and they didn't move in the framework of the Rules of Procedure's Infringement Institute. So, all three, Nenad Konstantinovic, Marijan Risticevic and Aleksandar Martinovic. I don't know why, I'd give everybody a line, if it was the basis for the replica, this time it was. Therefore, I won't and we'll vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I owe more replica to Vervai Radetti. You, the breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, but something new, because these three can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23996	Thank you. Article 103, paragraph 7, to take the largest parliamentary group two minutes because they used and abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm advocating Article 103 of the 7th century and taking two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23997	Item eight is two minutes, attitude seven is something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23998	Then attitude 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u23999	Excuse me, MP, that was, I asked you, now it's Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24000	But I'm advertising Article 103(7).
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24001	Yes, but you quoted attitude 8. What's in attitude seven?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24002	Read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24003	Subtracting two minutes is attitude eight, that's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24004	Therefore, to apply provisions 108 to 111 is Article 103(7). The largest parliamentary group has abused the Rules of Procedure for the simple reason it attacked both the late prime minister of Serbia and the DS president and spoke about setting up a radio locator.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24005	Ambassador, you told Article 103 of Section 8 to take two minutes. I turned my attention that it was, then you said attitude seven. I completely understand, but there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is impossible to bid a violation of the Rules of Procedure, one and the same thing that all previous MPs have done. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24006	It's a real problem when authors don't know the Rules of Procedure themselves, like Balša Bozovic, whom I'm really replicating, because before they went into this really inappropriate debate about those 90s and the role of this or the one in those 90s, especially during the bombing, the Serbian public, will know the history of who was on which side, it is known that Serbian radicals were part of the government and were then there to defend the country, Djindjic's Democrats and resistances were setting up locators, that Djindjic called for Serbia's bombing, but to return to what I actually reported. Balsa Bozovic said that radicals are doing advances a favor just now because I said we would not be able to talk about other bill proposals, because we will spend time on these amendments. That is absolutely correct, it is true that we are going to spend time, and the service to the promoters has been done by the Democrats, because the Democrats have done this Rules of Procedure, the advances have not changed it and this Rules of Procedure of the DS is the one that makes it impossible for the MPs to actually talk about every amendment they submit. The problem is that those who wrote in their own time do not know what it says and do not know how to apply it. Here, we have 37 amendments left to the dual education law. So far, at least five MPs have appeared by each member. That means we'll spend 370 minutes, if we go at that pace, just on this bill. We've got about 500 minutes, as you said, so we'll barely cross a few amendments from this next bill. Indeed, Mr Bozovic should know this, not that he is maliciously turning the story around as it suits him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24007	Thank you. We're not going to replicate any more of the RP's injury, please. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. On what basis now? (Balsa Bozovic: On what basis? I'm mentioned personally by Djindjic and DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24008	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, therefore, I am pleased that Verica Radeta opened this topic as Serbian radicals defended their country in 1999, headed by Alexander Vukic, only you forgot to say that. What's just the topic, and then there was a war on Kosovo...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24009	A mistake, but a mistake, it's not a intention. Just reapply, I know how much you've spent, about six seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24010	So, the DS never wanted to get into that conflict, and we think that this conflict is something that was deep and very much costing both our people and our country and our economy, which is, of course, your work together. You fought, you led such a policy in the 1990s that you literally forced Albanians to separate from Serbia, to do everything to get out of Serbia. After that you signed the Brussels Agreement and space justice is that you are now facing this problem and that you have come to collect everything you did in the 1990s. So it's your joint work, one common family of former and future radicals. What is also a thing, while the generals, while the soldiers, while the people were at war, starving and bearing sanctions, died at the end of the day, were buying apartments of one brand per square and your President Alexander Vukic and Vojislav Seselj and many others.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24011	MPs, I'll allow replicas. I ask you all to consider what this is all about today. What's this all about? Don't blame me later that we haven't had time to discuss the bill's proposals. If someone doesn't want to discuss bill proposals, go ahead. It's not a problem. I'll allow replicas. You go too far in that, and this isn't good for anyone. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24012	The public certainly knows, and I don't know why a previous colleague tried to bring some confusion to the public in Serbia. In 1990, Serbian radicals, I repeat, were part of the government. We were in the government of national unity. The head of the SRS was then and now, Professor Vojislav Seselj, who was then Deputy Prime Minister. Alexander Vukic was one of the radical ministers and we have no problem admitting it and saying it. The government has worked well, but unfortunately your friends from, above all, the United States and the great Western forces are the ones who contributed, who initiated the bloody collapse of the former Yugoslavia even then, and then in 1999, the bombing of Serbia. It is a great shame to be, not only a folk MP, to be a citizen of Serbia and to say that they are Serbs and that the then government, I don't know how, abused the Shiptars, that we wanted to banish them from Serbia, etc. It's just amazing that someone allows himself such luxury, no matter who pays him, who makes him speak against his country, but this is how you behave in 2017, to say this with the same ferocity as in 1999, to set up locators, it's really embarrassing and inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24013	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24014	Balsa Bozovic keeps talking about some diapers, I don't think he came out of those political diapers, and since he's still in diapers, I'm going to remind him a little of what his Democratic Party said in 1995. I have here a declaration signed by the city committees of the Serbian Democratic Party of Serbia, the SRS, the DSS and the DS. It's the New Sad City Committees. It's a statement from 1995, so for the gentleman in diapers, let me remind him. It says -- Serbian peoples of Serbia's Athens, the Ustasha authorities from Zagreb have restored their aggression against the Republic of Serbia's Krajina. It's about Operation Flash. Once again, Serbian territory is taking over, killing the Serb enemy and the powerless, and defiled Serb sanctity. Serbian peoples of Serbia's Athens, wake up from the dream of the Yugoslavs that they are taking you to, quote -- non-Serbs and Serb traitors. Take down the Drina border and turn to your brothers who bleed again, defending the Serbian country and the largest Serbian city underground -- Jasenovac. Sir in diapers, tell me are you still behind this statement, or have you changed your policy and all the blame for the former Yugoslavia's collapse and for the events in Kosovo and Metohija brought on Serbia and on the Serbian people?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24015	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24016	Everything Mr. Martinovic has said is a disgusting lie and absolutely never such a thing happened and leave those fakes from the time of the SRS to yourself. What your party president said on July 15th of those years is a table for one. That's right. And that's what's left in history. In 1999, after signing the capitulation of Kumanovsky so-called The agreement, i.e. the capitulation of the Yugoslav Army, is a statement by SRS champion Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic that we must all mobilise and continue the war for Kosovo. For ten years, your policy has caused Serbs to be gone where there were Serbs. There are fewer in Kosovo... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24017	MPs, I'm setting up for article 112. We'll keep working on the agenda points. This doesn't make any sense anymore. You can clap me. Yeah, I'm trying to run a session. I'm trying to make this look like a real parliament. So if we go like this with the insults of both the citizens of Serbia and the members of parliament, and the politicians and we discuss history, I know exactly what will happen and what kind of answer you will get. So Article 112 allows me to take a break, but not to continue with the chaos, but to continue to work on the amendments. Who can do it? Who can't, there are other instruments in the Rules of Procedure. Enough. [[Marco Djurisic: What's the break?]] One minute. That's enough for you all to change your mind.? (Balsa Bozovic: Can I continue? No, no, clearly not. (Balsa Bozovic: What a coward you are. That's terrible. I'll show you what a coward I am. Here's the break, so the Dweri don't have, so your distinguished colleagues don't have the dilemma that happened yesterday. (Marian Risticevic: It's funny to him. That's funny, that's funny. (Marian Risticevic: Beating a woman, he finds it funny. That's funny. Here you go. Ivan Bauer called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24018	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I really don't understand how we could have come from the discussion of the dual education law to the bombing of the SRJ in 1999. I really don't understand how a colleague managed to connect these two topics and challenge half an hour of debate about something that isn't the topic of the agenda. I really ask the President not to allow you to turn away from this topic, especially since the opposition is asking that all the time available be spent on a discussion of the law in dual education. This law deserves to be discussed as much as possible. It is not at all disputed that opposition MPs appear with some documented criticism, but the emphasis is on the argument, and it cannot be understood that there is an argument of criticism if it is about cheap labour, because I remind you that this law on dual education we, as an idea, have taken over from Germany, Switzerland and Austria. So we're talking about countries that are paradigms for Serbia in every sense, and also in terms of education. Now, if we say that this law is being built so that we can hire cheap labour, that means that I suppose these three countries have passed these laws too to produce cheap labour. Well, I don't know who can believe that. The minister said well – 7.5% are secondary schools. Well, I'm sorry, not everyone can be highly educated. Of course it should be our country's goal for people to be highly educated, but I don't know any country on the planet that has 100% higher education. Someone has to do other jobs, and you need to be trained for it. I want only one part of this Article 4 that we're trying to talk about, and we're failing because they're turning us off the topic without any need, and we're opening up some topics that have absolutely nothing to do with the subject of dual education. That's, that's all we agree on, an important topic. So, the objectives of dual education are to provide conditions for obtaining, perfecting and developing competences in line with labour market needs, to contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, to providing conditions for employment after completion of education, to providing conditions for further education and lifelong learning, to life-long, to whatever you want. Now, tell me how on the basis of these things we're talking about, someone says this law is being written so that someone on the basis of a SNS membership card or any other party would be hired by a company. You're telling me now that a stranger who comes to Serbia and opens a drive, someone can order him to hire someone because he has a membership card. That really doesn't make any sense. How can one colleague say that we should introduce that this law requires employers to hire someone? How can the law of any state condition the economy, or the conditions of economic operators, to hire someone? So it's something totally amazing, how can we legally condition someone, order him to do something? That's absolutely amazing. Now, there have been some remarks we can discuss. It's said -- the labour market is changing, and now we're setting up some here, introducing dual education, and the labour market is changing, and if necessary, it's going to change. Okay, and education is a fluent category. Here, the minister said today that some new directions are being opened, so we're trying to create personnel through this system for today. It doesn't say anywhere that we're not going to change that system the way the labour market needs change. I don't see what's going on here, and I don't see what this is all about right now. Also, it's said -- the future is lifelong learning. Who defends children who finish high school or who finish their schools under a dual education system, and we said it wasn't just three years old, but also four years of schooling, who forbids them to learn their whole lives or who forbids them to become entrepreneurs, because when they learn through this dual education system, the practice that we were when we were their age, unfortunately, for that we were deprived. I went to a focused education, but still, because I went to a specific school, I had some opportunities to learn something and practice. Most kids didn't teach anything practical. So they knew absolutely nothing when they left school. Very often they knew nothing practical when they left college. Why don't we change that? I really can't understand that. So, please, let's talk. It's not a disputed criticism, but please, let's talk about some things that make sense, not that we're giving some kind of flat-rate, that we're politicizing the law without any need. This is a law that is certainly useful for Serbia, and I think the countries from which we took it are the best guarantee that this is something that, come on, we can't say that is 100%, but pretty sure, something that is quality and something that has perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24019	Thank you. The 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Here you go. The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24020	Dear President, the former regime has destroyed education and education for the past ten years, especially education and work. Therefore, it is welcome to have this law on dual education, which primarily puts students in the centre of education and education, as a subject, and, in addition, it train them to live. It is a department from the Sena China and how it is current today - "we are not learning for school but for life". It is precisely this law on dual education that is an extraordinary teaching, so to speak, and the civilizational step of our ministry and our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24021	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24022	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendment and member are almost identical, I confess, these are the conditions for lifelong learning. She's got a saying, and this dual education is that learning is like rowing upstream, as soon as you stop learning, you come back. That's why I believe this law is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24023	The word is Anna Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24024	I thank the president. We have submitted an amendment to which we want to delete the entire law at all, not just this member, because we believe that dual education is not an adequate educational concept, we talked about it yesterday. Before you even want to introduce dual education, you have to make a thorough reform of our education and education. You come from private education yourself, I also worked for years in private education, came from primary schools, even from some central Belgrade elementary schools that apply to the best, children who don't know how to think. When you ask them at school, for example, what do you think of something? They look at you and say, "No one has ever told us that, nor has anyone ever asked us to think." I will also remind you of that quote by Albert Einstein, who says – the goal of education is not to learn facts, but to teach students to think. So, before you even want to implement dual education, I think the primary goal is to teach the students to think, to make a fundamental reform that will bring concrete change into our education. It's like you're clogging a sinking ship. Nothing will be achieved by this, only we will have great, long-term damage, and we as a society and generations of students who come after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24025	Thank you. Representatives Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 4th amendment. Do you want a word? (No) In the name of Chapter II, the name above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians together Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarović and Vjerica Radet, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraja and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, submitted the same amendment. The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24026	Article 5 is correctly written in terms of a system that is promoted by this draft law. But since we are contesting this whole concept, of course we have submitted an amendment where we are asking to delete this member as well, which concerns the plans and programmes of teaching and learning. Just that I'm simply supplementing our basic opinion on this bill. Dual education should mean there are two educations. However, there are no two educations here, there is one education and practical teaching. It's nothing new, it exists with us a long time ago, and it should exist. Through practical teaching should be mastered of these manual and other abilities and skills, so that what, let's say, the theoretical knowledge from the bench can be practically applied, and that during education and this is just education and nothing else, a student who needs to acquire knowledge, acquire and the necessary skills to avoid getting hurt on the rail, on another machine when possibly employed as a trained person for work. In that sense, all I have to do is distract you, this law is unnecessary. You don't need this law. In our practice so far, this part of education, which is a practice, something is wrong, it should eventually be repaired and allowed with the skills of students, and the whole educational process is based on knowledge, knowledge, knowledge and skills and manuals, etc. You've taken this completely unnecessary to one level. Obviously, the public needs some publicity, like something epochal is happening in accordance with some European standards, some liquids. It's no liquid, it's no standard. It's something that's always existed and exists. I wouldn't share any personal experiences, since I've been faced with what's called learning and practice since I was young. I just want to draw attention, we need those personnel, who, when they complete the education process, can get involved in the process of production. Of course, they won't be involved with that serial production, as a man who's worked at a certain workplace for ten years, but has a basis for knowing that he can be a quality worker who doesn't endanger machines or work processes or his health condition. In that sense, I think the greatest lack of this concept is that you came out of the space of education and education. Please, six hours a day longer than 30 hours a week? It's probably not going to be in that amount, but the thought of a maximum six hours a day someone who's in the education process should be in practice where he's supposed to work. There's a scissors, there's a mistake, there's all sorts of things coming out. So to stimulate it in some way, it goes with 70% of the fee, which is 91 dinar per hour. Like that's gonna be some kind of stimulant. Some of my predecessors mentioned something that used to happen. Well, we had education institutions, machinery centres, in Rakovica, in the electronics industry, and it was a real yag to enroll children after primary school in order to train them, because they know when they finish that education process that they have been trained in work, that they can immediately resume their working relationship with the company in question. Today, unfortunately, we are not in a position to do such a thing. Why? Because there are no economic development carriers, large economic systems. We have a mental error. We believe that we can get out of the economic crisis by foreign direct investment. Aman, no country on a globe with foreign foreign direct investment from abroad has come out of an economic crisis. We need to use it, these experiences, to look for our own path that should respect this left, right, northeast, etc. The movements that are moving towards us. How much to catch the connection, not to cough, but we need to have an authentic pathway of our own, tailored to the social environment and the economic situation. It's a fundamental lack of this concept of dual education. Dual, that means she has two educations. There aren't two educations here, there's one educational process here. One is in the classroom, and the other is in the production plant, where motor skills need to be expressed. No matter how old the machines are, but the student during the process has to understand what this machine is, what its performances are, what are environmental hazards, what is important to make a good series, quality series, good products, etc. You should keep in mind, Mr. Minister, we have a railway school now, so he's got this carpentry school, but none of them are going to be a railroadman or a carpenter, but when it's over, he's going to be a cop. I guess you're familiar with that. You in Rakovica have a big education center. What's he for now when it's all closed? There will be a foreign investor or a Chamber of Commerce, who will say no, please don't. That's not the answer. The authentic path is the solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24027	The word has a Marinika Tepic, a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24028	Thank you. We from the New Club of Independent Members are asking that Article 5 be deleted as well. The law on dual education as well as any other member, i.e. we believe that this is a harmful and harmful law and that, I will repeat every time, legalize children's work as the cheapest workforce. Article 5 is otherwise addressed and reads – Plans and programmes for teaching and learning. In the 1st position, it says – The basis for the adoption of curricula plans and programmes is a standard of qualifications that determines sectoral greater for a particular sector of work, in accordance with the law governing the national qualification framework. The Anti-Corruption Agency strongly opposed this definition, noting this as one of the corrupt measures, because there is still no law governing the national qualification framework. Why isn't there? I'm going to do it again every time, because it's everything, including the employment bureau and these kids and their poor parents transferred to the SNS. It's not true that a SNS through its membership card can't affect the employment of these children in private. It can, because employment is subsidized, but not from Alexander Vukic's private pocket, as he is trying to present it, but from the Republic of Serbia's budget, by paying all the citizens of this country to subsidise jobs. So everyone opens those jobs, not one man or one party. And it is true that those workers working in diapers should have become members of the SNS in order to get those poor, humiliating jobs. So this law, please withdraw from the procedure and do not humiliate our workers and their children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24029	The word has Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24030	How easily some people here target each other with numbers and different categories, how they easily engage in topics that sound good to them, almost as well as those 10 million dollars for banana shorts. Nice, round number, millions count. They say -- someone has to join the SNS because the state will then grant someone a subsidy, so they will blackmail her man to hire, etc. The fact that excuses can be made by someone who shows mildly does not have the average subsidy per job, how much is the subsidy returned and what is then to be done by someone who cares for their own company, their own capital. That someone after 14 months, and that's not something I'm saying, it's the experts who questioned these things, who looked at both the value of contracts and the duration of jobs, and what the state gets from the other side, 14 months need to go by so that someone would take and fall, it's gone clean. Well, why did someone start any business, not in Serbia, but anywhere? What does this world have to do with anything if it's ready to destroy itself after 14 months, by that strange and concise logic that we hear from the other side? It's a fairy tale and it's a very bad, cheap, destructive fairy tale that doesn't serve anything, except to add a little bit of anger here, to tell all sorts of things on the SNS, and everything stupid and all nonsense. So is there a private who is capable of destroying himself, just because self-proclaimed experts on the other hand say that? Those who are so professional and are so understood both in jobs and in the labour markets, that, once again, hundreds of thousands of people in this country are left out of work and are not ashamed of it today. They are not ashamed of much greater things, why should they be ashamed of such things? For them, these people and their fates have always been a pointless story and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24031	Thank you. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24032	Thank you. The unique opportunity that has now been given to me, I thank the president, to respond on several occasions to the alleged charge of financing banana shorts while I was the circuit secretary for sports and youth, a mandate that I am extremely proud of. You can also ask your Minister, Mr Vanju Udovic, who personally promoted the Banatian Shores, who personally supported the financing of the Banatian Shores as a traditional sport at all public debates over the newly adopted Sport Act. So you don't have a problem with me, if you have shorts, but you have a problem with your minister. The fact that you don't understand it, you don't understand what the opposition keeps talking about, about the legitimacy and legalization of child labour as the cheapest labour force. Not just you, Mr. Orlic, but some previous speakers. Here, I think of a colleague named Bauer. I totally understand that you don't understand this, because if you understood that you needed a SNS membership card for everyone living in this country, even with private employers, you'd probably be a minister, and you wouldn't stay here, you wouldn't be left here to talk fairy tales, of course in accordance with your cognitive abilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24033	Vladimir Orlic, replica. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24034	I won't, of course, answer why I'm here. I guess it's more than clear that I'm here with great pleasure. I'm very pleased to show the worst of the worst where they are and what they don't know and how incompetent they are, with great pleasure. So don't ask me for another place, I'm doing great here. As for these stories of child labor, let's do this -- what are these kids learning? You say, cheap labor. What are these kids in a devastated country where their parents were thrown out on the street? Today is no good if someone gets paid and they make it fair, they make it with their hands, they deserve it, and the state has made it possible for them to have a place to pay. That's not good, that's below the level of dignity? Sending people to the street and telling them that I don't know what they're doing politely, going through the container, that was dignified. It's a state of decent people that some have built, and they have the nerve to comment on anything here at all. Don't kid yourself, ladies and gentlemen. He talks about what's happening today and who's responsible for what he deserves, let's do it again for those who can't understand and understand, today in Serbia someone is trying to do something, today whoever's trying to do it can do it, and he's providing jobs, and he's making sure that these people have a future, and so are those kids that you're falsely worried about. So there's where that kid's gonna pay for the textbooks, something they're talking about here long and wide, and all the other expenses they're talking about to cover. That's what someone in this country is doing today. Who doesn't understand? The one who can't understand. I don't want to get into what's causing it, whether it's someone's ability or the absence of desire. But when he speaks, let's say Alexander Vukic, he knows, when he speaks to him, he has to raise his head, because he tells a man of himself higher in every sense, both intellectually and morally and by every ability. When he speaks like that with his head up, if he wants to give in to the work of his tongue glands, let him know, whoever spits high, he returns to his cheek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24035	Time. Thank you. The word is Ana Stevanović, as an amendment promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24036	Thank you. We reiterate that this proposal for dual education is not good at all and we urge you to withdraw this law from the procedure in order to implement those reforms that are beyond need. One of the proposals we'll talk about later when we talk about other laws is free textbooks. It is one of the measures that is very easy to implement, for which there is and how enough money in the budget, so I don't know why you wouldn't accept it. When we talk about free textbooks, I would like to call on a very nice quote from the famous Italian publicist Italal Kalvin, who says the following – a country that destroys its schooling never does it just because of money, because it lacks resources, no, a country that destroys education is much under the rule of those who fear from the expansion of education because the uneducated people are most easily manipulated. I would ask you to remember this quote and keep it in mind as we explain our proposals for the introduction of free textbooks for students of all high and elementary schools, because the money in the budget for it and how it does, and the benefit we can benefit from it is multiple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24037	The word is Marko Djurisic, the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24038	We have suggested that Article 5 be deleted also because we believe that the law is bad and it is bad if both Article 5 is read and it is not clearly defined how many in the plan and programme for students who will be part of dual education will be teaching for mandatory generalised subjects, as much as for professional and how much for elective ones. It is said that the plan will be adopted by the ministry and approved, and then later in some other members it is defined how much compulsory professional teaching can, for example, be done with work. Then it is said that it can last up to 30 hours a week, or six hours a day. I ask the question – if the student will spend six hours a day at work, do something there and learn with work, when will he and how much time will he have for general education or for an election subject? That's our criticism, and why we criticise that this reduces future generations' chances. We should give everyone a chance to get as much education as possible. So we ask that secondary education be mandatory, that the textbooks be free, and then these students through practice, with education or later on, some short-schooling will be able to qualify for this work that they are about to do. This is how they'll work 30 hours a week, Minister, and they won't have time to study any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24039	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24040	You have to interpret this 30 hours a week through some context when it happens by accident. When, say, in the senior year there's a cycle of unfulfilled practice, then you can just go to practice all week, so that's not a typical example. When it comes to the general education percentage within the dual, it is covered by the Law on High School and does not touch, it remains absolutely the same. When it comes to the overall reform of education, I would like to remind all of us here that we have recently adopted a system law on education and education in which, after 17 years, a paradigm has been voted which will aim at learning through outcomes. It's that huge change that won't bug, but that's really going to have the knowledge acquired and we're already going to have a PIS test in 2018, when we're going to know if we've made progress. This huge change continues through the National Framework of Plans and Programmes or Curiculum, which is being published, and then in 2018 the reforms and programmes of the first, fifth and first classes of high school begin, so it's a normal trail of events and that's something that exists, that we don't mask the whole story, we even adopted it in this Assembly. Otherwise, the National Qualifications Framework Act is over and enters the public debate for a day or two. Since the law on dual education will not apply for two years, the condition will of course be met. Otherwise, it is contained in Article 38 of this Act in transitional and final provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24041	The word is Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24042	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of JS, when the debate was in principle, expressed its position regarding the law on dual education and did not change that position today. As regards these amendments, which require the erasure of individual members, normally that the JS parliamentary group will not support any of these amendments because in this way the law loses importance because, in fact, by disposing of one, two, three or more members, as predicted, there is literally no law. What made me come forward to say a few sentences, since I belong to an older generation that remembers some other education that took place in Serbia, that is, in former Yugoslavia, at a time like this. Schools and students in business, industrial schools, etc., when one day went to school, and one day in practice, when we were getting good masters, good experts in all areas. We have cases today that when people are looking for a good metal picker, a metal picker, a welder, or rather a welder, I don't count further, an autolimary, a tin man, they're not on the market, or they're with a finished school, some degree, but they're not trained for that job. They didn't see what a rodent looked like, what a scrape looked like, and they ended up doing it. Unfortunately, that's true. I remember when I was younger and I was in the cable factory that we received a thousand workers for retraining at some point to get workers. Imagine now a young man who finished high school, an economic, electrical, mechanical-technical, did not find work in the profession and had to go to retraining, in fact, he threw away four years of his life, his work and his learning to become something else, a worker of another profession. That is why this dual education suggests that we will get workers, or experts in certain areas that, with theoretical knowledge, will also have practical knowledge that they can do the job they are asked for, or have been trained for. Mr. Minister, what I would suggest to you, I don't know if you are able to implement it quickly, we were once in the former Yugoslavia, although not as democratic as today, but an industrial country was developed and developed Serbia, we had so-called. Human planning. We planned in five and ten years what this country would take, how long it would take a doctor, how long it would take a lawyer, orientatively how long it would take a worker, etc. There's no such thing today. Today, we have a hyperproduction of certain occupations where young people finish what they are enrolled for, where they are enrolled and educated, and never by their age will they be employed in the profession they were trained for. Please check that out, so you'll see that today we have people with 15 and 20 years of staff in institutions with some interests for which no one has any needs, there is simply no need in Serbia for these occupations. They ended up somewhere, I wouldn't be talking about where, where, where, etc., but JS advocated and advocated to allow young people to study for that profession where they'd find themselves very quickly, have a job, secure themselves and their family so they could think about the future. That's why I don't understand some criticism by some distinguished colleagues and colleagues, criticism for criticism. Come on, let me criticise something, but I've always liked reasoned criticism, but I've never respected criticism for criticism. Please, when you're criticizing something, make a counter-proposal that'll be better than what's proposed, not just to say something's wrong without knowing what's good. That's why JS gives unique support, Mr. Minister, to this law and I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24043	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24044	Thank you, Chairman. I just had to answer it because, you know, I have this trait to remember very well. When they came to power today's amendment in 2000, they then launched a reform of education, late Minister Gašo Knezevic was doing it, one of the officials, or not an official, highly positioned person in his ministry, to whom they are often called today, which the university professor, then told the students once at a time – that studying the privileges of the rich. She then explained to us that not everyone could study, and at that time they were universally supportive, since today they tell us that we have to give to everyone who has a wider education. Today this lady is often called on shows, she makes various comments, she's a representative of this civil society, and I don't know what, and then she explained to us that she was studying the privileges of the rich. I'm interested in how you didn't think to answer and say that you're not ashamed, what you're suggesting, we're not going to vote for such a law that they otherwise destroyed with that law of ours and education. I'm listening here to the story of free textbooks, so you gave these free textbooks so, especially in the city of Belgrade, by raising credits and borrowing citizens, and then giving free textbooks that students had to return at the end of the year. Don't talk about free textbooks if someone has to take credit, so you've put the whole country in charge, so you've provided these allegedly free textbooks. I remember very well, since you regret today often for educated doctors who finish medical school and leave this country, unfortunately, because you've brought us to the point where the doctor's profession is really degraded. I remember a good piece of television, the guy ended up in medicine, and he had to requalified as a medical technician to get a job somewhere because in their time no one could get a job as a doctor. Today we're still opening 2,000 doctors jobs. See, that's the difference. I don't know what you want, you're looking for as wide a education as possible, and I'm sorry, what's an uneducated sageman for? What makes it some machine worker who wants to work in the industry an uneducated man? Maybe he's the best in his trade, and he needs to make more money than he did in philosophy. I'm sorry, it's the market, you're the one who introduced the market. You introduced us in 2000 capitalism in the most primitive form, so what do you want now? Today, when someone edits the system and the market dictates what is required, you now want to restore self-government socialism and have a planned economy. The market dictates, I'm sorry, that's right. I only volunteered to remind the citizens that those who brought us back then were telling us that the study of the privileges of the rich was. You see, in our system it's not like that, everyone can be educated but they can certainly be educated based on what the market requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24045	Thank you. The 5th amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24046	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member is telling us about the outcome of learning. I'll give an example, if my fellow farmer had had dual education and had been educated to cut vineyards, bathe, protection, spraying, picking, professional reading, mugging, though he knew that mud, but not grapes, then there would be no damage to the state, the state invested 550,000 euros, he failed nothing. If it were this law, I believe there would be no harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24047	The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24048	President-in-Office, as a sign of protest against the poor outcome of teaching one MP and trying to strangle me here with a tie in this high house by one as I said to the MP, the bully, or the strangler of the unilateral informing of journalists and his entry into the cabinet of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic, Serbia Maja Gojkovic and the brutal attack on her by giving up the reasoning of this amendment, in order to give up time for that MP to be brought up so that he would no longer do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24049	The violation of the Rules of Procedure Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24050	Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. I really don't see what it has to do with calling the strangulation of a colleague who got a call yesterday from my side to sit in the same place to see that he wouldn't be strangled, if he was strangled at all, with the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24051	He explained his reasons why he would not explain today his amendment that was allowed in a time shorter than two minutes. I don't see what the problem is. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted their names above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment. The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24052	Thank you. To Article 6. – The volume of learning through work is at least 20%, and no more than 80% of the hours of the total number of professional courses. So what Mr. Minister has proposed, we have suggested that it be deleted for the simple reason that we do not consider it to be dual education, education that will bring to anyone, anything good in this country. Neither will those students who will get the worst jobs, if they get them at all, with the blessing of the worst capitalists who will pay the minimum labour price, for them in particular 70% of the minimum price. They will, of course, be richer and richer, and these future workers will not be able to pay for themselves even the basic needs of life. Instead of dual education, we have proposed mandatory secondary education with the reform of secondary vocational schools, with the reform of high school to influence the development of an intellectual elite. So, not for cheap labor, not for cheap extension machines in factories, but for free textbooks. And if you had listened to us today, we would have talked about free textbooks for both primary and secondary education because it's free under the Constitution and because it puts all students in one equal no matter what family they come from, whether they have connections, whether someone has 10,000 euros per year to school their child or not. It is very important for all to be equal and for us as a society to be solid toward future generations. Everything else falls into the water because you have examples with which you communicate and who have completed this dual education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24053	On the 6th Amendment in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radet, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and together Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24054	Thank you, Chairman. This Article 6 speaks of the scope, period and place of realization of learning through work. The minister answered something but did not convince me that these maximum 30 hours of work, i.e. learning with work, will be for the benefit of students, not for the benefit of the employer, and that it will only be in exceptional situations when it is necessary to make up for maybe that study time fund. I think this law will open the door for students to work on a continuous basis for several months in accordance with the needs of the employer, when he needs some additional labour force and will, in that time, completely ignore their education, meaning, learning general education, electoral subjects and that part of the professional courses they need to study at school. We think that, among other things, this member is talking about the real intention of passing this law, it is that cheap labour is produced in Serbia, unfortunately. I don't think it's a good solution for students to spend time in school with educated teachers of their knowledge, to have teaching skills, as one of their colleagues used to say here, the importance of teaching students, that, instead of schooled teachers who graduated from colleges, instructors who would go through 40 years of training do. Can someone pedagous doactical measures be carried out in quality if they have completed 40 hours of training compared to the teacher who graduated from college? I'm not convinced of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24055	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24056	Thank you. This is another amendment that we are seeking to delete this member as we ask for the removal of all members of the proposal for a dual education law, because we are convinced that the adoption of this law is at least premature. We need to reform our education system because it's bad, it's outdated and unfair, but in that reform we can't start building a house from the roof, but from the foundation. We are now introducing dual education in order to somehow justify bad results at the end of primary school education, because children are finishing primary school with very little knowledge, and we have this situation because our education system is, above all, decades behind in modernising and reforming teaching and learning methods. We hear again that something is wrong with our children, that children are like this and like this, lazy won't learn, etc., then parents are guilty because they're like this and we keep trying to get our parents into a system that works according to the 19th century model. We must finally look into the truth. Times have changed, children should not be adapted to old school, but schools should be adapted to the children of new times. I ask from that that we urgently start reforming preschool and primary school education and to cut back on the stories of dual, until the foundations are built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24057	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24058	Thank you very much. I join the appraisals of the predecessors that the law is wrong, that is what we have defined through the amendments – it is deleted. I am pleased that colleagues from other parliamentary groups have accepted this medicine to combat the stupidity we receive as bill proposals, in the political sense of stupidity, of course. Here in this article it is very important to define that the scope, period and place of realization of learning through work in dual education is not foreseen by any strategic or development documents in the area of education in the Republic of Serbia. The education development strategy in Serbia 2020, as a roof resolution document does not recognise dual education at all, we already said that in the principle debate, but it is no shame to repeat it several times. Also, I agree with the estimates that this legalization of child labour is at the lowest possible prices, which is like those scenes we saw from the movies of disaster, from Asia and Africa, and that should not be allowed. Of course, children need to learn whatever school they are, not only to get a degree, even if it's real, but not forgeried as it is the custom, but that doesn't mean they have to be exploited their whole lives. Finally, we also have good news for the citizens of Serbia. This law will never be implemented. Either the promoter will give up on him when he realizes what it's about, or he'll be prevented from showing up by losing the election that's being announced for March next year. Therefore, there is nothing dangerous. This is another variant of the people's fear. Dual education has a few interesting examples, but on that second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24059	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24060	This member wanted to prescribe some minimums and some maximums and probably has a lot of these specifics why it took up to six hours, up to 30 hours a week, and I don't want to get into it, I don't share my predecessors' opinion on exploitation, but I insist that this should, in essence, be and just be an educational process and nothing more. In some ways, I have an understanding for lawmakers, which these professional professions are not popular and should somehow make it available and interesting for young generations, and that they need to bring into this system both the state and what the para-state authorities are, and even what the economy is, to define as many young people as possible for these crafts, for these professional professions, to regulate their working status somewhere 20 years ago. That definition, in the end, isn't so bad. However, the basic lack of this bill, whether it is actually possible, is not at all adapted to the existing social environment. I'd like to draw attention to an experience from abroad. During his stay abroad, a few years ago, in one family, the youngest son graduated from elementary school and then told Dad – our teacher says that when we opt for high school not to go to these general schools, but to go to craft schools, because Germany predicts that there will be no job for top intellectuals in the next ten years, but there will be work for those people who have locksmiths and these other crafts. Of course, I have no intention of comparing us and Germany, because it's incomparable, but we need original strategic planning documents, based on which we could direct the educational process. Unfortunately, our education process still has one major disease, and it is based on whether education is on the market. We have one part of the education that is on the market, which is addressed by companies, and businesses are engaged in this to earn money, to achieve profit and to have a predominant or dominant form of education that is in public property, where the basic function is not profit but knowledge and transfer of knowledge. As long as these two educational systems function and compete with each other, all our educational processes will be in the fog because the foundation of this educational process is not in principle regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24061	Thank you. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24062	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when enrolling students in dual education, should take special care of the goals of education, which pupils should acquire in primary school. One of these goals of education is the relationship, that is, education in the spirit of Serbian patriotism and patriotism. Since one of the people's MPs of the former regime has objected to us, who have actively defended our people and country, by giving up further explanations of this amendment, in order to give him time to raise himself up in the spirit of Serbian patriotism as the greatest and most significant goal of education and education so as not to gain, at least a little of that patriotic feeling as the highest height of every man's feelings, so as not to remain the dry branch of humanity's tree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24063	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24064	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the scope of learning, which is the subject of amendments and members, must be such that, for example, this Duke Maldives doesn't have to go to London's Harrods department, but that he can buy here, that our tailors and those suits don't have to cost a thousand, two, three thousand euros. This Duke of Maldives, who advocates social giving, that our workers would not be social cases, is better off sewing suits and that the Duke of Maldives can buy it for 100, 200 euros, rather than paying thousands, two and three thousand euros in London goods houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24065	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24066	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know that article 6 is talking about the percentage ratio of learning volumes through work, which is given in law compared to at least 20:80 percent. Our idea was in some percentage change, but not to make sure that the percentage we suggested was absolutely good, but more to draw attention to you in the ministry that maybe there's a little more to come up with. If I “worse ” those who wrote the explanation yesterday, today I will explain why this amendment was rejected to commend. So it's really written summed up. Examples of positive practice of working in the copper rolling stock in Sevojn or aluminium are given. However, it is still necessary that this percentage of work in practice goes to such a great percentage, and that is fine, and then at the beginning of the reasoning we have that story that certain schools have their own good, whether they are orchards, is probably meant primarily for agriculture schools, but the key thing that we suggested is that you design and, fortunately, that period from two years to law enforcement will be able to be the period when you will be able to design it, because of the reason we said that the goal of this education is one of three things - or to train yourself to work with those who gave them, so entrepreneurs, conditionally, or employers, or to work privately or to continue school. This percentage of 20:80 cannot possibly match who stays in that percentage to continue schooling. I'm telling you responsible as the man I've been working on is at least the most, but how to figure it out, how to see what the percentage of those who won't stay working, or who's going to go to their own private business, which I've already expressed some of my concerns and some hunches about whether it's possible, but this percentage of those thirds who need to continue their education will certainly not be able to continue schooling if this relationship stays between the scope of learning and this second volume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24067	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24068	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, the SNS parliamentary group cannot and will not accept and vote in favour of the amendment of the Duveri parliamentary group. When someone here in parliament decides whether they will support someone's bill, whether they will support the amendment, they are certainly not only handled by what it says in the amendment itself, but also by who wrote it and suggested it. Whoever wrote this amendment, we can't even assume, but whoever suggested it, I could feel it yesterday, and he could feel the whole parliament of the Republic of Serbia looking like it when they don't have the obligation to write amendments, but they're fighting some sort of quasi-mutation of the family, about women today, submitting these amendments allegedly to children. What may be the most frightening is that their entire care for children is covered by some sort of protection of the faith they allegedly belong to. From the looks of it, I said, I saw yesterday and I, because the applicants of this amendment, three MPs led by one woman, Maria Janjusevic, fell into my cabinet, violently broke into it. In addition to saying that I am preparing for the meeting and that I cannot accept them now, Bosko Obradovic was the first to enter, and then introduced two MPs, and what seems to be their concern for children who are allegedly showing up here today, care for women, care for democracy, as they imagine, they announced on Twitter, that they will fight guerrillaly against each of their political insinuators, as the Italian fascists fought, because they were the only ones who fought in such a way against their political insinuators, which SNS and the parliamentary group, and, of course, the SNS president, is proud to point out, certainly belongs to all those who do not mean, who want good to this country, who want good to this parliament. If you notice the bruises that I have on me, what seems to be democracy carried out by the Proponents of the Amendment Group of the Dveri and, what's scariest, that amendment will support the MPs of the opposition parties, because yesterday here they questioned their fascist behaviour in this House, so they laughed, so they asked to balance between the two sides, not to mention the diabolical reporting of certain media who played the mounted footage of them coming in, and, my God, they are interested in the punishment that was given to them. Here's how they punished me yesterday, and then think about whether you're going to boycott an MP who's funny about the amendments here, and you're not going to boycott the thugs and those who beat up in the parliament of women and who insult here and members of the Interior Ministry. If you noticed it in the video, it was a woman. If you noticed in the video, the secretaries are women, and what a miracle if you noticed, and the President of Parliament is a woman, and I am very interested in how you will raise your hand for the amendment of the Dveri Parliamentary Group and with which you have the moral credibility of sitting beside them at all after yesterday's event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24069	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24070	Article 104 has been injured. I don't know on what basis you've given the MP to talk about these things. I want to be here for the public to deny that what Mrs Gojkovic said was the most hopeless lie and that there is no video of her being seen like that. So it is a shame that the President of Parliament is constantly telling lies and insulting the parliamentary group... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24071	Mr. Kostic, you have told the People's Parliament several times not to tell the truth, but to lie, which I think is an insult, because if you find all the stenograms... (Ivan Kostic: Let me say two sentences. The people see what you're doing. ) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24072	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 109(1), indent 3. The warning is made to a MP who, despite the warning of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. In that sense, I would ask the chairman, Arsic, to make two warnings, as the first to give notice to MEP Maja Gojkovic, who called to speak according to the amendment and talked about bruises. The second warning I ask him to tell himself, since he was obliged to warn MP Gojkovic not to turn away from the topic of the agenda, and he did not, and therefore he himself deserved a warning. This doesn't make sense. We've got students coming in right now. I'm ashamed of these kids for what's going on here and how this assembly is run. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24073	Col. Stamenkovic, you have reason to be ashamed of your conduct, because of students, the first Belgrade high school student who just entered. As for your advertising of the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 109, the President decides when to make a warning measure, not you. I believe that colleague Gojkovic did not overstep her powers, because the whole discussion is being conducted to defend some of the rights of children. No one's challenging you, but you can't argue with children that women are the most vulnerable part of society. So, if anyone has to apologize, it's at least a colleague of Gojkovic's, or me. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Branka Stamenkovic: Of course. All right. Dear Members of the People, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the First Belgrade High School, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Grand Hall gallery. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24074	Thank you. Of course, Article 107(1) speaks of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly. President, punish me, it is no problem if the MP from the DJB group demands it, you punish me, and commend the MPs of the Daveri Group for the violence in this parliament, because they have announced on social networks that they will beat each member of the SNS. It's a new policy, a new democracy supported by their coalition partner DJB. And you heard that her only objection in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia was that I drew attention to what I had yesterday from the democratic action of the Dveri parliamentary group. That's the only thing the honourable letter had to say here, say - injury to the Rules of Procedure and warn me because I wasn't talking about the agenda point. Well, I wasn't talking about the agenda. I was talking about violence against women in parliament. I was talking about how democracy is gradually abolished in our country. I was talking about the Dvori MP group wanting to deal with political inexperiences. I was talking about how I should be afraid when I see a member of the Dwri MP group, that I should flee from parliament, that I should stay away in the streets. Well, I'm afraid. If this is an announcement of the beginning of the birth of fascism in our country, then I'm afraid. Then punish me, not a problem, but the bruises will last for at least 10 days, so Branka Stamenkovic will be able to enjoy being punished. It's no problem at all. Punish me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24075	My colleague Gojkovic, and you know, if we applied such a Rules of Procedure, that they would quickly run out of opposition MPs in the National Assembly. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the agenda point. Dear colleague Gojkovic spoke about everything here on the agenda. I'm really surprised, Mr. Chairman, that you showed something that I would call a strange sensitivity to Mrs. Gojkovic, so you resented colleagues from the Dveri parliamentary group for using too harshly the word that exists in the Serbian dictionary, which is a lie. You called it that he should have said that he wasn't telling the truth, and that at the same time you didn't react when colleague Gojkovic, after my well-intentioned amendment to the Ministry of Education, suggested that they should not accept the amendment proposed by thugs, fascists, false believers, false patriots. I am neither a bully nor a fascist, nor a false believer, nor a patriot, nor anyone in this congregation has a reason to fear me. Gentlemen of the SNS does it mean anything to you if I tell you there's no reason to be afraid of me? Please apply the Rules of Procedure correctly. Don't let those who are most for some reason, let's just say, insult and generalize things. I'm not going to say everything I've heard from certain members of the majority parties, but that can't be a reason to generalize the matter. Finally, in conclusion, a member of 106 was injured because I was defended and free of speech. I'm directly forbidden to make amendments. Thank you. I apologize for four seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24077	I don't understand, colleague, why did you find yourself in the discussion of colleague Gojkovic? (Dragan Vesovic: It was direct after my discussion. I don't understand why you guys found each other. You know, for example, you have a saying for a rude man, and then you didn't insult anyone, but you say someone is rude. But if you say someone's a bastard, a bum, etcetera, then you insult people. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Dragan Vesovic: For the first time yes. ) It will come out. The word is made by MP Maja Gojkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24078	Article 27. Please, Mr President, just to ask the honourable MPs of the Dveri Group, who claims that I should not be afraid of them, nor of any SNS MP, should he just say whether he supports what happened yesterday in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia? Does he support Bosko Obradovic and MPs Marija Janjusevic and Srdjan Noga, who raided the cabinet of not Maja Gojkovic yesterday, but the president of parliament, who made chaos, who harassed the employees here, who harassed members of the Republika Srpska Parliament's security service, and not as the Dvori falsely told the Serbian public yesterday that it was some kind of private security? Let him say does it stand behind me having bruises here today of three distinguished MPs from the Dwri MPs' group? Yesterday I asked for the doctor's help here in the infirmary. I got it, I got the doctor's report. Today I had to report back for the pain in this hand. So don't tell anyone here that they're making up lies, because bruises speak more than any of my words. Excuse me. You fence up on that, and then we'll be able to keep working. And you do everything you can to talk about me not talking about the agenda point, that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, that I need to be told a warning. I agree with all of that. If the victim needs to get a warning, then we're really on the right track. It's a great honor for the Twors and for the political party that Dvori will take to the next election. Well done, in advance I say, go ahead. Go ahead. Share the same ideas then.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24079	It is obvious that some MPs support what happened yesterday in the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly. Now, in accordance with Article 112. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set a three-minute break until the session is settled. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we move on with our work. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The names above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment include the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24081	You read a little fast, and we didn't hear who submitted the amendment. Therefore, Article 7 states that the structure of enrolment in secondary vocational schools in the fields of work for educational profiles is determined in accordance with the needs of the economy and the possibilities for further education of future students. What's our problem with this member? So when you plan on having something happen in education, you should plan for a future, at least for at least three years, as long as it takes for those kids who put in dual education tomorrow to finish at least those three-year profiles that they're going to need to work on tomorrow. The problem, however, is that you are not asking these companies not only to guarantee that they will hire these children tomorrow when they finish school, but you are not even looking for guarantees that these profiles will be needed for the next three years. Now, you're telling us who's missing a metallungarian today, who's short of a welder and who's a pushover today, but in this law, you're not asking for a guarantee from those companies that they're going to need those educational profiles at least in the shortest possible future, so here's three years of how long it takes for those first kids to get into that school and that education profile to finish school. That's why we have a problem with the logic behind this law, because every member of this law is talking about you being interested in having those kids working while they're at school, and when they're schooling, when they're done, that employer doesn't hire them, but eventually some new kids come to him, they also work for 70% of the minimumers and so on in the circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24082	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24083	Thank you, Chairman. Some of the previous colleagues, explaining why dual education is good and referring to countries where it has been successfully applied, have called for some facts that are relevant, but still that doesn't change the fact that dual education creates a cheap workforce that we don't need at all, that we can't afford to have it in our country. Some colleagues also said to mention what we are proposing, which is a better system. I suggest and invite the Minister to apply the Finnish system. The Finnish system has proved to be the most successful, even one of the most successful in the world, and certainly the most successful in Europe. Here are some facts that contribute to this claim. In fact, 66% of Finnish high school graduates end up going to studies after high school. It's the highest percentage in Europe. Even 93% of Finnish students finish high school. I would invite the minister to tell us what the figures in our country are, as far as this is concerned, so we can just compare and see how good the Finnish concept is, how good that system is. Also, the Finnish school system is fully funded by the state. What the MP group enough was required was for the state to start at least funding free textbooks for high and elementary school students. I'd also like to remind you of a quote from the American Imam Malcolm X that says education is our passport to the future, because tomorrow belongs to the people who are fighting for it today. I'd like you to remember this and pay attention to what we just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24084	My colleague Tepic, on what grounds? (Marinika Tepic: I have a request to read again which amendment you have read. Your amendment is next, don't worry. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24085	Just a few sentences about the famous Finnish model. You know well that it began to be created in the late '80s and that it was a technological revolution with Nokia. What should we say when Nokia, meanwhile, lost its fact in relation to other companies? The Finnish model that we now need to reflect or respect some important parts is something that they've already left, they're going to totally some kind of philosophy right now, that's another phase. I said last time it was system law, we're just impatient. We spent two years preparing, two congregation furniture arranged not to touch it, and then they started doing some serious things. Of course Scandinavian countries also have dual models. If we say that two years is a reasonable time, let's see what the market says, what's all the other stuff that's going to happen, which is employers. It's our job to protect the children, not to let something bad happen, but again we're talking about the very small percentage of education needed, which exists. If there's up to 8%, it has to be arranged. I'm saying, in a Finnish model, I have a much better role model than it is Finnish, so we coordinate our model to academic education according to the programme of international graduation or the IB model which is where and where it is contained in the system of education and basic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24086	The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24087	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues, what I keep trying to figure out, and I can't do it yesterday, not today, and that's that our colleagues across the street can't understand that we don't want to employ labour in companies that work from today to tomorrow. That's why commercial chambers are involved, and that's why you're answering one of your questions. It's planned. So three years in one manufacturing process for a serious company is a very short period. These companies plan, they have strategic plans for 20, 30 and 50 years in advance. So it absolutely does not stand for what you're saying, whether these children and that staff will be active in the labour market after three years of completed high school education. The other thing, in your day, the companies were just doing business from today to tomorrow. As soon as they don't meet the conditions when it comes to taxes, they shut down, new daughters and other firms open up, so people were out of work and we know how it ended. The Finnish model you were talking about, I totally agree with the minister, and when it comes to the Finnish model, I would like a little attention, as the minister said, there are also good and bad sides, but what we want is our model. We want a Serbian model, adapted to our terms, our market, our children. The third thing is, how do you interpret that depression is the number one disease in Finland and that they have large exports of highly trained labour to America and that they are importing the workforce of medium professional personnel from Central European countries? Explain to me, if it's a good, so much, model, then why is it like that in Finland? One more thing, I think for one of last night's speeches, I owe an apology to all the parents and all the mothers in the state of Serbia, because we heard, it might have missed the MPs, not to me, that parents would be sending children for some amount of money to go to this kind of education to support their parents. When you have parental feelings and you're a parent, then you can talk about something like that and you need to have a sense of protection. I apologize to all the mothers and fathers, because what you were talking about, from Charles Dickens' time past, that time never existed in Serbia. Parents in Serbia have a protective relationship with their children, even when they are 35 and 40, they call them children and protect them, and you have brought them into this situation because they have no job, and are supported by the parents of pensioners who continue to protect them. Please take care when you talk about it. Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24088	No grounds, colleague Jerkov, for replication. There's no basis. (Alexandra Jerkov: A colleague apologizes for something I said to all my parents and I have no basis for replication? Did you say that yesterday? I didn't hear that, so it can't be. On another occasion. On Article 7, amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandić and Vjerica Radeta, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24089	Thank you. Article 7 of this harmful law is that we are asking from the New Party of Independent Members that it is deleted, as all other members of this law, as we believe that this law should not be adopted, as the experience of neighbouring Croatia teaches us that it is a harmful intention, as I am trying to prove, the Croats gave up after seven years of dual education, Slovenia has dual education, but by reputation of Germany, and that is not what you are trying to mask here that this dual education system is also the one that is similar to the German, Austrian or Swiss model, because students have full rights there, have the right to trade union protection, have contributions paid, etc. What is further defined in this Article 7 is, as in each article, absolutely superficially dealing with what is called student enrolment, because you here state that the structure of the enrolment of students in secondary vocational schools in the fields of work for educational profiles in dual education is determined in accordance with the needs of the economy and the possibilities for further education of future students. It is clear what entities are involved in determining the need for the economy and the possibility of further schooling students, nor is it clear how the other entities mentioned in the provisions of this article will do so, nor is it clear how the allocation of students will be carried out when they are enrolled in secondary vocational schools. None of this is clear here, and that's why we're asking this member to be deleted. You will also allow me to express, in the end, the satisfaction that the high school students left the balcony of this hall, although I welcomed their presence, to no longer watch as highly educated citizens and MPs of the Republic of Serbia behave here, because in the previous days, I must say, we have listened to men constantly asking for something to be taken out here, and women have begun to strip. I ask you to grant this session further and not to repeat it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24090	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24091	Of course, since we are against this way of regulating dual education and this alleged major reform, we felt that this member should also be deleted from the law, and I think it is important to point out once again what are the principal reasons that have defined us for this approach to the debate on this law. The law is reportedly meant to solve the problem of 150,000 young people, according to the minister of reasoning today, between 15 and 24 years old, who neither school nor work. I don't see any way this law can contribute to solving the problem. Especially if we look at this law predicting that some 2,000 students will be covered by dual education, so it seems to me, if, in a generation, there are 60,000 – 70,000 students, it is a minimum number of students who will be part of dual education. Also, here we are discussing this law by emergency procedure, and, as the minister said, the law will only be implemented since school 2019/20. A year. So there's no reason for urgency, and it could have been avoided, as the whole law could have been avoided. It could have been defined by learning at work, because this law is not the law on dual education that exists in the countries we call upon, we have to repeat it every time. This is a law on learning by work, a law that will not guarantee any rights for students, which will work for a price below the minimum labour price and which is only in the interest of a small number of employers who will thus reach cheap labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24092	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24093	I thank you, Chairman. I must, first of all, react to the presentation of one of the previous MPs who claims that we who are not yet parents cannot have those parental feelings and that we cannot know what is good for our children. I worked in a private education system for years, and only everything I did was about the welfare of those children. I've been applying a very active bunch of methods from Finnish education and my results with them have been exceptional. These kids today are successful college students who wanted to enroll, so please don't pay any respects to us that we kids don't have those feelings, we have them and how. The fact that we chose to work in education and work with children, speaks and testifys about it. There's no better job than education, and I think that's what anyone who's been in that business claims. Let's go back, as far as our amendment is concerned, we are, of course, proposing to delete, because this law is impossible to fix, and we don't think this law can create children who should think tomorrow, who will be free. In that regard, I would also mention a late stoicism representative of Epictet, who said he was the only educated man available. So I advise and suggest and appeal to the minister that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, because it will not create free people, thinking people, or free thinking children, and as such children cannot make intelligent political decisions the next day and thus create their own life. We are witnessing these claims and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24094	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24095	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, however, this member speaks about the structure of the enrolment, but when enrolling students in dual education, he also needs to take special care of the views and views of the economy, as well as their student capacity. Also about how much our students have gained knowledge based on reading on one side, and on the other, on the other hand, practical classes in elementary school in a particular profession. Dear Vice President, we've been listening here for two days to an opposition MP who's actually talking about what's not in the law here at all. We have a feeling they really haven't read the law. How would they read it, if they didn't want to read books, but they burned them in the library of this high house. I'm going to finish this with a quote from Joseph Brodski who was the winner of the 1987 Nobel Prize for Literature, who said – there's a worse crime than burning books, one of them is not reading, finished quote. Gentlemen of the opposition, read books and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24096	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24097	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment speaks of the structure of the enrollment. The minister's structure has to be that way, to be enough builders, that representatives of the former regime's party have to buy apartments in Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24098	Thank you. The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24099	Thank you, Vice President. First, colleagues who recommend that we read books, recommend that they read spelling, so they should not think to propose amendments to which marks are placed in places where they are stuck according to the Serbian spelling should not stand. To express regret that some colleagues, such as co-worker Rakonjac, have joined this general witch hunt, with no children, and now respects those MPs who do not have children for caring for the general interest. So Article 8 is talking about the career development of students, and here's what our problem is with this member. The problem is that we believe that the entire career of students will be based on the lies that this law is based on, and that in Serbia unemployment is great because we do not have enough training, not because our economy is destroyed, there are no new jobs, there is no rule of law, only those who receive tens of thousands of euros per job and so on, and what is promised to these children in the light of the law, in the explanation of the minister and in the arguments given here by the MPs for days is also a lie. Three false promises that they will be able to continue their education, that they will be able to start their own business and that they will be employed by companies that work. It must not be based on these three lies that these children are told on career development and on the counseling that will be led by this occasion. So you're going from a lie, that's why there's a lot of unemployment, that people are stupid, lazy, incompetent, unprofessional, ignorant, etc. You promise them lies, and that's why this member of the law needs to be erased.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24100	The People's MP, Vesna Rakonjac, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24101	Thank you to the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, above all, I have made an apology to the parents who have been marked to abuse their children. That's how I understood. That's what's said. (Alexandra Jerkov: That some parents will do it. It's a crime against a child. If that's how it's done, but it's punishable by the law of both the family and the criminal. Please allow me, without throwing away, I listened very carefully. [[Alexandra Jerkov: It is now a replica.]] So, no frustrations, which you have because of your failure. (Alexandra Jerkov: Excuse me, why don't you respond to the chairman? Do you hear that? This is a replica. I'll wait quietly for you to finish your chat, and then I'll tell you everything I have to tell you. You've had 12 years of time to introduce a reform of education by measure and the wish of Serbian citizens, you didn't do it. Now you're stegmatizing all the workmen's professions. Why do you do this, is it a shame to be an honest worker with a good salary today, with a good life? What's this about? Why are you scaring your parents and kids that they won't have a choice? They'll have the right to choose, but not everyone can be highly educational, it's just not natural. Not in any society. I'll give you an example. You've produced previous managers for everything and everything. Here, I'm going to give you an example of this, make a manager for bakery production, so get him to give you a lecture on how to make bakery products and to charge you well and well, how you took funds from European funds to hold which educations and lame lectures to educators and sell them fog these 12 years, instead of doing something with kids and educate them, you did the opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24102	Thank you, co-worker Rakonjac. Right on the line, People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24103	Thank you, Vice President Arsic. It's no shame to be a worker. You know what shame is? It's a shame that you send a child to a factory, falsely promising to get a job, after finishing school, pay him for it 70% of the minimum wage, falsely promising to be able to continue schooling, falsely convincing him that he will be able to start his own business and apologize to his parents for saying that there are parents who live so poorly, that 10,000 dinars in the house and how they will mean, and that your parents will affect your children in combination with these lies, which you serve, to enroll in dual education, and that there is no word about any free choice of children to do so on their own. It's a shame and you should apologize to your parents for cheating on them and your children for convincing them for five years that they've been out of work because they're stupid, uneducated, lazy, waiting for something to fall out of the sky, unprofessional, that they're poor, that a better life is always somewhere else, that Serbia is swarming with investment, of progress, only to them and their family are not going because they're not good enough. It's a shame. You should apologize to them for that, and God forbid you should answer it. Because as much as you apologize to them, believe me, you won't be able to apologize enough for what you've done to them for the past five years. Not even those educators, who are full of mouths, who you've cut their wages to, or those pensioners you've kidnapped, not one man who works fairly in this Serbia, because in five years' time, only you, your members, your gods, friends, brothers and relatives, are better off, and everyone else is falling apart. That's what you need to apologize for.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24104	Right on the line, MP Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24105	Thank you, Chairman. The fact that parents live miserablely, it's your fault. It's your fault. We hire them and they don't live miserablely anymore. It's your fault. We can't fix what you did for 12 in 60 years. It was like the riding of locusts. Think about it. First we hire our parents, then give the kids a chance. How ashamed you are to abuse both children and parents in this way. When you don't have an argument, then you immediately grab on to wages and pensions, and you lead to bankruptcy of the state. Just to ask, are you taking a personal example, when you're from children, not to say with special needs, because all children have special needs, but with the disturbances in development, you took money from "Hetherland"? It's an example of how you act and how you reason and how you think. That's the way you think.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24106	I ask fellow MPs to let their colleague Rakonjac finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24107	You can't think differently, you only think that way, godfathers, friends, cousins. We think in a different way, Serbia above all, a healthy nation, an educated nation, educated children, a rising economy. You're sick of it, and you're sorry you didn't do it. You had your chance, the people punished you for not taking the opportunity. Take it once and for all. Maybe you'll get some votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24108	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24109	Mr. Arsic, you have violated Articles 27, 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You have the custom of acting practically in some parts of the session as if the Rules of Procedure did not exist. You have a problem and not only you as chairman, but obviously someone else with me personally, because one Rules of Procedure applies to everyone else, and the other Rules of Procedure apply other rules to me, because you are trying to take away my right to personal income from me an unending, pointless, unfounded reminder to silence me. You won't do it, Mr. Arsic, because I'm a radical, not a former radical, and you keep forgetting it. There was no reason for you to give me a warning except that you don't like what I said politically and because I don't allow you to take it exclusively with the Democrats against which it's easy for you. You are thus creating some kind of false picture that there is a struggle in Serbia between your ideas and their ideas, and they are in fact identical to you. The Democratic Party has had a crucial impact on the formation of your party. Now, your solution is that every time I report to me, according to the Rules of Procedure, you'll give me a warning. That's your shame, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24110	Thank you. You can feel free to be angry with me, because the warning was made exactly in accordance with Article 103. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, in the position of the 7th Parliament, which states - the President of the National Assembly is obliged to impose on a national MP who does not adhere to the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article, or in another obvious way abuses the rights provided for in this Article, lay down the measures provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure. So, you were going through the Rules of Procedure's Infringements Institute to replicate the SNS MP group and the DS MP group. You've just proven to your second discussion of the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? You want him to plead. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24111	No, I didn't say. I have the right to plead, to be heard by the people of Serbia. By the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24112	To plead, colleague Sarovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24113	So, Mr. Arsic, once again you have broken the Rules of Procedure, because you are asking me to plead beyond what the Rules of Procedure determines. So, I'm not going to plead to the conjugal actions, and I want to get a word and I have a right to do that. You've already, I've started to explain, that you've broken, I said, Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24114	If you keep going like this, you're going to get pissed off again for fines. I'm not going to give you any warning right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24115	Mr. Arsic, there's no replica on the line, there's just no deal. I'm off again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24116	Find it somewhere in the Rules of Procedure to write, so congratulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24117	What do you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24118	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I asked for word from the Rules of Procedure before Mr. Sarovic. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24119	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I don't want to replicate to anyone. You hurt Article 108 because you had to react when your colleague, let's say ours, accused colleague Aleksandra Jerkov and DS of allegedly stealing children with special needs at Heterland. If you think there was no reason to react, I think you're wrong, and I'll tell you why. Personally, along with Mr. Bojan Pajtic, I sued those who accused both DS and him personally. (Alexander Martinovic: I, as the defendants in this procedure, have the right to say. I just want to finish one sentence, so I have a right to explain it to you. The court has not yet been able to deliver a motion to the SNS, who flees from facing the court for this shameful lie, and you are ashamed, if you really think that you will get some political points in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24120	Just a moment for my colleague Bozovic, you would be absolutely right if I didn't allow my colleague Jerkov to say that SNS MPs are liars, that they lie to citizens, that they deceive them, etc. So the same criterion was for co-worker Jerkov and co-worker Rakonjac. (Alexandra Jerkov: I told the government. You're the one who told the government. Okay, I don't want to talk about eight or nine billion euros, when Slobodan Milosevic falls, or marks, or whatever it is, and salaries of two thousand marks, or the euro, so we can do it for days. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Continue with your colleague Martinovic. [[Marko Djurisic: No replica can be found on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24121	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. So, I volunteered as someone who was sued by former DS President Bojan Pajtic, because the words of Balsa Bozovic were actually directed to me, not to lie. Unlike those who don't have the courage to mention names and pretend to be ignorant, I don't have that kind of fear. So, Bojan Pajtic sued me, because I said on several occasions that he, the Director of the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina and the Capital Investment Fund, had embezzled more than one million euros of state money that was intended for reconstruction of so-called. The castle "Hatterland", otherwise it is a ruins that are absolutely not adapted to the housing of anyone, and especially not children distracted by development, and therefore Bojan Pajtic sued me. I showed up neatly, without a lawyer, at all the hearings that the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad invites me to, but there is no Bojan Pajtic. Bojan Pitiæ doesn't show up. Now, that's the problem. Mr. Bozovic, as far as I'm concerned, you just keep...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24122	Please, colleague Martinovic, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24123	So, I'm talking to you, just let them continue to press charges. To meet Mr Balša Bozovic in the course of the proceedings, the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad called incompetent, transferred jurisdiction to the Supreme Court in Belgrade, and the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad is po...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24124	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24125	... The appeal by Bojan Pajtic annulled that decision and returned to the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. So, tell Mr. Pitiæ, I can't wait to hear the call for a new hearing, so let's hear the witnesses I've suggested about the robbery of children distracted by development.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24126	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica! ) Slowly, my colleague Bozovic, turn around, look at the rules of procedure. The word is Marinika Tepic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24127	Thank you, Chairman. I have to ask you right now, since you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, who you're afraid of, so you have to work with Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24128	Say at least one, no more basics, but at least one. It's been a very few seconds, and you interrupted me. Let me finish my sentence so you can hear what you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24129	So, who are you afraid of, by the way of the Rules of Procedure, you give the replica to Alexander Martinovic, who replicates... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24130	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go. (Marinika Tepic: Article 103. Why are you interrupting me? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24131	Mr. Vice President, I ask you to listen to me carefully, I am reporting to Article 100 and Article 104, and I ask you to explain to us, have you introduced a practice that allows SNS MPs, or is that valid for all, that a replica to the violation of the Rules of Procedure is allowed, or is that something that applies only to Mr. Martinović? I'm interpreting that he's replicating himself, which we saw in his political career that often happens to replicate himself on the allegations he made a few years ago. So does this only serve in the case of Mr. Martinovic, who replicates his own exposure, or is it allowed to replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure? With that in mind, in any case, you have violated both members of the Rules of Procedure, regarding what I have asked you and I ask you to answer. Secondly, by misusing the Rules of Procedure, you have allowed Mr. Martinovic, by old practice, to judge before the court, conduct investigations and do all that... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24132	I understand, colleague Vidinović, what it's all about... (Maya Vidinovic: I'm not finished.) There's no need, I'll explain now. counterpart Rakonjac was granted the right to replicate because of her presentation, and counterpart Martinovic received the basis for the replica because of the mention of the political party and the parliamentary group. Now, in the meantime, from gaining the right to replication to receiving the replica, they were a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Do you understand? (Maya Vidinović: No. Don't you understand? (Maya Vidinović: You don't understand, obviously. I understand perfectly. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24133	Thank you. On several occasions, it is also said that nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say when, in what second, we are obliged to specify the provision that we believe you have violated. This is when I advertise Article 103 of Item 5, although you did not allow me to complete the criticism at your expense, because you are not managing this session well. Namely, you are obliged to explain when the MP indicates that you have broken the Rules of Procedure, not to comment, not to throw or abuse the red light on the microphone as you wish when you chair, thinking that you are above all of us other mortals here in the National Assembly. You're not that. If you want to debate, get down to the parliamentary benches, which has begun to be practiced by Maja Gojkovic, and I welcome it. Or, if you don't have the vice presidents available to replace you, set a break, which I also welcome. But don't comment on it. I don't know what kind of numbers it is. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24134	Article 103 of Section 5 says this - if he considers that the injury has not been done, the President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation, and if he considers that the injury has been done... It has nothing to do with what you're saying right now. (Marinika Tepic: Yes. )......................................................................................................... The president of the National Assembly is required to remove the injury done. Now, fellow Members, in order for me to understand your violation of the Rules of Procedure, since I am very unintelligent, don't first tell me about the explanation, but give me the basis on which the argument arises, means the member of the Rules of Procedure that I have injured, which I have broken. And when you write the amendment, you write the amendment first, and you give an explanation. I guess you learned that. Also, in every act... (Marinika Tepic: Don't teach me. I'm teaching you Rules of Procedure, since you haven't learned in a year and a half, it's almost two. So, in order for me to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, you must first know the Rules of Procedure, as well as any other MP. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day, because there is no Assembly on your previous breach of the Rules of Procedure about which to declare because you did not specify a member who was violated? Yes, you do. All right. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24135	Article 27, Mr. Chairman. Let me tell you right now, I'm not asking you to make a statement about this. Since the issue of addressing myself has been raised here, I am just a moment ago, carefully listening to that call to address a certain apology or certain apologies, it is indeed seen as an address to itself by those who have said so, therefore, by a representative of the Democratic Party. That's why I want to apologize to the citizens of Serbia. That's why I picked up the phone first. So, I'm talking to you, and I apologize to the citizens of Serbia, for everything we need to apologize for. [[Alexandra Jerkov: Is this a replica or an injury to the Posniks?]] For example, for half a million lost jobs at the time of the "yellow company", I apologize. I apologize for the fact that someone can take care of the poor and fly to the Maldives without any work experience and credit. I'm sorry. I apologize because someone can assign vineyards to themselves and then play some honest guy here and keep his head up. I'm sorry, too. (Maya Vidinovic: What is this, the chairman? I also apologize for the fact that some will have representatives, or candidates for mayors who participated in the separatist stands, who are working against the interests of this country. And I apologize for that, too. I apologize for still hitting some of the fact that they were caught on Sunday the moment they embezzled money for children with developmental problems. And I apologize for that, too. (Alexandra Jerkov: What is this? ) I apologize for every euro in Dragan Sutanovac's savings account, I apologize for every hour he has, and I apologize for every photograph of him. I apologize for every square metre on Dragan Sutanovac's pasture. I apologize for any purchases... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24136	A fellow Eagle... (Vladimir Orlic: I did not apologize until the end.) ) Col. Orlic, based on Article 103. Rules of Procedure, I am subtracting two minutes of time from the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, based on the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Orlic): I didn't hear you, Mr. Chairman. I'm saying you lost two minutes for further discussion due to abuse of the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Orlic: From the authorised representative or from the parliamentary group? ) From the parliamentary group, the Rules of Procedure are foreseen by the parliamentary group. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24137	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Chairman, Article 108 and Article 109. You ladies should have already given notice, given that the members of 108 and 109 contained what not to be done by the MP during their discussions. Risking you taking two minutes with me, and I don't think you have a reason because this is about Article 107, I don't think they had enough builders to finish Hetherland. They didn't have an educated frame. The children were distracted in the development, but because of politicians with special needs, from Novi Sad. (Maya Vidinović: Warning! Is it possible to allow this? ) "Peljesanovici", "barajici", "mutibarici" took a million euros. Today they violate the dignity of the National Assembly when they deny it. The lady was in the government, which gave a million euros to children distracted by development for politicians with special needs. The lady was in the government where funds were given to make coffins, and to return it to the District government in coffins, which was not done fortunately, but the funds were not returned. But that's why he broke up with the lady's 100-square-square apartment behind the District Executive Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24138	Comrade Rističević, it is the same for you as for his colleague Orlic, two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Now, in accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a three-minute break. [[After a break.]] We're moving on with our work. Dear colleagues, only for those who wave to their offices to read Article 112. - If the president of the National Assembly can't maintain order on a regular basis at the session, he'll set a break until order is established. So, regular measures. Regular measures are not an expression of warning or exclusion, they are extraordinary. We're moving on with our work. On the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojić and Zoran Krasic, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivković, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24140	The Honorable Chairman, there are more colleagues here looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. It's very illegal of me to try to speak while they're looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure, and on your part, it's unprofessional to have a session like this, to allow only your party colleagues to report for the word by the Rules of Procedure, to get a replica when they have no basis for it, when they talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24141	Continue according to your amendment, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24142	All this is about the way you've been running this parliament, the way you've been running this country for six years. This is evident in this law and in every member we asked to be deleted, including in Article 8. I'm a member of 8. – career management and counselling of students, if not for this part on dual education, could and should be found in the Law on secondary education. Of course, in a law like this, it's harmful, like all the other members, because dual education, as you've imagined here, I'll repeat, is not a dual education. This is learning with work, but unfortunately this work will not be adequately paid to students, they will receive only 70% of the minimum earnings in Serbia and will thus be exploited by employers. The question is how they will be given knowledge, and they certainly have no obligation to introduce these young people later into their production process, hire them, and give them a career. This is the obligation that you have to introduce with this law, the obligation of the employer to take on the career of those students who will go through dual education, and this is how they will remain nowhere. They won't have a job, the employer won't want them, unfortunately they won't be able to continue their education, one significant part of their education will be denied because they won't have enough time for general education profiles and for electoral subjects. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24143	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. He gave up. Here you go, colleague Boyic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24144	Let's wait on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24145	All right, hold on. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24146	My colleague Arsic, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and give your first word to your colleague, Sarovic, because the report of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure has precedence over any other announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24147	Do you want to talk about your amendment or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24148	I want you to respect the Rules of Procedure and give the word to your colleague, Sarovic, who, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the privilege of reporting.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24149	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24150	Thank you. I will also ask you to react because those of us who want to explain our amendments can't do that while all the while there are loud appeals from another sector, which you pretend not to see or hear, who are persistently trying to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure on your part. Can you continue to hold a session in accordance with Articles 27 and 108 so that we can all work and explain our amendments? I can't get into the explanation of my amendment without having gotten the conditions for it, while my colleague here insists on distracting me, I can't hear myself while he tries to get into your view and explain to you that you give him the word for hurting the Rules of Procedure. Are you waiting for my time to run out?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24151	My colleagues, while you are prepared, the word of Natasa Jovanovic, the MP of the people, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24152	Mr. Arsic, you think you're funny, and you're not funny at all. I think you see quite well. So you violated Article 27. Rules of Procedure. The moment that Nemanja Sarovic, deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group, called for a word, as well as a colleague of Marinika Tepic, you, regardless of your personal sympathies and antipathies, must chair and the deputy secretary, is also obliged to warn you about it and to look at the hall for the word, who is in the system, to give the word of counterpart Sarovic. Every time something reminds you of your close or distant past or something you don't like, Mr. Arsic, you have a chance to learn from a colleague named Sarovic or something new from us. So it would be better for you to respect the Rules of Procedure and, as soon as my stay is over, I do not want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about this, give the word of counterpart Sarovic, or I will report for the word by the Rules of Procedure all the time. (Vladimir Djuric: Rules of Procedure. ) (Imanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24153	My colleague Jovanovic, I would like to learn something from my colleague Sarovic, especially what he has learned from me, which means that the student has surpassed the teacher, but in this case there is no room for it. Otherwise, as for advertising and a persistent attempt to get word of injury to the Rules of Procedure, I can say that, in accordance with Article 112, I have set a break to establish order at the session, which means that there is no longer a right to replication, there is no right to infringements of the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Djuric: According to the Rules of Procedure. Because I couldn’t even begin the session, and there was a replica. I didn't do anything so I could do the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? By amendment, MP Dubravko Bojic. He gave up. (Vladimir Djuric: Rules of Procedure. I report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure most directly, colleague Arsic. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24154	Dear Vice President, this is about the career development of students and certainly the school should encourage this career development, the student formation of its team, and in other words, it was a former professional orientation. What is important now is that the representatives of the opposition always honor us for why we are not working faster on changes in education and education. For the truth's sake, I will now present in one minute ten characteristics of education and education, and double there and it belongs, to see what kind of situation they have left education and education for us. Number one, politicizing education and education. Under two, red tape, antipedagogisation very dangerous. Under four, commercialisation, under five sorosions, under six quasireforming, under seven broad fields of corruption, under eight imitations of the fight for quality of teaching, under nine inefficient systems and under ten Americanizations. There you go, gentlemen, which is why we are not going faster into the process of education and education to bring him to the level of reform. Let me say that the reform has been initiated especially with this dual education law. Since the former regime should have passed this law on dual education, and has not brought it 14 years ago, the consequences of which will be felt by many generations and not only by feeling but also by removing the consequences that have arisen, and they are very difficult, one of the most difficult in Serbia's history. So let me say that this law on dual education is really a first-class pedagogical reform step both the Serbian Government and the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24155	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the school can encourage development I know best, because I went to Engineering School and all the craftsmen from the metal profession who had training, we had to have short training to be able to understand them and to interpret technology, etc. I worked at IMT, after that, and I agreed to do metal, globular and locksmithy work. At that time, IMT produced a tractor of 48 thousand pieces, today's value of over five hundred million euros, plus a connected mechanism. That's how much we lost thanks to these... We lost the whole IMT, we lost what GDP is, and worse still, the old good IMT master didn't get a chance to pass on their knowledge in practice to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24157	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24158	Mr. Arsic, you have violated Article 27, you have violated Article 107, you have violated Article 103, and who knows how many other members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. This is my fourth term, Mr. Arsic. I have not yet attended this scene. There have indeed been many violations of the Rules of Procedure, many of those who have led the meetings of the Assembly, many who have punished me for no reason, but I have not yet experienced such behavior. You are obliged to respect the National Assembly, to respect every MP, all MPs here are equal, all have the same rights, all have the same obligations. You suspended my right to participate in the session, in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you gave me a warning even though I reported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, listed three members of the Rules of Procedure, you did not allow me to explain. After that, you listened to representatives of your parliamentary group who brutally abused the Rules of Procedure. You've realized it, but of course it didn't occur to you to give them a warning. You set a break and then you broke the Rules of Procedure again. Set a break for three minutes, started after a minute and a half, once again broke the Rules of Procedure. Refused to give me your word, once again broken the Rules of Procedure. Giving other MPs the words that came after me, broke the Rules of Procedure again. What you did, Mr. Arsic is talking about you. And you insulted me by saying that I was supposed to be your student. I've never been to anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24159	Thank you. I had no intention of insulting you, colleague Sarovic. I apologize if you felt offended. As for your advertising of the Rules of Procedure and your first violation of the Rules of Procedure that you gave, based on your discussion, you have just expressed disdain that the debate in the National Assembly is being held between the SNS and DS parliamentary groups. We can take a look at the stenogram. I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure, but jealousy that you're not involved in that discussion. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yes, you do. The violation of the Rules of Procedure Vladimir Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24160	Thank you, Chairman. I will advertise a breach of Rules 158 of Paragraph 5, but I could also be a member of 103, which states that the breach of the Rules of Procedure has an advantage over other reportings. So this is the direct injury done because you did not give me the word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure earlier, but you gave the next speaker who had just finished his presentation before counterpart Sarovic, who also reported to the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to Article 158(5), the amendments to their amendments are prescribed to be interpreted for up to two minutes. counterpart Tepic, unfortunately, was disabled, and spent a minute of a maximum of two minutes of amendment time. I want to appeal and draw attention to bringing the debate to the agenda. I understand that the bouts of merit for the '90s, the Hetherlands and so on generate conflicts. I understand that conflicts favor a particular group of voters, but there are also voters whose MPs are sent here to do their job seriously, to stick to the agenda, and to appeal that conflicts in this house are unheated and that this is not the way to attract audience attention. For such an audience there are other television channels and other television programs, which are not served by the National Assembly. The National Assembly should work on the Rules of Procedure. Whoever thinks he has a right, and even if he is a lawyer, let him not abuse the time to argue and the home of the National Assembly for such a thing. (Vladimir Djukanovic: When are you going to learn what a legal remedy is? ) I also ask you to warn your colleague Djukanovic not to earn. I mentioned lawyers, as a profession I respect, I didn't mention any MPs personally, and I'm distracting in two days we spent only 600 minutes of 84 minutes of amendment time. There's 515 minutes left. So we'll be working hard for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24161	To save two minutes, that's how much you get for breaking the Rules of Procedure, that's what you get. I asked if anyone else wanted to address the amendment where Marinika's colleague, also one of the applicants. No one answered the word, and I continued with the next amendment. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24162	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advertising a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the 107th violation of Parliament's dignity because I didn't throw anything away here. I just showed my colleague to learn what legal medicines are, that he doesn't waste his vocabulary, when he doesn't know anything about it, and that he's not laughing at the whole editorium, and of course he's not embarrassing this congregation. If it was my sin, I'm sorry for suggesting it. Don't take it as a throwaway, and I'm well-intentioned to tell you to learn what legal medicines are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24163	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) (I Nemanja Sarović:According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirović, Balša Božović, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marijanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stavanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: The man answered, he did not give him his word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24164	Mr. Arsic, a moment, please, attention. So, the man responded to the amendment, maybe the system didn't work, before me for amendment number eight.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24165	A colleague of Bozovic's. A colleague would have called, but he shouldn't have come forward from Nemanje Sarovic, it's not an error in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24166	So, what is a member of the 9th responsibility of school students and employers. So, not only is this amendment predicting that students will work, that children's work is being introduced, after 150 years of returning to our country's children's work, but if they don't work zealously, they will be expelled from school. Article 9 speaks clearly of student obligations. If they do not do as employers tell them, if they do not work on the jobs that employers give them, which can absolutely have absolutely nothing to do with schooling, but represent the cheap power that is being used. It's your policy, taking advantage of children, to make someone profit, if some student doesn't want to do it, if they rebel, if he wants to complain or strike, then he can be expelled from school. So what do you offer someone as an alternative if they don't do everything the employer tells them to, and they have absolutely no right to go to school anymore? So you're absolutely leaving him on the street, uneducated, ignorant, and killing him every opportunity to have a future.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24167	Thank you. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24168	Mr. Arsic, you have violated Article 103. You have violated Article 107. I'll start with this last member I mentioned. He says – a speaker at a session of the National Assembly must respect dignity, that it cannot be addressed directly, use offensive expressions, etc. You said for a moment, it was also heard in a direct transmission as chairman that Mr Dubravko Bojic, who is my dear friend, was not allowed to report from Nemanje Sarovic. It's an insult, it's a shame. I'm not someone who can forbid any MP from calling, nor are MPs from the SRS group afraid of me. Here I am feared, exclusively by MPs of the ruling coalition, and politically. That's why I, Mr. Arsic, am the only MP who has been suspended from the right to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the only one who, for no reason whatsoever, at least not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is making warnings. You let me stand again and you gave me, three MPs received a word, even though I applied for the Rules of Procedure, and you heard it, all heard it in the O.R., but you went around it. (Marian Risticevic: I'm not. ) Here, Mr. Marian Risticevic is not the only one, he says he isn't. Therefore, Mr Arsic, you are required to hold a session in accordance with Article 27 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What you thought your argument would be, you wouldn't let me talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, because you thought I was jealous. That's what you can do to someone else, and you've violated my right to Article 103(6) to ask the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day, without argument, but I have the right to ask. I can only ask through the microphone when you give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24169	I thank my colleague Sarovic. Since you have been acting as my victim throughout your discussion of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I can inform you that you are the current MP who has suffered the most injuries of the Rules of Procedure in this day. As much as you appreciate that the Rules of Procedure should be respected, I can see that you have already asked for a word again about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I have made no shop that I could harm the Rules of Procedure, except to answer you, but you cannot say that it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I said that on your previous injury to the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly pleads, because I have the right to ask the Assembly to declare whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure or not, I have the right. You have an explicit right, but so do I. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Since I see you're holding the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I want to see the Rules of Procedure. ) Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. On the 9th amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivković, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić, Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24171	Here, we continue this discussion of dual education. We have received a new minister, possibly a new agriculture minister, who has come to symbolically bury secondary education in Serbia, because this law, unfortunately, will not bring any improvement in secondary education, and thus also education in Serbia. That's why we're against this law. We were also opposed to the principle debate. We've made amendments to delete every member of this law, including this member. The member speaks of student responsibility, protection of students' rights and, unfortunately, what we have repeated several times is that Serbia's most unprotected workers will now be students, who through what this law calls work learning and will receive a 70% minimum profit for it in Serbia. For this work, they will not be paid social or health insurance, they will not have insurance, if, eventually, God forbid, there is an accident at work. That's why we're saying this law won't improve the position of students, it won't improve the position of workers, on the contrary, all the opposite. Students will have a reduced amount of knowledge they need to acquire through secondary education, will be reduced aspects, a reduced chance of doing good and better paid work in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24172	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The word is by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24173	First of all, do I not see the Minister of Education?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24174	counterparts, and Mr. Nedimovic is authorised in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, so the government has an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24175	You know, I didn't read anywhere that Minister Nedimovic would...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24176	You can read it in a memo from 1 November 2017.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24177	I'm sorry, I got a memo. But I find it a little inconclusive by the government, when you have in this way authorized a man who is authorized to be a farmer to be authorized at the same time for education. So these seem to mean ministers of general practice, as things stand, which is actually not good. I intended to speak as a parent both as a man and as an MP to the Minister of Education, because he made the impression of a very serious man and one of the few serious ministers in this government. So now I have no inspiration to speak as I would say the Minister of Education is present. What I could say is maybe a little absurd now, if I read this article now 9. It's something that we as an SRS have determined to delete because he's an absolute member who doesn't say anything, so it's pointless in total. Now, if you read it, Nedimovic, how will you do when you haven't even read it? You haven't read any laws, let alone read the amendments you've now come to give some opinions. That's what you're laughing at. Please. So this is really unserious work. This is a really non-serious subject. You are this topic that is most serious in Serbia today, where I am as a parent bitter, and on behalf of all the bitter parents, to these laws, wanted to say very seriously about it, you have now given me the Minister of Agriculture, who at the same time as I speak throws away, or does not show some respect for the MP, and how would you, if you were not involved in this matter at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24178	My colleague Vukajlović, I let you finish your discussion, but if you expect someone to treat you with respect, so do you. Not a gentleman in front of you, Nedimovic, but Mr Minister or Minister Nedimovic, etc. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic: But he is not the minister of education. That absolutely has nothing to do with it. He is an authorised representative of the proposings, and the proposal is not the Ministry of Education, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24179	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 107. The dignity of the National Assembly was injured, for the simple reason that when I entered the O.R., there was no longer a Minister of Resort. I know that you sent a notice in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but what is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is that we are today discussing not in principle, but in detail. How can Mr. Nedimovic, Minister of Agriculture, know whether an amendment should or should not be adopted, since absolutely nothing to do with the topic of the agenda has his portfolio? So how can he answer the questions asked by MPs in line with the amendments when absolutely his portfolio is not concerned with what the agenda topic is, and that is how Serbia will look in the next 30, 40 and 50 years and how and how will we prepare young generations to grow up in this country? So, for the simple reason that it is a very wrinkling topic, very defined and very important, I think it is necessary or that we stop working until Minister Sarcevic arrives or you can set some sort of break, so we wait for the Secretary-General to return to the O.R. and then we can continue to discuss the amendments. This is how we mock all those who think this is important to them, and this is how you tell them that this is a completely irrelevant topic for both the government and for you and for us as MPs by sending the Minister of Agriculture to defend amendments, or the law on dual education. It's completely out of my mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24180	Your exposure had no touch points with article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24181	And Nedimovic has dots with dual education?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24182	Okay, don't throw it away. I listened very carefully to you, even though you didn't say anything about article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24183	I did. Dignity is compromised.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24184	Okay. Well, it doesn't matter what I say. You have your views. Since the proposal is for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if I have to teach you, it is okay for anyone who is a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be authorized... (Balsa Bozovic: Well, you could have other... Don't throw it away, MP Bozovic. Let the sentence be finished once. You don't care what I say as chairman. I don't want to bother myself or the other MPs. So, the promoter on the list is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24185	Thank you. Perfect metaphors for what we're talking about. on amendments to the set of educational laws, currently dual, but the programme also includes amendments to the law on pre-school, primary school and secondary education. So, I understand Minister Sarčević's absence, I met him yesterday in the hallway, the man complained, he got the temperature, and I get why he got the temperature. I'm surprised we all don't have one here already, but I don't know how the government didn't think of that, for example. He sends a minister in charge of digitization, rather than a minister of agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24186	Dear Members, you have reached out to Article 9 which speaks of the responsibility of students, schools and employers, and I ask that, in accordance with Article 27 and my powers to lead parliament, follow the Rules of Procedure and speak of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24187	I'm asking you not to take my time. My amendment is – it is deleted, because the entire Duo Education Act needs to be deleted. Please don't take away the time I'm entitled to. You just took half a minute from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24188	Because you don't want to talk about an amendment per article 106. You're obliged to speak by amendment because this is a discussion of details.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24189	My amendment reads - is deleted because dual education is not a concept for the future of our children. Our children need a reform by a Finnish model that involves digitisation, not the agriculture we're going to be talking about here right now, now, and in the future, because there's a minister of agriculture. I agree that we should take a break and, if Minister Sarcevic can't, let another minister come to us who will lead us to the future and not in the 15th century.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24190	Dear Messengers, I understand your creative enthusiasm, but you've made a mistake. This time we talked about a member of the 9th responsibility of students, schools and employers. (SNS emissaries earning: Take her two minutes. I won't take two minutes away from her. She spent her time on something that was not in line with Article 106. Do any of the promoters want a word? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24191	Thank you, President. I must confess, unlike the previous speakers, that you lured me into the smile of Minister Nedimovic when you showed up. I'm so happy the government didn't, for example. Minister Vulin sent to replace Minister Sarčević, and on the other hand, I am pleased, you are fully aware, of course, that you have the opportunity to accept the amendments on the spot and I am sure that you will do so, because you are a rational and reasonable man and that from this moment on there is an objective chance for the amendments to the opposition to be accepted, including this amendment of the New Party and the Club of Independent MPs to be deleted and Article 9. The dual education law and all the other members of the law. This sends a political message that this law is extremely harmful, that it is the way to legalising child labour, to become a cheap workforce in the Republic of Serbia, and that we disagree deeply. Also, let me inform you that, I don't know what they passed on to you as they prepared you for this session, probably, but all the deputies of the government have said so far in favor of this law, in order to promote this law, is pure fiction, and especially in the part where they attack us that we are against professional training of high school students. That's just not true. The law on secondary education also exists. He's changing at this session, too. High schools continue to exist. Of course, the student practice should exist, as it existed decades before you and before us, will exist after us, so that we are against the practice of students who will learn for their future professions, but we are against child abuse for the benefit of Alexander Vukic, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and employers who are being set up, unfortunately, students as the cheapest workforce, but I am sure you will understand that and will adopt our amendments. Thank you to Vlad, if that's appropriate, for what the plezer did to us, as they would say, and for sending one yet rational minister, not Vulin, to good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24192	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24193	Mr Nedimovic, perhaps you have an answer to the amendment to Article 9, in fact, that the arguments that we have already presented to the public and Minister Sarčević that the SRS thinks that we should not introduce dual education into our education system, I will also give on this particular case, since it is the responsibility of school students and employers. You know very well, Mr. Nedimovic, as resolute minister, that we have excellent secondary schools when it comes to agriculture. From my neighborhood is the most famous one in Svilinc, but there are many across Serbia, where they came from, as technicians and future agro-engineers, exceptional experts working today in our leading institutes, private companies, some in ministries, etc. If we didn't have to do this, we'd be making an example of these kids who would choose some interest in agriculture, in the way this law predicted, they'd be in a very subordinate position. They will not be in the same situation as when children from the Svilinac High School are now going to practice certain properties or agricultural combinations, the moss is destroyed, now I don't know how they are organised, or when they do so with the help of the Agrozadnica of Serbia, but they will be forced to go to those employers who will be miserable for their work. Mr Rističević, even with me in the village, from where my father is from, is the village of Katrga, the municipality of Čačak, the municipality of Mrčavci, since Mrs Gojkovic and I are in some way a country girl, including in her Upper Trepca. There are hardworking children, all over Serbia, helping their parents, and who has a mini farm, who has cattle. You yourself know that there have been a lot of contributions, indeed to admire, how children from the Aryan region or from Priboj, from where Krsto is from, help parents grow different cultures, but they help their households, their parents. So parents have been getting used to their children since we were kids working, like our parents, grandparents, and we used to spend summer vacations. This is going to be really scary now that these same kids have to make up for some minor compensation, which can be a lousy 5,000 dinar, which is five times less than a fixed minimumtor, to work 35 hours a week as they learn, so why can't they do it in this normal system, which we already have, learn in professional schools? You know, Mr. Nedimovic, you should be against dual education and you should advocate to accept this SRS amendment submitted by Mrs. Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24194	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24195	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, I want first, first of all, for all of you, and for the public, to say a few things about my presence today. Minister Sarcevic will appear very soon, in the next 45 minutes and don't worry about it. If agriculture, one of you, let's not generalize things now, is not so important, I believe that the presence of agriculture in the entire dual education system can be the most felt, and what my colleague Jovanovic just said is in favour of it. The other thing, as far as agriculture is concerned, just one more thing to say, we're looking at the future, not even the past, which we're not ashamed of, so the words that were presented to that cause don't stand. The third thing I want to say, and absolutely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Government has proposed a person who will be present at the session and my respect in this way, according to this distinguished home, is that there is no pause, but we are coming to do from the moment it was determined to the Rules of Procedure. I'll remind you that this Rules of Procedure has been around for many years, and absolutely you all know, much better than I do, that everything here is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that regulates the work of this respected home. The things I'd like to say, which relate specifically to this amendment. If respect for the amendment that is said to be deleted, there would be absolutely no one's responsibility. That's when the whole law would be unthinked. Just before the claims on respecting the amendments have been made, be absolutely calm if you convince the applicant of the purpose of your amendments, do not have any doubt as to the acceptability of certain amendments. There's no apriority here that anyone wants...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24196	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24197	I'm sorry. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24198	There's no replica. Well, it can't, it's just explained why there's not one minister, and there is another. You can discuss the amendment, if you like, for the rest of your time. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Can I help you? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24199	Dear President, this is about dual education and obligations, on the one hand the students, and on the other hand the obligations and the school, and the employer. Let me say that education and education is the basic foundation of every society. If so, and so it is, then education in general and education has first-class importance for Serbia's modernisation. The importance of education and education for society, including dual education, was best shown in the 5th century by Greek philosopher and educator Plato, who said: "The state will not be harmed if the shoemaker has no idea about his trade, only the Athenians will be badly shoeed, but if the teacher is a bad parent, the future generation will be ignorant," the quote concluded. As a result, this law on dual education in general is extremely important. Unfortunately, our misfortune, too, I would say, the former regime did not take account during Serbia's rule on dual education and education in general, so it resulted in a devastating situation in all segments of education and education. During the former regime, education and education were left to a verse without real reform, whose consequences could not have been predicted, here, as you saw, neither the great Plato through quoting his thoughts. As a result, education and education from school, family, small screens, and other factors of education disappeared. Instead of education and quality education, and education through work and work, they left us corruption, the former regime, not education, the ruined image of teachers and staff chosen exclusively by the party line, whose consequences will be eliminated for decades. That's why the president of the Republic of Serbia was right, when he put Serbia's modernisation in his exhibition in 2004 as the main task, and thus modernising education and education. What's important, I don't think opposition MPs have understood the spirit of dual education. It's this Article 9 that speaks where dual education is performed. Gentlemen, he goes to school and his employer. So the school teaches and learns with work and exercise, and with the employer practices. Furthermore, it is not true what they try to deny that students cannot perfect themselves after completing dual education. They are more quality, trained and better educated in this concept of dual education and better prepared for the continuation of college education or, in other words, for life. What is important is the full responsibility of the role of the school, and that means the teacher on the one hand, and on the other hand the employer to conduct practical teaching. So, with that in mind, let me say, however, that our opposition MPs who have criticised and rejected all this law today, I feel like they haven't really read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24200	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24201	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is where we heard the representative of all the bankruptcy directors say they didn't want agriculture. Three times a day on a plate, and no agriculture. Agriculture is the way it is – exhausted by various gimmicks from 2000 to 2012, has an exit worth 2.7 billion euros. This country was not ruined by peasants, they were creating it, Karadjordje is the best example of it, and it is an insult when someone says no agriculture, it is an insult when they say that the Minister of Agriculture has nothing to do with dual education. PKB, Futog, Valjevo, Svilajnac, Pogorjevac, Šabac, Ruma, etc., most with the home of students, most with practice, most with income. They still need to know that if we want modern agriculture, big subsidies, we're going to have to have education for adults, because people won't be able to get subsidies if they don't know. It's the peasants who learn all their lives. If anyone says – we don't want agriculture, we don't want education through work, then forgets butchers, bakeries, phytosanitarys, etc. It's all coming to the area of agriculture. When representatives of the opposition say – we do not want agriculture, that, my dear farmers, is talking about them, but it also speaks about how much they really cared about agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24202	Thank you. On behalf of the above members of the 10th and of the 10th Amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24203	Thank you. The amendment to Article 10 speaks of students being protected from psychological, social, physical, sexual and other violence, discrimination and everything else. So, what's here, Mr. Nedimovic, is that you know for yourself -- nobody's going to take care of the students who are working on the hardest jobs, in factories that will often have absolutely nothing to do with what they're going to be schooled for or have like bending cables, it's not some craft, you'll admit it, or work on things that the Government of Serbia today offers open jobs, which is that they stand 10 hours behind the tape, when they won't be able to go to the bathroom, so they'll have to buy themselves diapers or as in "Lira", Mr. Nedimovic, when they've concluded a contract with a taxi station, or a taxi to drive them into the Emergency Center in case they pass out. That's what it's all about. In such jobs you cannot guarantee, I continue to speak to you, of course, you cannot guarantee neither Mr. Sarcevic nor you, that some student will be protected, absolutely not. Neither does labour inspection nor does other competent services. I thought I'd be able to convince you, unlike Mr. Sarcevic, to accept at least one of these amendments and so fall the whole law, because, believe me, this law is not good for Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24204	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24205	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, here we are, listening to the floscule. I am truly sorry, first of all, that we have turned the debate on such a good legal proposal, that is, that the opposition has turned into a collection of cheap political points, dealt with day-to-day political matters, but the law is really good, as is good and Article 10, and I don't think that Article 10 should be changed in any segment in the proposed legislative solution. In fact, this is about protecting the rights of students, we see that the student is maximumly protected when it comes to this legal proposal, but not only in this segment. It's a little hypocritical of who this proposal comes from, and we protect those students by hiring 140 thousand of their parents to work in factories, unlike those who protected them by getting their parents thrown out on the street, and not a small number, 400 thousand people on the street, so now compare the weight of the protection of students and children in that period and now. Whether it's about hiring their parents, whether it's about protecting them or about this bill. In the end, we certainly won't support that proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24206	The Members of the 10th Amendment in the same text were together Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta, together Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraja and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24207	Thank you. Article 10 of the proposed law on dual education has the title - Protection of the rights of students. In paragraph 1, it is numbered by which all laws will protect the right of textbooks, but there is, for example, no law that regulates social security. So, these rights that these students, as workers, would have from the Social Insurance Act, so pension, disability, etc. There is no law. We think that's how the rights are reduced. There have been several issues raised here in the debate, that the opposition is opposed to children learning through work gaining practical skills. The tendency to degrade secondary vocational education and people with this kind of education and this level of education. The thesis to belittle jobs for such educational profiles. Unfortunately, there are no jobs like that, if there are, they are paid in a way that allows for a decent life. I said in the tide, and I'm just taking advantage of the opportunity that the Minister of Agriculture is here, so I'm going to say again, there's no one to drive a combination, 53 years old is the youngest combiner, in a village with the highest quality country in Serbia. Also, no parent who lives in that village wants to spend his life driving that combination, because he knows that his child will live in problems and poverty, as they do in those villages where there is an unsettled infrastructure, in which there is no adequate medical care, so for a simple medical examination you should drive unsettled roads until you get to the infirmary for any simple medical examination. I'd have given my child a dual education if he'd shown his affinity and desire to be an auto mechanic. But I'm sure he'd want what I'm telling him right now - if you become a quality auto mechanic of it, you won't live here. Why? The reasons lie in everything you haven't done, and you've had seven years to do, so even after seven years, you've been calling on the previous authorities, waving, equating us all here. Seven years. God created the world in seven days, in seven years things could have been done, and they didn't. It was mentioned here yesterday that it takes quality and in practice trained builders to raise hotels, yes, but if we produce quality builders. It will not raise the hotel industry in Serbia in itself. Take the medical profession, in the medical profession, people train by studying with work. From high school through college, they are located in hospitals, in clinics, health institutions. Children in high school tighten their beds to patients, etc. We've got work learning. We don't have a contract on labour and wages, 70% minimum wage, to call it dual, but it's very similar. It speaks of practical skills being forced in addition to theoretical teaching, to make it easier for such high school students to become good students of medical schools. So did this training in the medical profession improve our level of health care in the country? No, it's not. Did such training with the medical profession prevent us from draining doctors and all healthcare professionals of all profiles abroad? It's not. Why not? Ask yourself. You've had seven years to think and find answers. Time's running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24208	The word has a national emissary, Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24209	With this amendment, we have proposed that Article 10 be made. The draft law on dual education erases, because in situations where one's rights depend on several unrelated entities it is very difficult to protect. The draft law on dual education protects the interests of the employer, not the student. This bill has many shortcomings and great opportunities for abuse. The bill stipulates that learning through the employer's work is implemented between 8.00 and 20.00 hours, for a maximum period of six hours a day, or 30 hours a week. There's a question of what happens when a student spends more than six hours a day at work. It pays more to the employer to use the students as a cheaper workforce, not constantly employed workers, as student compensation is lower than a working minimumtor who is often paid off in a disorderly manner. We also have a situation where employers unwarrantedly increase working hours and reduce wages, for example For failure to comply with norms or other only known reasons. In this case, there is room for the impatience of workers to the students, in which they see the main culprits for such a situation and do not want to be instructed into work, or they do not want to be explained to them. Then, it is not clearly a specific job, and it is not clear exactly which jobs the student will be doing, and what are the jobs that students can do, instead of the student who came to the employer to study the profession, the trade, employers giving them the most difficult and dirty jobs to do. So they're doing secondary jobs, and they're not learning, which directly endangers their rights. There are a number of other shortcomings in this bill that violate students' rights, where they are directly discriminated against. It would be best if this bill were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24210	The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24211	I thank the presidents, we have come to Article 10, which is to protect the rights of students and we from the New Party, we are asking that this member be deleted as well as all the other members of the law, and if you really want to protect the rights of students, once again I recommend and appeal to you to withdraw this law from the procedure, that you do not sin against our future high school students and that you do not convert them into the cheapest workforce in the Republic of Serbia. That burden is very difficult to carry with you, especially because you're a man of the profession and you know what that means. What I further want to point out is that here we are in some controversies, not to say constantly from the MPs of the government, hearing about how we are either not reading the good law or having very bad intentions or at some point, I remember well, yesterday from fellow Djukanovic's findings when he said no one would work and set an example that we don't have elevator drivers. I remember that very well. You know what, colleagues, that atmosphere was created by you. You created the atmosphere that should not be worked, that no one should be taught, that no one should perfect himself, because it is enough to have a SNS membership card and that it will be a guarantee of his life. He doesn't have to study for a diploma either, because he's going to buy it, he doesn't have to have qualifications, because he's going to get a job under the consent of the finance minister, in addition to the Employment Prohibition Act, and that's quite enough. You created that atmosphere, not us. Don't put something on us that doesn't stand, which is a fabrication, which is eyewashing, but on your personal case show...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24212	Thanks, time. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24213	It's less important, but it's not like anyone here won't read or think either exclusively or. Well, either one or the other. No, he won't read or think. That's what we said and it turns out now. So, once again on the subject of who can be hired, whether he needs a SNS membership card, so let them agree with each other, let them talk a little bit, extract each other. We have already pointed to people sitting on the other side of the hall and are happily engaged in state institutions. So, even in the public sector in Serbia today. Of course, they are not members of the SNS, but are members of their parties, movements, associations of citizens, young philatelists, what they are. So, most normally these people work and have no problem talking about the worst country they work for. As for working in the private sector, who doesn't understand, that, I think, can just pretend he doesn't understand. No private will destroy itself just because some imaginary political genes fixed it, and they're able to repeat it a hundred times a day that it is. Well, neither in Serbia nor in any other country in the world. They come in nicely, they open up the drive, they hire workers who are good enough to get them a business result tomorrow and make a profit. What would you say? It's just like a cookie. A hundred and forty thousand jobs on this sound basis in Serbia have been formed. If someone doesn't like it, let them not want us, let them tell the citizens of Serbia, let them have 140,000 conversations and explain to those people that it's not good what they're doing, that they're much better off on the street that they've driven them off to, and when the atmosphere is not working. Once again, just look around. If it's the highlight of working arrangements and work ethics, to assign yourself a vineyard to sell it for hundreds of thousands of euros later, and all day long pretend to be a philosopher half-breeding, well done, but that's never been our work ethic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24214	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24215	As an amendmentor, I think that this law absolutely does not protect students' rights in any way and that what article 10 says is absolutely not enough to protect students' rights. The right student should protect the Ministry. The rights of students should be protected by the Ministry of Education in this country, not by the fact that we expect the rights of students to protect themselves under the regulations of the field of work. So, according to that Labour Act, by which everyone in Serbia knows that workers have no rights whatsoever. Don't be fooled that workers in Serbia have some rights, so now that you've got students and children 15 to 18 years old with workers, it's clear to you that neither those children will have any rights and that the only thing they will be able to do is work in a job that gives them an employer for a salary of 30% less than the minimum wage. It all comes down to cheap labour and large capital interest. So there's no protection of students. It's also what's written, it's written in general, where you can't know what it means, what jobs they'll be able to do, what jobs they won't be able to do. You say - the employer realizes part of the plan and programme of teaching and learning. The employer is responsible for the systematic and quality of learning through work, and now employers will educate those children. He's not going to educate, you know, the employer has his own interests, he's leading a huge profit, he wants to have an even bigger profit, and he doesn't care if our kids learn anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24216	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24217	I would like to thank the President. Of course, according to the amendment, I will also use the time of the parliamentary group, and the first time of the mandated president, as deputy president of the parliamentary group, given that the president is not present at the session. First of all, I would ask all of us here to take care of the spoken word. The responsibility for the spoken word is great. Undermining a situation relating to dual education, to a kind of banality and triviality, can cause major consequences. I don't know how aware we are of these consequences. If children are simplified and underprivileged, and these are our children, students, and where they label themselves as cheap labour, identifying with some kind of slavery, all that should be regulated by this law that I'm sure will be adopted, then it's the most difficult insult for both children and their parents. It is not the meaning of this law, and so are those who propose amendments absolutely convinced that it is, not the meaning of this law to be abused, to be used as a hired workforce. It's a matter of essence here, and the point is to convert theory into practice, and that means that the theoretical knowledge acquired during schooling cannot have the effect that is expected without practical work. The expected effect can only be achieved by practice, a practice that cannot be implemented anywhere but in employers. And this is not the only legal institute known only in Serbia compared to all EU countries, including the world. Almost all EU countries have such or very similar concepts of education. What's wrong with that? It has even been said that the Labour Law leads to the abuse of employee rights, that workers are being humiliated. Well, this very labour law is valued by the EU, as a law that has reached that degree of harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU legislation. If that's the case, then what's the problem? I really think, first of all, as a man who has children, who have been educated and educated, that and that we must bear in mind that we must get from them useful citizens of the social community. In order to be a useful citizen of the social community in full terms, then we must enable them to have education that implies that the theoretical Corps of everything they have learned can be applied in practical terms of the words of the moment when they are able to do practical work for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24218	Thank you. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24219	Thank you, Chairman. I've never had a chance to talk in parliament before, and I'd like to say next. Here we always get to know each other in the morning, one proverb, which is still in effect this time. From the very beginning, as the session begins, no matter how much the minister explains the law, no matter how many MPs try to explain the law, the opposition always reacts. They're just criticizing without giving any solution. That's why I'm saying that after morning, the day is known, because theirs, to say the rationale essentially comes down exclusively to criticism. These amendments themselves, which are given, speak only of once, that education is essentially very important and I am glad that the opposition understands. Education really is very important, and I can say that I like the minister very much because he says he's a team player. So what's done isn't done by him himself, it's done by an entire team of people behind him and we need to respect that. I would also tell the opposition only one thing, which is obvious to me here, that many people experience brutal pleasure in condemning and attacking those who are more successful than they are. That means you've accomplished something and you're worth the attention. In this case, the ministry and the minister are worth the attention, and that's why you're attacking them so much. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24220	Thank you. The 10th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24221	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this member and amendment speak of child protection. Protecting children means teaching them to protect others. Whoever had protection will know he appreciates that protection and won't endanger others afterwards. Through dual education are created, not only good masters, but also good people who socialize, help each other, go on cell phones, etc. There's rarely a bully or violence among them. Dual education is better, Madam President, than dual education. We are witnesses that those who resent us mostly apply dual education. Work protection goes about like this, she says – says she had a stressful situation at work, when a few people fell into her office, says they were shouting, threatening, upset, dizzy, unconscious, she didn't lose consciousness, but she has a feeling that her heart is pounding, working fast, feeling tight in her chest. Is that something you know, Madam President? This is the dual education of these guerrillas, the two-parents. They're so trained, they all have dual education, and this is the medical report from the Caves of March 28th. There are those here who were present, two-parents. So, on 28.03.2017, this is the incursion, this is the incursion that was repeated yesterday in the Assembly. Three MPs of the National Assembly fall into the municipality of Caves on dual education, carpenters, guerrillas, and strangle the secretary of the municipality of Pećinci, I warned of this, which is the woman. So they did it again. And today, those who support these carpenters, and here are the photos, when they entered the Parliament of the Caves, told the porter to kneel, and he was a disabled man, when three MPs came. That's what they said. These are their flags, 50 of them accompanied by minors. I guess he's being trained for that dual education. Then they say we're making it up. The president invented dual education. Now, these are the carpenters and their future coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24222	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24223	Dear President, Article 10 speaks of the protection of the rights of students. What the representatives of opposition parties didn't understand or didn't want them to understand, or it was both, is that not only the law on dual education but also the law that we recently passed in this high House, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and this Law on secondary education and education, and, besides them, the Labour Act. Never in the history of school and pedagogical ideas was a student more protected than right now in these three laws. Therefore, their intentions are indeed very bad. What is still respected in certain student rights, the student has the right to continue schooling at any university after dual education. So no one's denying those rights. The former regime's representatives always honor us for not having the right to do so. I really don't think they've read the law, let's not get angry. I suggest they really read it, and it seems to me that it's a bad quality, reading it, because they burned the books of the high house library. I will once again quote Joseph Brodski, who won the 1987 Literature Award, who said, quote: "There is a worse crime than burning books, one of them is reading." It's a finished quote. Gentlemen of the opposition bench, read books, read laws, for the happiness of our students and parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24224	The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24225	Thank you. I have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure to report. The law refers to Article 103(3), which states that the chairman of the National Assembly is obliged to give the MP who appears after the breach of the Rules of Procedure the word immediately and that this has priority over the reporting of any other, i.e. that reporting to the Rules of Procedure is immediately after the injury has been committed, which you, the chairman, have not done. I answered, kept clear of the Rules of Procedure while he was severely violated by MP Risticevic. At the time, I wanted to report a breach of Rules of Procedure, paragraph 109, paragraph 1. - the warning is given to a MP who, in addition to the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda, as MP Risticevic did so along and across. In line with Article 109's injury, I ask that you punish first of all Ambassador Rističević, who did not stick to the subject, and then give yourself the punishment for not warning him, although it clearly states here that you had to warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24226	I'll think about your suggestions. The word has Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24227	We believe he's a injured member of 108. - the order of the session is to be the old president of the National Assembly. You gave the previous speaker your word to speak of something that is not part of the agenda. I propose here that the service introduce one "lazymeter" or "blassimetre" instrument and that every Serb MP who starts to lie give a warning about what he said...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24228	It's Jeremy's party.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24229	No one was drowning in the caves...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24230	The People's Party is Jeremic's party and there are no MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24231	I admire how much you manage to lie to this... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24232	MP, just because you're committing violence in Parliament's rooms doesn't mean you can tell others that they're lying. Secondly, Vuk Jeremic has no MPs, I cannot punish any MPs. Thank you very much. (Ivan Kostic: How can you listen to the lies of Marijan Risticevic? How can you not be ashamed? () Ambassador, refrain from it, respect the MPs and this House. I believed you were different, at least you, but you weren't. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24233	Mr. President, Mr. Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted to Article 11, an amendment in which we propose that it be deleted, for very specific reasons. Here we are talking about conditions for learning through the work of employers. All these days, and when we have spoken in principle and these days when we talk about the amendments, we are talking about a special position that practically children will have and that this is a special position that you have not in any way specifically protected, not only specifically protected, but you are banalizing all the arguments that come to you from the opposition MPs who are very argumentative, who speak very clearly that children will not have the same chance with such a reduced fund of lessons and knowledge that their comrades in other schools have. Children who will be primarily defined for dual education because of their social status, i.e. Only in theory have a chance to take a prom that's a chance to get into college. So, the arguments that they all have a chance to continue schooling fall into the water precisely by the provisions of this law, which you ignore and have these populist, political statements that really nobody cares about. When we talk about conditions for learning through work, in the first position of this member I don't know, Minister, do you understand what's really standing here? You say that carrying out a work that allows for the realisation of learning content through work, would be prescribed by an appropriate plan and teaching programme. What does that mean? That says a lot, and it doesn't mean anything. You know, when we talk about minors who will be de facto workers, cheap workers, you should try, if you put it as a priority for the future, to make dual education a priority of this government for the future, to especially stricter mechanisms, especially stricter conditions, which are stricter not only than the Labour Act, but all relevant laws that apply to this area, you prescribe it. When we talk about conditions for learning through the work of employers, there is nothing to be said about the situation of students who are in dual education in several very clear situations. For example, when a contract is concluded with the company, when most of the foreign companies where these children will learn to escape the country because the government decides at some point to abolish subsidies. (Marian Risticevic: Time.) I'm using a few seconds of parliamentary group, you don't have to intervene. What happens when companies where these kids do change technology because students on some machines, machines, whatever, the moment they start dual education, they'll be overcome? These are things that should be conditions that should protect the students from standing here, not what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24234	Thank you. Here you go, Mikhailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24235	I'm just saying that the best students in dual education can graduate from college by being recognized immediately in the first grade, and despite regular school education there is so-called. extra class. Don't be surprised, I come from education, I've worked here for 38 years. Additional teaching, an individual teaching that will, of course, make it a small percentage for students to be able to, in addition to becoming good masters, be able to finish college. What I want to tell the citizens, the employer's student does not do what the employer tells him, but what he writes in the curriculum and the program. If the employer can't get him to do what he says in the curriculum and the program, the school is breaking up a contract with the employer. With a student, he is a teacher of practical teaching and a representative of the employer who went through training through the Chamber of Commerce of a given city or municipality. Therefore, the conditions in which the student will work and train are optimal. So until he's 18 all the time, he's a student, not a worker, to be clear, whose rights are fully secured and the school makes a contract with several employers. At the time when the employer cannot fulfil his obligations as prescribed by the curriculum and the program, the school is obliged to terminate the contract, suspend that co-operation and withdraw it, can withdraw its students to schools, and schools are required, and will be kept in the care of the ministry, have appropriate cabinets, where in the schools and classrooms, besides theoretical teaching, I have done so. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24236	The word has Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24237	Thank you. The previous speaker said that children will be protected by all rights. So they don't have all the rights. If permanent disability and permanent loss of student working ability occur, he has no right to a disability pension, he remains permanently crippled for life and incapacitated. Thus, such a situation is not dealt with by law. They don't have a PIO, they don't have social security, they have a health book from their parents, and that's all. Here, give me an amendment, a promoter or a ruling majority to write that legal void is resolved. It's about child safety, so patch that hole up. We don't have to propose an amendment from the opposition, but someone from the ruling majority can iron out that deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24238	Thank you. Minister Mladen Sarcevic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24239	I thank the MP who said that we have introduced several measures of protection, that this law is only part of the law on secondary education, behind them is the roof law on education and education systems. In current practice, every three and four-step high school model that has school workshops, where the work is simulated as if it were in a factory or another company, means we have a teacher of practical teaching, but unlike German, Austrian, all other models, we have installed in ours an additional protection measure. Not that instructor, he's a technology-only instructor, he's got little pedagogical skills, until he gets them, but we've introduced that category of coordinators, they're working on the team, etc. So there's no significant reason for this to happen under some expected bad outcomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24240	Thank you, Minister. (Vladimir Djuric: Replica. You have no basis for replication. (Vladimir Djuric: By amendment. ) According to the amendment, here you go, colleague Đurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24241	I thank the minister for his previous answer. Yes, the instructor, the coordinator, it's all right, the working conditions, there will probably be companies that respect European standards when it comes to working conditions and when it comes to working security, protecting their workers, not all employers in Serbia are such that their workers work in non-secure conditions. But, I repeat, what happens if a 17-year-old student gets hurt in that work and gets a permanent and total loss of ability? When it happens to a full-time worker, he gets the right to a disability pension. What happens when it happens to a 17-year-old student? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24242	Thank you. (Maya Vidinović: Replica. You have no basis for replica, colleague Vidinović. On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and Vjerica Radet, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a folk MP, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24243	Thank you, Chairman. The SRS parliamentary group also proposes to delete this member of the proposal for a dual education law. Article 11 shall specify the conditions that the employer must fulfil in order to carry out his studies through work. The SRS parliamentary group does not recognise the solutions offered by this bill as a type of education in Serbia's secondary vocational schools, and we all know that laws are passed in a context in which they should be applied, and in this proposal, the desire law does not meet in practice. These legal solutions lack the attention and commitment of economic operators who collapse to engage in their application. We all know that children are a very sensitive social group, and this bill is a major part of the freedoms and rights guaranteed to them. At best, and that the aim of the promoter is the need to protect the right to education, you have seen for yourself that you also potential the context of the economic and social rights of children. The kids will work 70 percent of the minimum wage, and we're not far from the risk that employees will get fired because they'll have a cheaper replacement. Since it is impossible for amendments to act affirmably and correct this law, our position is to withdraw this and this kind of proposal from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24244	Thank you. The proposal is proposed by the amendment MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24245	So we ask that Article 11 be deleted from this law because, like everyone else, this concept of dual education proposed by the ministry be such as to lead to unfair competition and cheap labour, and in no way reduce unemployment. The fact that these members are foreseen as conditions that the employer must meet, which is available to the required number, for example. licensed instructors, it's clear to all of us that it doesn't mean anything, because that instructor is licensed by someone from the Chamber of Commerce training him in 40 hours. No one can train in 40 hours to become so professional that they can pass on knowledge to others, because if they could, then there would be no need to predict in the Law on the Foundations of the Education System that for teachers who teach professional studies in schools they must be people who have graduated from college, or master studies. So the workers will be trained in 40 hours and will carry knowledge further, and they will be licensed by the chamber and if the employer has these licensed workers he has met the conditions and if there is room etc. Of course there's space, there's a machine that works for him in the factory, and someone needs to work for that machine. The essential condition to be entered into this member, which is missing, is that there is an obligation for the employer to get a permanent job at a three-year or four-year school in learning through work afterwards. That should be a condition for employers. Those who commit to hiring our trained students in a permanent working relationship can participate in this program and get full pay in a permanent working relationship. This way they're just cheap labor, and no guarantee they'll get a job afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24246	Thank you. The amendment is proposed by Parliamentarian Branka Stamenković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24247	Thank you. We propose that this member, like all the other members, delete this proposal for a law on dual education, because we believe that this law should not be passed, that it is premature to adopt this law because dual education is not a solution to the enormous amount of problems our education suffers from, but will serve as an excuse to accept these problems as normal. In order to even talk about the concept of dual education, we must first reform from the root of preschool and primary education. Preschool must be available to everyone and absolutely free of charge for children at the beginning of primary education to be in the same starting positions, which is not the case today. Since that's not the case, since the system is unfair, through preschool and primary school education, then we have a favorite of children better-standing parents who have to pay for everything that's only a sausage for free in our education. So our education will be fair when it's completely free and we suggest that as a first step, we make textbooks free of charge for all children. We have calculated that this is quite feasible, getting textbooks for all children in primary schools on an annual basis costs 0.15% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. There's nothing more important to us than to relieve our parents of financial pressure as soon as possible and start with our textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24248	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24249	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I have reported that I am talking about this amendment but I will also talk about all amendments that read – it is deleted because the profession is now on my side and on the side of the MPs and on the side of the SNS who are today persistently trying to return the debate to the draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24250	Comrade Žarić, just a moment, I'll make it up to you, you can talk about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24251	Yeah, I'll talk about this amendment. I'm going to talk about the amendment that I've come to and I'm trying to say that today the profession is on my side, on the side of the SNS MPs who have been trying hard all day, so we've been trying to get the discussion back on the draft law on dual education. The proposal is important, and it is true that today is the second day of debate in the details of the proposal for a law on dual education, but we are finally now connecting the economy with education and this is a very important topic and it is necessary to talk about it. Of course, I would agree absolutely with the government's opinion that this amendment, too, is to be deleted. In the principle debate and today we have listened to different arguments, but what I do not understand is why the opposition that has the opportunity to be constructive and to help make these proposals even better is not constructive in this sense, but it explains that the laws that we are making are harmful, that the laws are even nonsense, that we have different variations of the fear of the people, that we are legalizing children's work, that we are making cheap labour from our children. Please be more constructive in the debate. For all these reasons, I will support the government's opinion and the decision to reject such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24252	According to the amendment, MP Djordje Vukadinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24253	I don't know how much of my time I have from the parliamentary group, just in principle, to say that they are very potentially important and important and can be the crucial amendments that are said to be deleted. Some fellow MPs spoke of it many times. It can also be pro-form, and it can be essential.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24254	I will make up for your time, but I will have to suggest to you, as well as my colleague, Zarić Kovacevic, please talk about the amendment under discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24255	That is exactly what we have a proposal for an amendment that reads – is deleted and we have a remark that these are bad amendments. I wanted to say that they can be, and I don't want to steal much of your time or your colleagues' time, so, but they can also be cruel amendments. We have a series here, hundreds of really important amendments that are submitted and tolerated because they come from the ranks of representatives of the ruling majority, and here you see, if you have a bad solution, then the proposal is deleted very useful and constructive. I think that in a particular case, therefore, the amendment of a colleague is exactly the same as a number of others. Please pay attention to the content of these amendments, not to go to whether or not they are deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24256	Thank you. On the 11th amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24257	Dear Vice President, this is about learning through work in two places, that's what's important to say, on the one hand. On the other hand, we are rested once again that we want to produce cheap labour through this dual education law. I pray indeed the opposition MPs not to plant, and I believe, especially those who are highly educated, and also those with middle-readiness, because that's what they do in high school economics textbooks, let's clear up in a minute two, what is meant by labor. Here's one definition. Under the workforce, we mean a set of mental and physical abilities. I'm undermining the mental and physical abilities that exist in a man's living personality that he runs whenever he wants to produce the useful value of any kind. Is there anything unclear about the dual education law? Will the Members of the People's Parliament be a cheaper workforce if the student learns only theoretical teaching regarding the use of the workforce or if he uses the production part of the teaching, etc? Therefore, do not lie to the parents of the disciples, the public of the disciples, but really present to them the way it is. It's this law that we're fighting for work, richly paid labor. It's not like anyone who doesn't have practice gets paid better, and all he has is a theory. Allow in the end, since the former regime should have brought this law on dual education 14 years ago, and today it is fighting against it to be passed and it has not, and it has brought education to the lowest possible extent in the history of education and pedagogical ideas of the Republic of Serbia, and the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic has initiated the adoption of this law on dual education, which represents the first-class teaching reform step of SNS and the Ministry of Education and his minister, Mr Sarčević, over the past 14 years, which is why this law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24258	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24259	Comrade Milicevic, you still have to take care of what the MPs are talking about. So here we have a situation that Mr. Atlagic does not speak, and must...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24260	Please, the member who's been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24261	Article 106 has been injured. He has to talk about the amendment he suggested if he speaks as an amendment. He proposed an amendment to add a decimal between the words "work and su. He must explain to us why he considers it necessary to add a decimal between the words of the work and are in the first position of Article 11, rather than replicating other MPs, to explain something that the others said or did not say. Please take care of it and you know it. Look at the amendment and ask him to talk about the amendment. The same goes for a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24262	I don't think I hurt the said article 106. I ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24263	I apologize to my colleague Konstantinovic as well. First, let me say, the injured member is 107. I wrongly told my colleagues that my colleagues wanted to put it between the words of work and were stuck because it seemed to me that it was their fault, because it was not in accordance with the spelling of the Serbian language, and now I see in consultations with my colleague Vukadinovic that the ministry, that the government put it so, so please Mr. Sarčević, the subject and the foreword in Serbian cannot be separated by a comma. Let someone lecture these laws before they come to us. It is a shame that the Ministry of Education is proposing laws that do not comply with Serbian law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24264	Comrade Jerkov, what did I hurt the Rules of Procedure you're pointing at? Talk to me, not the Minister. Following the amendment, i.e. the amendment-proposing MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment isn't just stuck, the amendment reads like this (the MP by hand points to the amendment), this is the whole amendment. So what it contains is one change from the government's proposal, but the text we suggested is this. One reason is to further strengthen the government in a proper effort to access dual education. What's going on right now isn't that much of a cliber when Pavicevic suggested it, I guess because someone's supposed to graduate there, and we know who's on the other side. But let me get back to the amendment. So it's the terms... (People speaking out loud) They can earn as much as they want, a wise man can't interfere. The conditions under which an employer can hire students, it is here that I am glad that no bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated. Imagine if someone went to a dual education at that high bankruptcy manager, he would teach him to play guitar, so it's good, and we change it to support it that he can't go to someone who's in bankruptcy, run by a bankruptcy manager, because we think that 235 thousand masters top-notch in a criminal enterprise fired a party of the former regime and bankruptcy managers together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24266	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24267	So this is about the conditions that the employer must fulfil to carry out learning through work and our observation and our suggestion is that these conditions be as strict as possible, when it comes to this solution, to be as strict as possible, to ensure that the guarantees are as firm as possible, and therefore we have suggested this proposal of five years of abundant activity, these kinds of activities that these students engage in. We've heard that a five-year-old practice can be some sort of guarantee, and in that sense we've suggested this change. We thought she couldn't hurt, she was generally on the line of what she is and the intensity of the law itself, and I think it's a shame that that amendment wasn't accepted. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24268	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members of the 12th and Article 12th Amendment, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24269	Yeah. The DS MPs have suggested that this member be deleted as well. It directly refers to the previous article that we have told you in detail, which is next to the goals of dual education, and the incredible values that in the 21st century 2017, you represent as the priority of reforming education, so one of the most important things is also the conditions for implementation and learning through work. Since we are in a recent attempt to argue why this is set wrong, no stricter protection conditions for the work of minors are prescribed in any way. As for Article 12, what you have prescribed, which also means nothing, as prescribed in Article 11, here we are talking about verifying the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 11, which are some kind of declaration that you do not understand, we have seen, and you who defend this law. What we had just had opportunities in replicas of our argument, which is why this law is wrong, that is, this member of the wrong and the law, of course, we had an amazing statement that children in the first grade of high school, they would recognize whether they were for college or not. I think it's a very precise political message, that it's not a lapus. I think a fellow MP from the SNS didn't make a lapus, but that he was seriously behind it and that's all the wrong intention of the SNS, which has been translated into this law, translated into all those activities, all of what you've been doing these years. You should give them equal chances for all children, to provide them with quality education which according to the Constitution all children have the right to quality education and primary education and secondary education, and not to force children in the first grade of high school that they decide then whether to continue their education or not. That's amazing. The government should enable an ambience that will allow equal chances for quality children to recognize their competences, which are 21st century competences, not the competences that are forgotten. Denying equal chances is something that's deeply wrong, it's not a lapus, it's a message from the SNS, and I think it's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24270	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24271	Equal odds, of course. Just as anyone will be able to choose whether they want to go to one or that kind of schooling, as much as yesterday, as much today, and just as much tomorrow. If he's interested in high school, he'll be able to choose each one according to his own free will. If he might be more interested in going to high school, if he's interested in a certain college, then he'll be able to choose everything as well as he could yesterday, so he can do tomorrow. Don't worry about those who cared about the most important thing was whether the equal chances would apply to those who had driven them to the street and to those who were party close to them and for whom there was always everything, including various, very lucrative jobs for the state but also at every other level and in any other sense. As much as they cared about equality, they showed. Thank you, there's no need to show us and to assure us further, but that success we're talking about, now that we're already in the debate on who's proposing and what kind of argument he has for his proposals. Is success, as you said, that someone here gives himself the right to comment on other people's amendments and other people's explanations, and that explains it in the amendment. Now listen to this - the amendment is the result of the amendment. The amendment is due to the amendment, the ultimate literacy, and I have to admit, and this is written in virtually every amendment that the great experts have suggested or to ask for the position of the score, and in each amendment it benefits, instead of the point. I have to admit, great expertise, great knowledge in every sense and equally unserious, as well as she talks about free textbooks, but not only about free textbooks, but also about free computers and philosophical dilemmas -- whether fruit is the same as vegetables, the same as snack, which we hear from those citizens' associations up there. All that together, ladies and gentlemen, as much as it makes sense, there are so many results. Not only those negative results for the citizens of Serbia that you showed, but the results in the elections, the censors, look all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24272	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Mihajlo Jokic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24273	As a math teacher, I can identify the student when he gets on the board and takes the chalk and starts doing his homework. Whether he solves it or not, any experienced professor can do it. I said that right away in the beginning you can see who needs additional classes, which should be done on a higher level, which should give students harder tasks, which, of course, continues in the second and third and fourth classes, when a final decision is made and creates the possibility that individuals who have had an extra education all four years or all three years and whose fund can successfully finish colleges. I am responsible here for saying that those who have graduated from dual school, who have graduated from high school, who are good masters, who are able to graduate from college that they are the best university-educated workers in their profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24274	Thank you. The 12th Amendment was submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Zoran Krasic, together by Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković and LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The amendment is proposed by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24275	Thank you. The MP of the Independent Members' Club also predicted the erasure of this article, because we believe that the law is bad and we have taken the removal of all members. We don't understand why the ministry is running away from education. Several laws have recently been passed and we are not really clear why the Ministry of Education is running away from education, so that education has once given the Ministry of Finance to educate immobilisers, sometimes to the National Academy that civil servants are schooling and educating, and now we see that the Chamber of Commerce has gained unwarranted great importance in the education of young people. How do we interpret this sentence, Article 12? - Serbia's Chamber of Commerce educates the Commission to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out learning through the work of the employer, in the following text of the commission, for an educational profile or a group of educational profiles? In the proposal for this law, we know nothing further, no closer provisions are given on the composition, conditions and criteria for the election and the mandate of the members of the commission. So, what commission is it, what are the conditions for it to be chosen, we really haven't seen in this bill. As long as the term of office of members of the commission is not seen, we also believe that it is absolutely inadmissible. This Chamber of Commerce cannot have that much influence on the education of young people. And that's why we have every reason to believe that young people will be cheap labour and that privileged employers will... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24276	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24277	Thank you, Chairman. As far as this amendment is concerned, we have also submitted an amendment to delete this article, because we believe that this law is impossible in any way to correct and any amendments. You are aware of the ministers themselves, and I believe the other MPs, if they are well-intentioned, that today's education of students to a large extent, if not to a crucial extent, depends on the financial situation of parents. Let's just remind ourselves of the fact that on Bloomberg's list of misery for 2017 that Serbia is in eighth place. So Serbia is the eighth poorest country in the world. Let's remind those who may not be as directed as this index of misery forms. It is formed by taking into account inflation and unemployment rates. Unemployment in Serbia is huge. So let's not let tomorrow's education of children, their education depends on the material situation of parents. Children, in a huge number of cases, have to give up their dreams, their desires, their efforts at education precisely because their parents cannot give them adequate education. So I urge you to start concrete radical reforms so that free education can be made available to all students and I urge and appeal that we begin by making the textbooks free of charge for all children of primary and secondary schools. We carried out a calculation that says that only for children who are schooling in Belgrade, the figure is about 5m euros. So if we give up unnecessary costs, such as masts, such as fountains, which do not serve anyone, we can provide children in Belgrade, but after that in other parts of Serbia free textbooks. It's one of the preconditions for quality education and really equal chances for everyone and everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24278	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24279	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were just talking about what it is, what all of these conditions the employer needs to meet, and now the next Article 12 determines who it is who's going to check that the employer has met the conditions. According to the concept of your law and according to your proposal, checking the conditions is the Chamber of Commerce. So the employers' association checks the employer's compliance with the conditions. We believe that this is not acceptable, that it should be the ministry that checks whether the conditions are met, that the ministry should form a commission, that it is not enough for one representative of the ministry to be on the commission, and that the whole commission is formed by the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. We could even call it a conflict of interest. So, the employer responsible for conducting the study through work, the employer meets the conditions, and he is practically checked by his Chamber of Commerce whether or not he has fulfilled it. In this way, we have a deep suspicion that the employers involved in this program will actually meet the conditions. The Ministry should be the kind of thing that checks it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24280	Thank you. The word is made by MP Nikola Savic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24281	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this and other amendments to the SRS express their views on this law. We are honestly convinced that this law is inadmissible in practice. It's inapplicable for a number of reasons, and I'm going to name only one here that my fellow MPs spoke of today. In fact, the vast majority of employers will not be able to meet the conditions required by this law. It may fill a small number of them and some foreign companies. Something smells like this law, like some other law, and it's real because of these foreign companies. If that were the case, here's an example. A few days ago, I had a chance to talk to the owner of a private company that deals with the excavation of the country. He told me literally like this – ask you upstairs your colleagues in the Assembly and the Minister do they know how much an hour's work with a bulldozer, with a bogeyman? Then he goes on, I literally quote him, and he says, "Am I crazy to train someone with my machines, to train him for free, and to pay him for all this? Then I'm adding here, even if a man agreed to it all, the question is, where do we find this base where they could train, where they find a field, a meadow, a urchin, a pasture, or whatever, and we know that, say, a barbarian, a fork, a crane, that these are the deficitary occupations that fall under the provisions of this law? So, first of all, this law applies to profit. He's obviously interested in profit, and it's not education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24282	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24283	I believe that this amendment should bear in mind that there is a partnership relationship between what education is, between what the ministry is like as a hat in the field of education, and what is production, what is a factory, what is a drive. We have a learning category here through work, and therefore part of the teaching and learning programme comes from what is the production process, which is the technology in that economic operator, so, in any case, this partner is the most competent for the program and for meeting the conditions. For these reasons, it is natural for the Chamber of Commerce to be the one who is on the other side of the cap over economic operators, which assesses the fulfillment of the conditions. So here we have a full partnership relationship between what is learning in school and learning through work. What you learn through learning in work, what you learn in the factory, in drive, in production, cannot be studied at school, and vice versa. It's a new kind of co-operation that gives the next day experts who will also be theoretically booted, and on the other hand, absolutely in progress with everything that's just technology and production flows, which wasn't in the earlier period. For these reasons such an amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24284	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24285	As with this previous one, the 11th and 12th are bound by the amendments and regardless of what we are isolated from this group of colleagues, I agree generally with what most colleagues have said. The conditions are undetermined, quite undefined, now that I don't waste time, so that we don't read, that's that they're not convicted, that they're not punished, that they meet the conditions, and then as a body, as an instance that will determine whether these conditions are being met, the Chamber of Commerce appears. It is the content of our amendment which is next, but the point is that, and there is a colleague Konstantinovic right 90%, which would say that one body that is essentially an employers' association should assess whether the employer meets the requirements. This has been a problematic formulation for us since the beginning, and that is what our next amendment applies to. Too great a burden, too much responsibility is attached and puts one body in your hands that, in our sense, is not qualified for it and, if something has to be done, if it's going in that direction, it's better if the Ministry takes full responsibility, and not that, as it stands, the Ministry controls the Chamber that determines, if I understand correctly, the fulfillment of the conditions. Then the Ministry is a higher instance, a control post. Mr. Minister, since you're already going, as was the previous law, then I said okay, it's in the direction of centralization, but okay, take responsibility to the end, so then we know who to praise or who to criticize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24286	Thank you. Comrade Stevanović, you are in the system, do you want to speak again after the amendment? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24287	Thank you, Chairman. I have very closely followed this debate over this amendment and, of course, the untrue is generally all that has been said in the interpretation of the amendments. It is correct that the Chamber of Commerce will certainly exercise control over the fulfilment of the conditions for the employer's participation in continuing work. What is definitely false and what has just been said is important, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, that the ministry will not have insight into meeting these conditions. That's not true. Simply, above all, respected citizens of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce forms a commission, according to the law, teachers in the field of secondary vocational education and education, labour inspector and ministry representative. No wonder about who this qualification comes from that the Ministry will have no insight into the fulfillment of these conditions, since it comes from a man who, I can't forget, laughs at people who died in NATO bombing today, accusing his country of causing bombing itself, not taking care of children who lost their lives in those days, of the feelings of parents of Milica Rakic, parents of children in Blue, etc. After all, we also heard an explanation by the representatives of the DJB parliamentary group that, my God, we are creating cheap labour, that not everyone will have equal opportunities. They'll have equal opportunities. They have to learn that not everyone in this country can be a bankruptcy manager who will set up jobs for his godfather, his wife's firm. Not everyone in this country can be the winemaker who raised the vineyard with a national money of several hundred thousand euros. Not everyone in this country can be Deputy Director of Post Office for 150 thousand dinars, etc., etc. Someone in this country has to work, to deal with the trade, so in this respect I suggest we reject this amendment and certainly support the proposed legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24288	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Ana Stevanovic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group. You have a basis for replica, because the DJB parliamentary group has been mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24289	I'll use it anyway. We agree, my colleague and I, that all citizens of Serbia should have equal chances. We both know that everyone here in this room, the citizens of Serbia, and how well they know, and some opposition colleagues also said that you in a Serbia like this today, if you don't have a SNS membership card, you can't even be a toilet worker, Maltese. So let's not fool ourselves, don't act naive and silly without talking about possibilities for children. Kids don't stand a chance of being determined towards poverty. So, poverty in Serbia, we've already seen how poor it is, we're the poorest country in Europe. So let's not talk about equal chances, when equal chances are the last thing children in Serbia, people in Serbia, Serbian citizens have. Please, let's not be cynical and be dishonest as we speak in this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24290	A colleague, Djukanovic, ordered the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24291	Thank you, Chairman. Please, really, please, it's been repeated for the third time. The 107th is a matter of insulting the dignity of this House and of insulting the intelligence of all of us here. It is mentioned here that Serbia is the poorest country in Europe. Please respond. That's not true. It's a notorious lie that comes out here. It's one of the notorious insolences of those who tell us that children are poor, and they have made millions and millions through bankruptcy, that is, their leader. I ask you to respond in the future, because these things cannot be brought out and this is how the public is deceived. That's not true. It's this law that can lead us to where we have a better economy than we've ever had since when the bankruptcy Mahers ran, when they ruled this country and when they robbed. This law leads to economic improvement, so absolute support for the law, this kind of thing has to be contained. Thank you. (Ana Stevanović: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24292	Comrade Stevanović, you have no basis for replication. This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure that was shown to me. I can do a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that's what my colleague said, so you don't have a basis for replication. (Anna Stevanovic: Then respond to insult. You have no basis for replica, colleague Stevanović. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24293	Yes, it's wrong, we've already explained it several times today, and we'll explain it again, it's not disputed. The mention of SNS in the context – what you can't do today in terms of work, if you're not in SNS. However, on the other hand, I understand that someone had to mention the toilet, because about that level of debate and we're listening on that side. Are you saying yourself -- Serbian citizens, if someone from the SNS belongs to the very ranks of MPs sitting on the opposite side of the hall and is working in the public sector of Serbia today, is getting some pay? It's amazing to me that someone is a member of the SNS at the same time, and we all know they're not. It represents other sides there, movements, imaginary societies of citizens, young mountainous and what else. He's not in SNS, and there's nothing wrong with getting paid from the budget or his family member. In various places, you can choose an institution, there are people, work in the National Assembly, in different courts, at the Anti-Corruption Agency, whatever you think of you will find someone, because they are members of the SNS. I don't think so. So much for truth and seriousness. If we're gonna talk about equal chances, let's see it this way. Maybe someone thinks it's a good example of equal chances to choose their own candidates for MPs on the Internet on the line competition. It's probably a good example of democracy of equal odds, and is that a serious approach? We see it through the consequences, through the results of such work, by playing and singing in the House of the National Assembly. That level of seriousness goes with that level of seriousness for selecting your own personnel, transferring campaign money to private accounts, to accounts of companies that you based on that online competition elected MPs. Is that serious? Yes, but just at the level of such a political foundation and such a selection of personnel. The final result, the number of votes, ladies and gentlemen, the number of votes below the number of invalid ballots, and that is one clear...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24294	Thank you, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24295	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. ... the inevitable consequence of such cadation, such a lack of politics and such harmfulness in every sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24296	Thanks again. On Article 12 of the amendment in the same text... (Ana Stevanović: Replica. ) You have recognized yourself in what your colleague Orlic was saying, but there is no mention of enough. I don't know why you recognized each other. Thank you. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word is from MP Marko Atlagic, who proposes the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24297	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, this is about checking the fulfillment of the terms and roles of the Chamber of Commerce, in this case the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, and other chambers of commerce, whether it is in dual education. This Law on dual education in its application will involve all those concerned by this law, starting with teachers, or schools, employers, local communities, the Ministry of Education, chambers of commerce, parents and students themselves. In this way, we will be best able to engage in the process of modernising Serbia, which we are now currently implementing, unfortunately, our coalition partners, and fortunately Serbian citizens. When a member of the Parliament just said that this dual education bill will primarily protect those who have SNS cards, I must say it is not true. It's her mother in one institution, and she's not a member of the SNS, and it's really hypocritical.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24298	Comrade Atlagic, please talk about the amendment. The amendment is proposed by Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24299	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this amendment and member of the Chamber of Commerce are given some importance. During the government of the former regimes, we had uneconomic activity, an uneconomic chamber, so I'm touched when manufacturers try nothing to talk about the education of masters, craftsmen, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24300	On the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ana Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24301	Thank you, Chairman. Article 104. - an MP is forbidden in any way to take matters out of the private lives of other MPs. So, as far as property is concerned, both members of our parliamentary group and others, I call on Serbian citizens to no longer allow anyone to manipulate them, because when we talk about our incomes, our accounts, all the data is public, both on the Anti-Corruption Agency website and on the Open Parliament site, so I would really ask that we stop these insidious accusations that someone stole some bankruptcy millions or that I don't know how much money each of us has in the account. All the data is public, so it would be interesting to compare our property situation with the property of some other MPs, who are persistently calling for this. As for the membership cards and the employment of some, since the MPs mentioned our family members, I call for people who have exceptional biographys, exceptional achievements, exceptional expertise, so what qualify them is exactly that. I pray that these things are not really allowed in the congregation anymore. First of all, to you, the chairman, I urge you not to allow such insidious arguments as we speak of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24302	My colleague Stevanović, that you have recognized yourself and if you have recognized yourself, it is not up to me to judge. If the MP group you belong to had been mentioned, they would have had a basis for replication. You have only recently sought a replica of the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is the basic knowledge or ignorance of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't want to interrupt you, I listened to you, and you misused the Rules of Procedure and, in accordance with Article 103 paragraph 8, the time you used through the abuse of Rules of Procedure, I'm gonna take away from the time of your parliamentary group. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24303	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 107, dignity. The truth is meant in dignity. The previous speaker was advertised by Article 104, and you released it, although you sanctioned it. He's not talking about the private life of other people, he's talking about the right to replication. So someone who is a doctor of some science should at least know how to read the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly. I am a farmer, but at least I was able to read somehow, with a hard time, the Rules of Procedure for the simple reason that it was brought by the party of the former regime. Article 107 says – relating to the private life of other persons. In order for this to happen, someone has to say the name and last name of that person, and if we take that someone because they said someone is working at the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is correct, and they don't have a SNS membership card, it's the same private data as the claim that all public sector employees, incorrect claims, have a SNS membership card. Apparently, they don't even have one of these remarks to show. I do not ask that this be voted on, but I ask you to pay further attention to these letters - illiterate, not to quote the wrong member of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24304	My colleague Rističević, I think in the opening statement, through the explanation of the violations of the Rules of Procedure that you think I did, you gave the answer that I wanted to give to the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day, it's mine to ask? (No) National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic jointly submitted to the 12th amendment. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24305	What I said in the last report, so now I would ask only Mr. Minister to comment, I see he listened with understanding. So we have some conditions, they're quite undefined, and we have a Chamber of Commerce that needs to control the fulfillment of these conditions, and the ministry here only participates as a control instance. I didn't say the ministry wasn't here. My question is very simple, Mr. Minister, why didn't you turn around a little order of things, so the ministry would create a commission that controls, and let's say some Chamber of Commerce, and that would be quite logical, that the Chamber of Commerce had a member in that commission of the ministry, but that the ministry had a member in the Chamber of Commerce? And you know yourself that it's not just a little bit, but it's an essential thing, and I'd like you to be kind enough to comment on why, in some ways, you've removed that part of the burden or responsibility, at least indirectly, indirectly from the ministry, and you've transferred it to the Chamber of Commerce which, I believe, is not capable of carrying that burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24306	Thank you. On behalf of Chapter III and Article 13 of the amendment, the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24307	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, now from Article 13, those members of the law who specifically point out how immoral this law is and how much it actually goes exclusively to the benefit of employers, and from children, which you will cheat with false promises to enroll in dual education, make cheap labour. In fact, now comes a series of members who talk about contracts in dual education. We'll see in the other members that there are two types of contracts. One is a dual education contract, the other is a learning contract through work. One contract is concluded by a school and an employer, another child or legal representative, if it is a minor, and an employer, etc. What you can see from all these contracts is that, Mr. Minister, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has absolutely no intention of obliging employers to any kind of obligation towards those children who are due to enter any of the dual profiles tomorrow. That's why we're saying that you're giving them a false promise, because everything that you've told us -- that they're going to get a job, that they're going to be able to continue their education, that they're going to be able to start doing business, that's all in these contracts, and that's the key difference between that famous and so happily mentioned, the German model and ours, that in Germany, dual education means that no child is going to get into school unless there's a job with that same employer who's training that kid, which he's going to train tomorrow, in three years or four years's going to start working. It's just a dual education, and what you're offering us is not a dual education, it's a child's work that you're offering us. You employers won't, Mr. Sarcevic, talk about it when that member comes in, make a commitment even if he breaks his school contract, he'll be obliged to do what those kids do in the future. Wait, how can the school find the exact same employer, with the same needs, with the same educational profiles that will take over all those children if one employer broke the contract. I don't know how you can impose such an obligation on anyone to find the same employer, with the same needs, for the same number of children, with the same educational profiles. So either you can't do that or you don't care about those kids you send to dual education. How can you assume that it's so easy to find a firm that can take over all those kids? Why didn't you oblige the company to have some obligation to those children who would work there tomorrow for 70% of the minimum? How can you because of these members who are now following we say that everything you offer these children is a lie and in these members it is proven.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24308	The word is by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24309	Dear Mr. Minister, we of the SNS believe that the law on dual education is good and that all proposed amendments to the type of spear - page, delete, should be rejected. Of course, Mr Milicevic, right away, it is the legitimate right of MPs to propose amendments, even of these types, but I have the legitimate right to comment in my own way through figurative expression, such and similar amendments. For the sake of the public and future students who, for example, will decide on this kind of education and education, I want to say a few things. For example, the Technical School “15. May" in Prokuplje is preparing to co-operate with the company Johnson Electric. It's on the same path as Agriculture School in Prokuplje. The Pirote Milk School is preparing to become a company school, because they have their own production of milk and milk products. They want to expand that market, even think about setting up a cattle department, if I'm wrong, you correct me. As for Nisa, Elektro - technical school "Mija Stanimirović", Machine school has an exceptional co-operation with domestic and foreign companies. For example, the Food School in Nis has an exceptional co-operation with Idea and the slaughterhouse, so students who attend such a school are later hired. I will especially mention the Legal – Business School in Nis, for which students have great interest, has long-standing co-operation with the GIZ. The German Government was also involved in co-operation, and this Legal - Business School in Nis has excellent co-operation with the Faculty of Economics in Nis and with the Faculty of Law in Nis, and with many banks in Nis, and the students of that school mainly in European competitions in virtual enterprises took the first prizes, of course, thanks to their work, but also the enthusiasm of their professors and teachers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24310	Thank you. My friend Guric, do you want the amendment? By amendment, MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24311	Thank you. Very short. Here it is now said - two schools plan to bond with one company. Two schools, okay. Let's just have one school, that's a solid amount of kids. What happens when that one company sells the plants tomorrow, or sells the share? (Alexander Martinovic: Do you measure your children in kilograms? He said the amount of children. ) Please warn your colleagues not to earn. What happens when this one company sells the share or the shares tomorrow, or sells the drives to a third party and some new owner comes in to change production, and those educational profiles become unnecessary to that new owner? That's what my colleague used to talk about. It's not settled by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24312	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24313	I thank the chairman. It's about one thing, I'd only ask a little if you could...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24314	Just a little quiet, please. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24315	I would ask only a little, if there is a possibility of a toleranceal debate and, of course, a discussion in an atmosphere that implies respect for the principles of democracy. The intimidation, whether something will happen or not, in terms of whether production plants will change, whether labour plans will change, whether employers will change, open new factories, etc., there is no basis, because, if I can accept it, maybe even the bill offers the possibility of better precision and what is stated and normised as a proposal that we will adopt is enough, after the deep conviction of the SPS parliamentary group. Given that the dual education system is linked to plans that are defined as part of secondary school education plans, and do not relate in this way to the employer, as the employer changes, so the educational plan can be changed and directed to another employer. In addition, an employer must not identify himself with a teacher and teacher, because a class teacher or teacher who will conduct practical training will always be present with students who will have to pass that training. So if that's how you look at it and that approach has, when it comes to dual education, there's no reason for fear. This is about why such and similar amendments should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24316	Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment, together with Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Vjerica Radeta, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Since the promoters have not called, the word has been issued by MP Dubravko Bojic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24317	Speaking in principle debate, I expressed the SRS' position on this form of education and voiced some doubt that it cannot live in Serbia as a country of weak and undeveloped economy. What you've been using to create this law, experience from some Western, developed countries, can't possibly, can't be guaranteed that it will survive in our educational space. Article 13 of the bill regulates the existence of two types of contracts, a dual education contract that regulates the relationship between the school and the employer, and a working learning contract, which regulates the relationship between the employer and the student, i.e. the parent or other legal guardian. With our amendment, we asked to delete this member because the conditions provided for by this contract are unfavourable both by school and by the employer, and in part by the student, or by his legal representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24318	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24319	Thank you, Chairman. We of the New Party of the Independent Members Club believe that this law on dual education is harmful, that it should be withdrawn from the procedure and therefore we do not agree with Article 13 which is currently under discussion. We ask our amendment to delete him, like all other members of the law. He, by the way, speaks and defines contracts for dual education. Mr. Minister, there is not a single law and no contract that should be more important to you than the contract you reached here with the citizens of Serbia the day you took your oath and signed it. It's the most important contract that binds you to the minister's duties, as bright as that function is, as much as the current government in the minister's chair makes you comfortable, nice, fine, it all stands, but don't let young people define you as future servants for your whole life, in your own country, and stay remembered as someone who condemned them to be the cheapest labour force in your own country. You mean with your own head, pull this bill, don't take applause and flattering those MPs who are at the atmosphere in this assembly, as you can see, bending down to the level of the mining community. Once again, I urge you to adopt this amendment and withdraw the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24320	I appeal to you to respect the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to respect the dignity of every MP and to respect the minister as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The way you've spoken doesn't matter to your findings. Please do it in the future. Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24321	Thank you. The previous speaker in his presentation to Mr. Secretary used the word - your late years. I really don't know what's wrong with a man 50 or 60 years old. Do old people not have the right to live and work? Also, the other thing you said, I really don't want to comment, but in one of the presentations, I thought you were a psychologist or psychiatrist by profession. You've used the word, addressing MP Orlic, to his incompetent cognitive functions. Do you know that there are normal cognitive functions and pathological cognitive functions?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24322	Just talk to my colleague, Rancic, please. So I want to tell you, if you want to discuss cognitive functions, you can come to me, and as a neuropsychiatrist, I can lead the controversy with you about it. Comrade Rancic, you have ordered the violation of Rule 107. I do not believe that I have violated a member of the Rules of Procedure for one simple reason, because I have suggested to my colleague that he respects the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and respects the dignity and the minister of course as a representative of the Government, and every MP and position and opposition. Thank you. You don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24324	I thank the chairman. I believe that the previous exposure has injured Article 107, not therefore, or dignity, by...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24325	My colleague Tepic, you cannot point to the same attitude as the speaker mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24326	I can't hear you, you can just make it a little louder.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24327	You cannot point to article 107 again. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24328	You interrupted me until I kept sorting out a few more members you hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24329	Well, you have to call a member first, and then you have to talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24330	So you also injured a member of 108 who assumes you should take care of the order at this session. The order at this session, as most MPs appeal, especially most, or authorities, is to speak the truth. So I think you should have warned the previous speaker the moment he started offering me some services, which he can do in SNS, that he offers professional or unprofessional services there to colleagues and colleagues. I don't need his help, but I need this country in the front row of this Parliament, this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24331	I am about to honor the 108st member you pointed out to return to what is the topic of today's session, which are amendments to the draft law on dual education.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24332	I agree, but you left the debate in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24333	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Branka Stamenković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24334	Thank you. Dual education will not solve any of the only problems that our education system suffers from. There's a lot of problems. They can collapse into two categories. It's that our education system, it starts with preschool and beyond, one -- unfair, two -- is obsolete. Instead of bringing on dual education, which will legitimize these poor results, we should be out of it and start dealing with problems that are at the root of all the problems of our education. We should start with the whole system being unfair and favoring children of better-standing parents. From preschool through primary school education, parents are squirming, raising loans to pay huge costs to our cobayage, free education. In primary school, we should start with the parents discharging by paying out of the Republic of Serbia's budget all the costs of obtaining textbooks, that parents should at least start with that cost, while working on reforms and other reforms that are necessary, spare them. The MP group Enough was calculated to cost us only 0.15% of the Republic of Serbia's budget on an annual basis, so that all primary school children get free textbooks. Please, let's take this seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24335	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24336	So, of course, I respect the right and the possibility for everyone to propose, through their amendment, the erasure of a certain member, but it must have full meaning in the context of the proposed law, in particular Article 13, talks about the types of contracts to be concluded in the realization of dual education. If proposed - this article is deleted, then the explanation says why it is deleted and what is offered instead of what is given here in the proposal. So, dual education, dual education, is spreading the beauty of the model of realisation, teaching and learning. It is a species adapted to a new time, although such types of education, which were related to the economic operator, to production, to craft, etc., were also in earlier times. But there's nothing more natural about dual education than defining certain conditions and relationships between school and where education is done through work. Therefore, one such contract is necessary between the school and the employer on the one hand, and on the other hand it is certainly necessary and a very important contract between students, i.e. parents or other legal representative and employer, because there is a specific kind of learning that, outside of dual education, did not exist, which is learning through work. This involves some new conditions, some new moments, some new learning environments, etc., as well as relationships. There must certainly be parents to play their part, besides parenting cannot be left out or side by side of what is a specific type of education, and certainly dual education is very specific and for these reasons the necessity of these two types of contracts stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24337	Thank you. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24338	Dear Vice President, this dual education law is indeed reformal. It is also modern, in its own way it fits into the modernisation of Serbia for which we have defined ourselves. Tragically and regrettable that this whole law is denied, not only this member, about dual education precisely from those who brought our education, education, and also learning through and to work on the lowest possible level in the history of education and pedagogical ideas. In particular, a former minister's assistant, Mrs. Turajlic, who told the CIA on TV "N1" that she was one of the main culprits for breaking up our educational education system. Finally, if there were at least a little professorly honor and pedagogical civic national responsibilities, as it did not, it should not appear in public with its devastating statements, because the history of education has already put into place as one of the destroyers of our education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24339	The word is proposed by the amendment, the National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about contracts and contracts will cover a number of children. I ask colleagues who have already twice used the term “produced children” not to do so. It may indicate their relationship with those children. This shows perhaps the desire to instead of dual education, to have someone who is skilled in hands, someone whose certain classes do not go to school and who is capable of being a good builder, carpenter, mechanic and, etc., an alternative to someone who wants to school so through work is mostly the street. So it's better to give a chance to young people who don't go to school, who want to learn themselves through work, to make knowledge applicable. I'm asking my colleagues not to call it a quantity, because these people, mostly, if they go to school, they're good engineers. That's what my colleague Jokic said. But if they're masters, they're top masters and they can do anything they want. Everything the eye sees, they're ready to do it. Second, as humans, they're extremely good quality, and as young men, they're very capable of the military. Patriotically they're mostly defined and as soon as he turns 19, he finishes his trade and gets a job, boy and girl when he's 18 and 19, the first thing that happens to me in that factory is my grandmother. So that's very important for the family, too, so I ask those who allegedly advocate family values, that through dual education they see that it's good for families, for those who will come and for those families from which these children come through dual education, that is, through education through work, become top masters, and I must say, unlike members of the party of the former regimes, many of them, honor the exceptions, become good people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24341	On the title of Part 1 of Chapter III, the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24342	Thank you. So, again about the contracts. The dual education agreement, which is here first now in several members, is concluded between the school and the employer, at least for a period of up to three or four years, as long as the student has already spent his education. In these future members, you have various school obligations and no employer's obligation. Among other things, very strange and problematic, which we will insist you explain to us, the obligation of the school to, in case the employer interrupts, i.e. Break the contract, how will a school that is obliged to provide children with education at another firm? Here, a colleague just spoke in a superlative about a school that's going to be educated for a certain milkman by kids who are going to work there. When this milkmaker breaks up the school contract and decides that he no longer wants to implement the dual education programme, and according to what you've defined, he can do that when he simply assesses that there is no need for it anymore, Minister Sarčević, where will that high school in Nis find a new milker who will hire all those children, who will take over their education, on the same profiles to pick up where they started at the previous school? Why, Mr. Sarčević, do you not want an employer to commit to any single thing, or even such a basic obligation to the school? The other thing is that you won't commit to the children, but we'll talk about it when we talk about learning contracts through work, and now we're in the part that talks about the relationship between school and the employer. So schools are also subordinated to employers, the Chamber of Commerce. You have to explain things to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24343	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24344	I've been looking forward to something concrete. This was all the same so far, so I wrote it down. Here, now it's concrete. So, until now, it's been a lie, I should be embarrassed, we're cheating on kids, we're cheap labor, so since I can't keep answering the same thing, let's tell you about dairy school. So it's not Nis, it's Pirot. She's a real national treasure. It's something they've been doing for decades, a famous pyrotic helmet like a brand. They've got their own store in the center of Pirot, and that's where it's gonna happen. It's the concept of a student company now. The previous law that we passed last time, and if it comes to order, the other laws that are now in the Assembly, on the middle and the basic, speaks of student cooperatives. They can grow up, like in college, with pin's company, so there's no employer here, this is a rare, good example, and it's a unique school. It is now organized in Zrenjanin. So this is one good fortune that preserved masters, children, also has the home of students. So it's an extremely good story.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24345	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. According to the amendment, Natasa Vukkovic's MP has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24346	Thank you, Chairman. What is the biggest objection to this law, but especially to this article, is that no obligation is seriously foreseen for employers. What we care about most is what happens to children who complete dual education, and for whom the employer has no obligation to hire them at his company, but simply when the cycle of education is over he can start a new cycle with a new group of students and thus constantly restore the cheap workforce of the young, and that he has no education for other jobs, for other areas of industry and for the possibility of finding a job with a modern employer. The problem is that our economy is very lagging behind and technology. When we talk about the model of dual education from Germany and Switzerland, we forget, we lose sight of the difference between the economy, between the economy between these countries and us. There the economy is digitized, and when you students are sent to a dual education with an employer, it will also receive modern digitalized education, so education for a digitized economy. This isn't the case here in most cases. So, what are we gonna educate these kids for? If there is no obligation on the part of the employer to hire him, what will be the outcome of this dual education?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24347	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24348	Thank you, Your Honor. I suggest that this amendment not be accepted. It is obviously not clear to the opposition that you cannot force the employer today, whether it is a domestic or foreign employer, any company, to hire and retain someone in a particular place. But it is certain that students who learnt through work gained knowledge and skills in these companies and became more competitive in the market will have priority in employment. Why would a company, I say, be it a foreign or domestic company, take new generations of students who, as I have concluded from the exhibition, will be exploited in this way, why would such companies take new generations of students to new jobs that are available to them and hire people who have no experience in this profession and how much would it cost those companies? I propose that this amendment be rejected and only one more example of Leskovec, where we have six companies, three domestic and three sides, which have a learning contract through school work, although it is a pilot project from 2013. Four generations of students who completed their vocational education have already been employed by the company Falke and three generations of students in the company Autostop, in Vlasotinc, in Gruner. We heard an example from a colleague of Love from Nis. We also heard an example from Uzic. Therefore, it is clear that the adoption of the Duo Education Act will achieve a reform of secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24349	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24350	Another aspect should be considered when talking about dual education. Now we have companies or business entities or those who are interested, who are actually entering the educational process by making a dual education agreement with the school and on the other hand with the parents, or a student, which is that no one forces those employers to enter the dual education process. So, come in those economic operators, those employers who are interested. It is understood that most of them are interested in these staff who will be trained. Of course, and there will be some selection. You know how, when someone gets into some business, when they find a job, and so forth, a young man makes his own destiny, whether he survives in that company or not. Likewise, as a student who learns through the work himself recommends whether he will be useful and important for the company, that is, for that employer and of course the employer will certainly pay attention to those best, those who are interested and take them, and I repeat that the employers who are in the dual education process are those who are interested in this kind of education because they need such staff.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24351	Thank you. On the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojić and Zoran Krasic, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24352	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this amendment is concerned, I believe that he was founded and that he should be accepted. I don't think this law is in compliance with the Labour Relations Act. Namely, by the provision of Article 84. Labour law, when it comes to the protection of youth, employees under the age of 18 cannot work on the following jobs: especially difficult physical work, working underground, under water or at high altitude, in addition, employees under the age of 18 cannot work at night. I understand that this is not a classic working relationship, but this law is not sufficiently in line with the Labour Law. As far as the contract is concerned, the contract is imprecise. The contract provides for a possible dispute settlement, i.e. in this Article of the next 15. I think, as a lawyer, it must have been more specific here. In the case of a dispute, that authority and that authority will be jurisdictional, and the most often will be a court of law. That should have been added to the court's jurisdiction. From my practice, as a lawyer, I can tell you that it will be difficult to comply with this law, i.e. its application will be difficult and will come, if adopted, and I have no doubt, that it will come quickly and follow the changes and additions. As far as my humble experience is concerned, I've also graduated from the University of Pedagogue and Law School and as a lawyer and I've been engaged in juvenile delinquency, this may have a certain positive impact on juvenile delinquency, but I'm afraid employers will abuse this law. I therefore believe that it was the basis for this law to be likened and brought into line with the Labour Relations Act, especially as it will be difficult for the Chamber of Commerce to be able to monitor the work of the instructor, Mr. Minister. In my opinion, these instructors who are due to be able to follow and teach in these schools at work, they're coaches. Coursers are all the ones who ended up in private colleges. Therefore, the Chamber of Commerce does not have the capacity to cover all schools and those entities interested in getting involved under this dual education law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24353	Thank you. The amendment is proposed by Parliamentarian Branka Stamenković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24354	With this amendment, we ask that consistent, like all previous and future members of this law, be deleted because we believe that this law should not be passed and that dual education should not be introduced into our education system, at least not at this moment, not until we have solved the burning problems from which primary and preschool education suffers, and that at the end of the primary school, we have poor results which give us some need to legitimise these results with this so-called. dual education. I will remind you that by 2020 the education strategy says that we are aiming to increase the number of higher educations in this country, there are only 7% of them. We will not achieve this by introducing dual education. We will achieve this only through the root reform of pre-school and primary education, which are outdated and unfair, which are only like fairy tales free of charge. Please, when my child started the preschool prep program, which is like a fairy tale free, at first class, we were asked to give money for textbooks, give money for toys, give money for repairing lamps and give money for soap, buy a towel, buy toilet paper. The same was required of us in the first four classes of primary school. What's free of charge? Let's not talk about textbooks that have to be paid urgently from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The MP's group enough was trying to make it so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24355	Thank you. Minister Mladen Sarcevic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24356	Just for the truth to say that, let's say, we have about 7-7.5% of the dual models where the serious employers are, where it's all been all possible checks and there are 1,800 companies interested. This is just beginning, and we're just applying in two years. We're getting into this story very carefully. On the other hand, Austria has 40% of high school students in the dual model, Germany 60%, and Switzerland 70%. The quality of high-school personnel will be provided if we raise the high school to the expected 40%. It's all very well written in the strategy, but there was no action plan to implement. I think we're gonna do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24357	Thank you, Minister. According to the amendment, the People's MP is Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24358	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow ministers, I'm a little sick of hearing about free textbooks, we didn't even have that at the time of socialism. And at the time of socialism, parents paid their children textbooks, social categories had free textbooks and free lunches. So define what you want – utopia or capitalism. Capitalism you wanted, that's what you got. So enjoy what you asked for, like I said, that's what you got. Another thing, if you want to look up to EU countries, look at the model of Denmark and what a kindergarten in Denmark looks like. There are no colorful walls, no toys, the walls are gray, the kids are left to teachers who aren't very devoted, because they're overthinking that the kids have to fight for their status and the parents aren't as caring as we are, so they're not going after the kid to put a hat on his head when it snows, but we're going to let him out, so when he feels he's cold, he's going to come back alone. So it was just written by a Serbian woman who left Serbia in search of a better life and settled in Denmark. He says the Danes are the luckiest nation in the world by some evaluations. So choose what you want. Are we going to be such a system or your utopia that I'm telling you, it wasn't even at the time of socialism. I don't know where you lived in the '70s and '80s, I lived in Serbia, studied in that socialist system that was the way it was, but never all categories of students had free textbooks or free lunches, so don't sell us fog again and drive the people crazy, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24359	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Nedjo Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24360	I think it should come from some of the facts when we talk about both the law and most of the amendments that, roughly, have the exact same content, are contained – it is deleted, with arguments that are what they are. The fact that it is difficult to doubt is that from the day we adopt this law to its practical application, it will be enough time for stalking and for adapting the dual education system in the sense of the word in which it is expected from the legislator. The legislator is obliged to bring every law in the practical sense of the word to that level that it has the correct optimal and meaningful application. Will this law live to see it? Let us hope that it will be safe for the next three years and then not be enslaved to prejudice whether one employer will be an adequate employer or not, whether or not he will be there, whether he will enter the appropriate plans and programmes or not, it will be one concept of work that will only develop. In this development of this concept of work and adaptation in practice, that is, what in 2019 or 2020 when we have full application, the practical application of this law, only then can we project whether this system will be oriented according to one, second or third employer. Until then, I am sure that both economic movements and economic-financial movements will be far more favourable than now and that it will be far easier for anyone who concludes that type of contract relating to the dual system to choose the right employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24361	Thank you. By amendment, MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24362	Thank you. This is actually a replica of my colleague Rakonjac, whom I am entitled to, which I have been denied, so I am being taken away from the parliamentary group, just to let the citizens know that the Assembly is being led...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24363	Comrade Stamenkovic, we'll make up for your time. Whether you have grounds for replication or not, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is decided by the Chairman. You have no basis for replication, and I told you that you can get the word and have the opportunity to speak because you have the time of the parliamentary group. Do you want to talk about the amendment to Article 14? Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24364	Thank you. My colleague Rakonjac spoke directly to me and told me that even in socialism the textbooks were not free, so my God, they are not in today's capitalism either. Just so you know, colleague Rakonjac, we haven't seen anything from capitalism. What we have is not capitalism, but kleptocrat and partocrat, and otherwise in the world's most capitalist countries, textbooks are free, in the US, in Canada, in Norway, in Botswana are free textbooks, but in Serbia, since socialism was not free, it is not even klectocratian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24365	Thank you. By amendment, MP Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24366	Not according to the amendment, the replica, I was named by name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24367	Yeah, it's a replica, you're mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24368	You know, in this no-socialism, we've had such a social status as the Nordic countries now tend to be. Whatever happened, look for an answer with yourself. Let me repeat this once again, this social order we're in right now is capitalistic, and you'll study the textbooks a little bit, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24369	No, it's not a replica, it's more than a report, and colleague Stamenkovic will get his word, but when your turn comes. By amendment, MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24370	I'd just stand by the amendment and support a debate that's a little sooner than either of my colleagues. When it comes to listing countries where education is far more advanced than all other countries, or even the most developed EU countries, and reminded them that they are all kingdoms. All these countries are kingdoms and are naturally the most developed system of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24371	Comrade Bozovic, do you want to talk to him after the amendment? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24372	Thank you. So we're talking about dual education and what all citizens, or those who attended schools, had in an earlier period and in an earlier communist system, and what they have today. So it doesn't have much to do with the system, the socialist system has been deeply unfair in one hand because it has not recognised civil rights and freedoms, often even the rule of law. In some ways, he was good because citizens were in many ways equal. In this system, dear Mrs. Rakonjac and colleagues from SNS textbooks did not cost half someone's salary even though they cost. After 2000, DS as one of the leading changed socialist so-called The socialist or kletomaniac, the war-hoc regime of the SRS and the SPS of Slobodan Milosevic. She advocated that students still get the chance to comply with the Constitution for free and basic and secondary education. We have often succeeded in this, but together with our partners, we have done a lot. Never have such differences between the poorest and the richest been seen as in the last decade, the last five years of the SNS government. When a new set of textbooks is half someone's salary, when parents take the most expensive loans to pay tuitions to educate their children, to dress their children, to educate them in any way or to provide them with what in all advanced Western European countries is perfectly normal and understood. If it was such a good socialist system, I don't know why, led by Vojislav Seselj, these radicals who are sitting across from us now, were breaking that country...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24373	Let's go after my colleague Bozovic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24374	I'm also responding to the charges, since we've been accused of taking part in breaking some system that was perfect.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24375	No one has accused you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24376	So, Mr. Martinovic also participated in the globular stake in the grave of Josip Broz Tito.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24377	Are you talking about the amendment? (Balsa Bozovic: Let me finish? () Of course I will not allow you to speak beyond the agenda and thus insult the dignity of the National Assembly. Of course not. So you can talk about the amendment to Article 14. You weren't talking. Do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24378	When we talk about contracts that will be overprotective to those who are not protected, for those who, by law, will have absolutely no protection, for those who will be used, for kids and kids who will no longer be able to attend school, who will no longer be able to educate themselves, who will lose all their life's energy by doing the hardest and most brutal jobs, you here when it comes to contracts on dual education, say that the employer and school will work in the best interests of the child. And what if tomorrow one "Leir" from Novi Sad or "Meita" from Obrenovac where ten hours of work is on tape, that's all the work there is, they're going to conclude the same contracts with schools that will offer a cheap workforce that for 10,000 dinars a child is ten hours behind the tape, that he can't go to the toilet, but he'll have to wear diapers, so that you don't drive him out of school, because the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which deals in the 21st century, is the only one that deals with education in Serbia, the American Chamber of Commerce, the Swiss Chamber of Commerce, the Italian Chamber of Commerce determines our children in Serbia as well as whether it's good for them to stand ten hours behind the tape or not. That's all you offer some younger generations. If you'd wondered earlier, Nicola Tesla would probably have turned some screws instead of doing his job in science. You're going to ruin some talent just because his parents are poor, just because they don't have the money to buy textbooks, just because they don't have the money to pay their child to get them to study somewhere or finish some professional high school. So this isn't about e.g. Boris Kidric High School, located in Šapac. This should be reformed, such a school should be improved, because students from those schools knew that they were repairing both cars and machines, but they also had the opportunity to educate, and you are now giving them the opportunity not to even learn to read and write, but only to do the most brutal and non-citizen jobs, but exclusively slaves and a cheap electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24379	A fellow Eagle has a basis for replication. You also have colleagues Jovanovic and counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic and co-worker Vesna Rakonjac. You, as mentioned by the SRS, mentioned SPS, mentioned SNS, and directly also co-worker Rakonjac. I've seen you answer, but the system is full, because colleagues have come forward to speak according to the amendment, so I'm going to give my first word to my colleague Jovanovic. Here you go, replica. Just please sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24380	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Balsa Bozovic was caused by nothing in the absence of some of her arguments and her failed DS began to mention the SRS, our president, and to talk about something that he actually knows nothing about, because I don't believe that if we had time for this now, and that this topic of this discussion started about the concept of socialist self-government, we could hear something and that something Mr Bozovic knew about it because he didn't live at that time, and because otherwise, with the flatulence, he just wants to use the expression of war-scrapers, such as this, to offend the MPs who were always on the defender of the country and the Serbian, which includes the SRS MPs. On December 9, 1990, when the first multilateral elections were held, we were to go through parliamentary democracy and rebuilding multilaterals in Serbia to advocate those values that were systematically destroyed by communists and which were at the expense of ours in one part of the education system, teaching children wrongly our history, about our cultural heritage. But those who came, that road was a pain in the ass. We have been struck by war and aggression by America and the Western forces and the NATO Pact, the struggle to preserve our territories on the other side of Drina and Danube. But Mr. Milicevic, you are witnessing this as well as Serbian citizens that nothing worse has happened to us in the past 70 years, even worse than what we have experienced during communism, but the DoS rule and all the mud and scum that came out after October 5th. Those who robbed Serbia, they left hundreds of thousands out of work, today they lecture us on how we failed to defend the country while they were Soros' mercenaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24381	Thank you. Right on line, colleague Bozovic. And you know very well how many replicas you've caused. Now you must wait your turn. Take it easy. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, right to replication, mentioning the SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24382	Well, to what this man did, that is, the two people who caused the replicas, since we are in the spirit of the fall of enlightenment, I think Professor Aaron of Sobrona would say, what a bunch of nonsense, what a bunch of nonsense. We've heard it from people who can't get along with each other, but with themselves what they're saying. How much are those calculations that everybody gets free of charge in this country, at all levels of education, 0.15% of the budget. Well, it won't be. Check that out a little bit. Tell these down there it's not half the average salary. Do these people even know what they're saying? Come on, I'm not surprised someone got a little nervous again. We've already caught them missing a billion calculations here in the National Assembly. But at least let them make a deal if they're gonna lie about what they're gonna say. So, kleptocratism by those who are all used to the system of equal opportunities, but for themselves. Claptocrats by those who mention Nikola Tesla, and they don't know which ones. For Nadezhda Petrovic, they have not yet determined who he is. But by the system of values, right, son, you go to school doesn't matter which one, ends it doesn't matter what. One day you'll be a yellow company activist or those happy families upstairs, they won't appreciate you, but at least you'll be able to see the Maldives. Is this a system of equal values and saying that something ideologically different and better would be. Why are they talking about socialism? I don't get that. Here, not at all. Those who became socialists or social Democrats, the day before yesterday, have no idea what they were. We listened here to what their ideological womb was in the 1990s, that when they went around the front lines, when they had their para-military formations, and then one day someone said, it would be popular to be social Democrats and overnight change and the program and statutes and society, they just seemed to forget to change the logo, so that yellow circle on the blue field stayed in the right corner, because they were right-handed, they forgot to move it left. Serbia's citizens will never send children to something that is not good for children, and that ends with Mr. Chairman, and they will neither vote for yellow enterprises nor for klectocrats nor for those citizens' associations singing, no one here needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24383	Legally speaking of the SPS, the word has a National MP, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24384	I thank the chairman. When we talk about free health and free schooling, let's be honest, these are the fluids that are the heritage of the SPS, and the heritage will always be because these are the fluids of the sincere leftist movement and these are the liquids that existed at the time of a fully stable system, one normal social arrangement, one existential status, which in one satisfactory way all citizens of the then Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia enjoyed. But come on, for the sake of the citizens of our country, let's be true to say something that the citizens and how well they know, and from here it should be directed, it's good that employers in the dual education system won't be those who, by the 2002 Privatisation Act, devastated the Magnochrom in the Kingdom, devastated "Vojin Popovic" in Novi Pazar, destroyed FAP in Priboj, and many other extremely stable companies in Serbia. In 2002, the SPS and its members were satanized, placed in the role of something that implies lynching, which means dealing with non-sanitarys until total liquidation. That's what was literally the horror of those who promised everything after October 5 and they didn't do anything. Now, that's why it's good that in 2019 and 2020, no employers will be where our children practice to be the ones who did it after October 5, 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24385	Right on the line, MP Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24386	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I would not like to challenge any further replicas, and I will address only you. I have one question. Do DS members know that they are members of the Socialist International, so now I don't know, these kinds of speeches to what they're doing. The second thing, in 1999, after the bombing, in Krusevec there were 40,000 employees of which 30,000 were in the real sector. After 12 years of rule in Krusevec, there were 12,000 employees, of which three thousand were in the real sector. That's disastrous. That's why they don't have parents to pay children's textbooks. That's why parents don't pay children's textbooks, that's what it's all about. That's why a lot of kids don't have lunch, and they honor us. One more thing. Why are we looking at dual education from some black position? Why are we looking from the position of the future without perspective? Is it simply a vision of DS that everything is black and void? Why don't we let the law live so we can change it if it's not good? Why are we relying on their twelve-year, previous experience, where the companies were two, three days, two, three months, and we'll be changing the production program as the tycoons want. These companies that are now coming to Serbia are companies with respect, companies with a long tradition, with production capacities and programmes in the world that are famous and stable.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24387	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24388	Therefore, there is no concern for our children when it comes to safety at work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-01-0.u24389	Thank you. Since it's eighteen hours and two minutes, this is what we finish today's work. We continue our work tomorrow, so on Thursday, November 2, 2017 with a start at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
