ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24788	Thank you, Chairman. Article 31 The proposal for a dual education law is prescribed that the instructor continuously monitors the progress of students in co-operation with the coordinator, learning through work in order to acquire competences prescribed by the qualification standard, and that student evaluation is carried out in accordance with the plan and programme of teaching and learning, the law and the regulation which determines the evaluation of pupils in secondary education and education. The SRS parliamentary group also proposes to delete this member of the bill and wants to point to a waste of money that will attract the application of this law, which amounts to millions of dinars. These funds that you say are already provided within the framework of existing limitations of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development for the secondary education programme, you could use to improve the conditions for the work of educational and educational institutions, as well as to ensure the availability of programmes based on scientific arguments and practices. The promotion of children and early development guarantee high achievements and the achievement of the potential of all children. This would pay attention to all sensitive groups, gifted children, your children who grow up in Serbia. The SRS parliamentary group, by pointing out the importance of early development, believes that all children should be equal in the sense that we have been thinking about their potential since birth, not when they come to high school, when through this and this type of dual education law, we will turn them into cheap labour. Therefore, instead of the instructors and coordinators, invest in support programmes for parents and educators, who are at a crucial interval, from birth to six years, the most significant factors in the development of their children. Once again, the SRS parliamentary group is against this bill, because we consider it extremely harmful and inapplicable in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24789	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24790	Thank you. The fourth day as we discuss amendments to this law and the fourth day as we appeal for this law to be withdrawn from the procedure. The legislator, who is here with us all the time, I think he could see by now that the entire opposition is united in that position, which is a very rare case in this House. So it is the turn to ask the legislator why such a large number of MPs have amendments, which all read as "wipes" and appeal with one voice unitedly that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. We note that these resources, both human resources and financial resources, can be used much better if they go into the root reform of primary and pre-school education and education, because we need a similar strategy until the development of education by 2020, to increase the number of children enrolled in high school and to increase the number of higher educations that are only 7% in Serbia. The introduction of dual education has absolutely nothing to do with the realization of these two objectives. To achieve these two goals, we must focus our resources and attention on reforming primary and preschool education, not the dual, which I again urge to withdraw from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24791	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24792	Thank you, Chairman. As the colleague said, we have been going on for the fourth day to talk about the law on dual education, that is, amendments, and probably if someone follows the idea that it is an epochal law that will bring epochal changes into our secondary education system. Unfortunately, that's not the case. This is a law that has a great name, a dual education, and it's not a law on dual education, no matter how much the promoter wants to create a picture of it. It is a law on education through work, something that exists today through a number of secondary vocational schools and this is just one wish that a single commitment, which five years ago was introduced into the head of the then Deputy Prime Minister, the current President of the Republic, be transferred to paper. What we were saying here is that his wish and idea, since it is not good for Serbia's education system, the previous three ministers did not want to implement it. So, since 2012, as it stands in reason for not accepting our amendments, when a strategy that provides for the introduction of dual education was adopted, to date the previous ministers did not want to do so, and this minister essentially does not introduce dual education. The minister himself said - this is our model, not the model, not Germany, not Austria, not Switzerland. This is our model. This is a model of a fake dual education which is called, which is essentially not, because in dual education the student works, the employer concludes with him the contract, pays him a profit, pays him social, health and other obligations. This student is exercising labour protection rights, and in this case there is nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24793	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24794	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is about the evaluation of our students, and a very good member of this law has predicted that an instructor and coordinator are involved in the evaluation of our students, and the closer they will be determined by a regulation that will define the way and procedures to be done. This is extremely important, grading students since schooling, not only in Serbia but in general. This is one of the main issues of education and education. I must say, the former regime is false. It is not true that the former ministers did not want to implement dual education. As early as 2013, the elements of dual education have been introduced by some schools, and in 2014 it was initiated in the exposé of the Prime Minister. Since the former regime was due to pass, the law on dual education 14 years ago, and today it is fighting its adoption, and it has not, and it has brought Serbia's education to the lowest possible level in the history of schooling in Serbia, and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, has initiated the adoption of this dual education law, which represents the first-rate reform step of SNS and Minister Mladen Sarcevic, in that sense by giving up further interpretation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24795	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risitčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24796	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, instructors evaluate the grades. I continue to advocate those rare crafts, to bring in top masters, tajjetin, tailors, the one who sewed the suit, so that through these top masters, we can get back some of the money we've been robbed. This is how that money goes abroad. But if the "captainer" and the team that earned it as long as the common people lost everything, if they realize that there are top masters here, and the grades will contribute to it, if they are quality instructors, in which case they will not call for a tailor to come from New York Avenue, and for Miskovic and the "snaps" to sew a 10,000-euro suit, but to use the tailor here, which will be more favourable, and we, as a state and society, will recover some of that money, and of course, through VAT etc. to return to the state register, and then we can raise our pensions thanks to increased revenues, which I will speak in some future explanation of the amendments, we can increase pensions because there will be higher incomes from taxes, and under number two, we will have more employees, quality masters, who will have big, fat salaries because they will pay back this robbed money and in such a way we will have higher incomes in the PIO fund, so that our pensioners should know that this is done and in their favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24797	Thank you. On behalf of members of the 32nd and of the 32nd Amendment, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment in the same text, MPs together Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radet, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Jasmina Nikolic, and together Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article of the 32nd Law refers to the way in which the final, or graduation exam is conducted. This article, among other things, provides that the employer's representative should be required to attend the final, or graduation exam. It is not disputed and all actors who participate in the educational process and should be present when a final, or graduation exam is passed, but, in my opinion, something else is controversial here, which employers' representatives should do without compensation, as it stands here in law. Since prom, or final exams are normally held at school, and the representatives of employers within the meaning of this law are representatives of chambers of commerce, and we know that commercial chambers are, as a rule, located in regional centres, meaning in district headquarters, and schools, or professional schools within the meaning of this law, are located throughout Serbia, in all municipalities, there is very little chance that the employer's representative from this law will attend the final or prom exam, especially because he does not have his own compensation. We know what business the Chamber of Commerce is. These people also have far more important obligations than going to attend the final, or prom exam of a student there from a village, some places that can be 80 miles [80 km] away or maybe 100 km [100 km] from the headquarters where the Chamber of Commerce is located. That this is indeed the case of example and secondary vocational schools, where in working with extraordinary candidates, similar problems also arise, as teachers work in several schools and cannot respond to this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24799	Thank you. I would ask my fellow Members to report on time. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24800	Thank you. Article 32 speaks about the final and graduation exam. Here's another example of the bad solutions this law contains, that's the fact that a Chamber of Commerce is being introduced here as someone who will determine representatives of employers who will check acquired competences during learning through work. Now the question is – how many jobs and what is the Chamber of Commerce supposed to do and where is the end of the transfer of jobs done by ministries or other state institutions to the Chamber of Commerce? The Chamber of Commerce should be an employers' association, which takes care of the achievement of the interests of their members, voluntary association, but seems to have another idea. Real from the Chamber of Commerce government in the government. In various laws, the Chamber of Commerce adds competences that it has never had and that have nothing to do with the purpose of which commercial chambers are established in the world, including in Serbia. Here, so, if this legal solution is adopted, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce will appoint representatives of employers to check competences during learning through work. There is no way that you, who will be these people, who will be employers, how, whether employers will propose some of their members to those committees or whether the Chamber of Commerce itself will choose, whether at some competition, how it will all be done. We don't know that, but it certainly won't be good quality and, we believe, it won't give a proper assessment of acquired knowledge with learning through work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24801	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24802	Article 32. The draft law on dual education and the 32nd appeal from this pay phone to withdraw this law from the assembly procedure, not to bring it in, and that resources, both human and financial, focus on solving the burning problems of primary school education, which is so bad that at the end of primary school, children have too bad educational results, and many of them fail to enroll in high school, and our goal is to increase the number of children who attend high school by 2020. One of the ways in which this means of applying this law could be much more useful is to relieve the financial burden of parents who have children in primary school and who have to pay, above all, textbooks, which are extremely expensive and cost between 10,000 and 17,000 dinars, depending on where the child's class goes. The textbooks must immediately become free of charge and their purchase costs must be covered from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is a negligiblely small cost in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and every parent, especially one who has more than one child, will mean extremely much. This will also help teachers, for teachers are parents who work for extremely low wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24803	The 32nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24804	Dear Vice President, this is about conducting a final, or prom exam, and this member of the law has extremely well foreseen how and how this is done, as well as participants and final exam players. It is not true, as the opposition representatives say, that there is no telling how the Chamber of Commerce will participate in the process and how it is known. Today, the greatest achievement of modern education in professional schools is this triangle between the Chamber of Commerce, between school and employer. They all participate in their own way, both in conceiving and performing educational work and indeed this law on dual education is the greatest achievement, not only with us here now, but also in the modern world in all professional schools, not only with us but also in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24805	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24806	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with the diplomas will be an addition to the time spent in practice. I still advocate that, like Russia, Peter the Great when he brought shipbuilders to train his men, for that kind of instructor. Of course our own, so that those I already talked about who robbed the country along the way and spent all that money abroad on expensive shoes, jewels, watches, even yachts. With them is that: stand the galleys of the king, that their yachts may pass. So we need shipbuilders. Since their appetites are great, they have concentrated a certain part of the wealth that caused poverty, and now that money needs to be distributed properly. This law contributes to the proper distribution of this among citizens, that those who have become sick can do so a piece of the jubilee, which someone has taken away from them, that they too get a little warm and give back to the money that their parents or themselves, while they were young, took away the party of the former regime while destroying the economy and everything that could be destroyed in Serbia. That way, I'm talking again, money's gonna come together, because that poor girl is not gonna spend money on Virgin Islands, she's gonna spend it here on valuable masters, hands, and that's how our budget's gonna get fuller and fuller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24807	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24808	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm not going to talk about the Maldives, the galleys, the yachts and the like, I'm going to try the amendment. So, in Article 32. - final prom exam, two sentences in the way. One says – when checking bankruptcy competences during learning through work, qualified employers are required to participate without compensation, and immediately below that – the employer's representative of the 3rd article's position is appointed the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. In these two sentences we have deleted the words – without compensation and with the qualified employer's representative present the representatives of the ministry. It's in the direction of yesterday's desire to return to you, because I repeat, we have more trust in the competent ministry than in the employers' union called the Chamber of Commerce. In the explanation you gave me, which is why the amendment is rejected, it is said that Serbia's Chamber of Commerce sublimes all employers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia by losing the possibility of unfair competition. It is true that it gathers all employers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but it does not necessarily mean that the possibility of unfair work or the litter of corruption will be lost, but it can be a beautiful mask for corruption to work. For God's sake, we're all here together, but we'll only be chosen, those who, for some reason, answer to us, give these ingenuity. In this regard, we considered it very smart and desirable to add to the amendment that qualified employers and ministry representatives participate in the examination of acquired competences during their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24809	Thank you. At the title above Glava VII, the title above the Articles 33rd and 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24810	Thank you. Chapter VII – material and financial security of students, also includes a total of three members for whom we have proposed to delete and art. 33, 34, 35. Why? We believe that the Law on Dual Education is bad, that it came up as an idea of an experiment of the Swiss Chamber of Commerce, that it will serve as long as there is funding of experts who know better than we do what our children need and that it is not authentic or a solution to the context that Serbia has today in education, and it is far from giving any results in the development of knowledge in Serbia. That's bad. In the process, it is a shame that we lost 72 hours of this time to discuss this law without really talking about the state of knowledge and education in Serbia. Here are three members who show that you can't have development from free child labor and that all folklore stories about how it will contribute to anything in Serbia doesn't hold water. We'll see about that in two years when this law begins to apply. For the first time in Article 33(4), the employer has an obligation to pay the insurance during work. There's no way to apply this. You know. There's no way. There is no supervision that you can tell any employer -- you did not contract insurance because you can't do that for employees across Serbia. So you're putting in a fictional provision, believing that there are us who don't know what an insurance contract is and what employers' rights are. Bad for both children and parents, and for you, because you will have in your hands a law that will not be applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24811	Thank you. On the 33rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic, together by Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24812	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to article 33 of this bill. The Serbian Radical Party believes the conditions for passing such a law have not been met, as employers will not be able to meet the conditions set before them by this law. The comparisons for the period between 1920 and 1936, Macarenko, the famous and largest Soviet pedagogogogog, were brought up by educationally abandoned children, about 3,000 students, in working colonies. I don't want to compare this so much and think it's the same, but I said last time that this law, when conditions are obtained, can have a positive fact so much that hiring younger people, especially young people, will prevent in one part of the juvenile delinquency, but provided that the conditions are obtained. The lack of this law, when you look at it, is not the issue of damages. What happens if the employer’s student harms purposely or rudely? Who will bear the damages? Let's say you put a stone or a brick in a machine worth 100,000 euros, who's going to compensate the employer for the damage? Will this be compensated by an insurance company, which has an insurance limit that does not cover even 10% of the damage that can occur and will in that case be subject to the Bond Relations Act? One question, Minister, is it possible for a man in the education process to work and be treated in a neuropsychiatric special hospital?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24813	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24814	Thank you. Article 33 of the Duo Education Act speaks of the material security of students and, among other things, it also states that the employer is obliged to the student in dual education, so to learn through work to provide insurance for injuries during learning with the employer. We have three types of insurance that I'm interested in getting an explanation of how they're going to be implemented and whether they're going to be implemented and one of those three. The first type of insurance is necessarily state pension and disability insurance, the second type of insurance is commercial insurance due to accident and accident, which is purchased in insurance houses, and the third type of insurance is the responsibility of the employer for the damage done to third parties, including workers, therefore, employees, where they are also treated as third parties. When it comes to first-state compulsory pension disability insurance, Article 10, which defines which law protects the rights of pupils, intensibly leaves out references to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which is not referred to as the law under which the rights of the students will also be protected. I am interested, since nowhere else explicitly states that the employer is obliged to pay the student in work for pension and disability insurance contributions, will the student who receives permanent disability during the work receive the right to a disability pension or not? In Germany, he wants it now, so I wish we had called here for a German model, not just some other things that satisfy the interests of employers. When it comes to private commercial insurance, this reference is made to the Labour Safety and Health Act, which is already completely inconclusive for workers, so it will also be for students, because the minimum amounts are not prescribed and there are no criminal provisions, so it is possible to provide workers with a single dinar or not at all. Now that same practice will be passed on to children. In the case of a third type of insurance, the employer’s responsibility in this country is practically not working, as in court it is almost impossible to prove the employer’s responsibility and in that name to obtain adequate compensation. So I get the impression...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24815	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24816	We have a list of good wishes here, but that list isn't good enough either. He says the student is provided with means and equipment for personal protection at work, without definition of the size, in what way. In fact, the cost of transportation from school to the place of learning through work and back, what if someone registers from the School of Commerce in Belgrade, does the employer pay him that transport or does it apply to the place where he lives, if the employer is based in the same municipality, or in the same city? If that's the case, it's preventing the freedom of movement of people, labour and learning. The cost of eating in accordance with the general act of the employer, if the employer has a general act not to bear the cost of eating, that means there is no such thing. Nothing obliges the employer to bear these costs. Security in the event of an injury, I think those colleagues who spoke before me have explained enough, so there's no need for me to repeat it. The employer can provide the student and cover the cost of accommodation and nutrition in the dormitory, yes but not necessarily. That means we're going back to that level where someone was born and that they can't go to school somewhere else. The question for the minister, what happens if the employer is in bankruptcy, if the employer is in a state where he is today, the great success of the Vukic government, the Serbian glass factory and that privatisation or "Gosa" or "FAP" or 200 other companies that neither pay wages, nor pay contributions, nor pay any tax obligations? What about the kids who eventually go there to get a dual education?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24817	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24818	As my colleagues have already said, this article 33, after Article 34, speaks about material financial security of students and if we had a real dual education law, then here we would be talking about paying students the costs of social, health and pension insurance, but there is no such thing here. It would probably be a speech if the students were to enter into an employment contract with the employer, but there is no employment contract in this law. What this law, we repeat, is going to produce cheap labour, because these students will do some work with learning through the work of the employer when the employer is comfortable with it. When there is a need to increase employees, he will get the cheapest workforce possible, a labour force that will be paid 70% of the minimum earnings in Serbia, without any obligation to hire the student's employer later, so that the young man can make progress, that he can start a family and stay in Serbia. Today in Serbia, it is not a problem that we have unskilled or lazy labour, which young people do not want to do. The problem is that we have such laws that allow employers to keep their employees in slavery, to pay them minimally, not to hire them indefinitely, but to keep them in a state of heaven and on earth endless extensions of the contract and that young people cannot make decent profit and start their lives in Serbia and continue. That's why we don't have the education of metal scrapers, welders. These people find their jobs outside Serbia, looking for work outside because they cannot find a permanent and decent job in Serbia. Until we can solve this, we're going to have this problem, and this law on so-called dual education is in no way solving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24819	Thank you. Just to let you know that your MP group no longer has time to discuss. Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24820	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, this is about what an employer should provide, starting with personal protection, the transportation of students, nutrition, injuries, etc. It is tragic and regrettable that the MPs of the opposition are planting, not only us, MPs from the post, but also the parents of the students. They forget on purpose or do not know that the principle of obviousness or, as the Croat brothers would say, one, not of the most important, but of the most important of 13 didactic principles and that just through dual education we realize this principle and bring our students to the highest degree of knowledge that will produce the highest degree of productivity that will benefit both our students and our parents and our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24821	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24822	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, firstly, an employer in bankruptcy cannot participate in dual education. So it's past the time of the bankruptcy directors and the appearance of the "stollović Del Boy Company". That time has passed. Imagine he has to train someone. Number two, please understand for my fellow farmer. This is about nutrition, and he's been paying more attention to drinking, so he doesn't get it a little bit. So, it's about nutrition and transportation fees or housing and nutrition, which is already a series of dormitories, building schools, agriculture, which the minister certainly knows better than I do. I know I count a dozen agricultural schools that are already doing it and they're already doing it. This is a chance for your parents to clear your budget. Those parents that the party of the former regime, and my fellow farmer, who robbed the unfavorable. They took their right to dignity, the right to be able to educate their children. This is a chance for kids to have allowance, to buy their shoes, jeans, jackets, not to have to steal, not to have to watch other kids have it. It's an opportunity for parents to restore dignity, taken away from them by wild predatory privatisation. They were deprived of the opportunity to apply their knowledge for the benefit of society, state and family, to bring wages home. That right was taken from the crime scene that they derived from the former regime's party and the bankruptcy directors, together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24823	Thank you. The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24824	Thank you, Vice President. So Article 34 speaks of a student being entitled to a fee equal to 70% of the minimum labour price. We've already said, when you talk about Germany, which you look so much at, no one in Germany would ever think that these children would pay less than the minimum wage. But when you told us about Germany, you missed telling us the whole truth. You failed to tell us that these kids, who go to dual education in Germany, are seen as some losers, losers who have no further right to school. You didn't tell us they were children from extremely socially endangered families, you didn't tell us what percentage of those children dropped out of school before schooling and that the percentage was several times higher than in other children in Germany. You haven't told us how many companies give up on the dual education process, but even if it's different in Germany, you haven't told us that even in Germany there are problems with the conditions in which these children work, and you can think about us, where there are problems with the conditions in which adults, workers, who know very well what their rights are doing. Even if it's different in Germany, we don't need dual education. We don't need it, because we don't have conditions for dual education, because we lack another partner in dual education. One partner is the state, which we have, and another partner is the economy, and we lack this business partner, and the fact that children will be paid, that they will not have any guarantee of employment after the end, says that it is not your goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24825	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24826	It is very brave to say that 60% of the youth in Germany is a loser or 70% in Switzerland are losers. I didn't tell you that, anyway. But, let's say, I can tell you that the current German ambassador to Serbia has completed dual education, as well as the previous Swiss ambassador, as well as the general director of the Simensa. (Alexandra Jerkov: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24827	You have no right to a replica. (Alexandra Jerkov: How can I not? ) On Article 34 of the amendment, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandar Cabraja, Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24828	When, within a few days, you adopt this proposal for a law on dual education, then the representatives of the regime, when they visit the white world of various private companies, will be able to complete their offer. So far, they've offered the cheapest labor force, and now they'll be able to do it for free, and we've been saying it for a few days how much we've been discussing this, and you're trying to mock such claims, and here's a member of the 34th that confirms it. Nice in article 33 you wrote about the material security of the students and here you said that this material security employer provides, and that's fine. But when it comes to the financial security of students, or paying students for that work, because they will actually work through that dual education there and you here do not guarantee that the employer will pay them that work. You say in the proposal of a 34th student who conducts his studies through work he has the right to compensation, and where does it say that the employer has an obligation to pay him back? It doesn't say. Mr. Minister, it can't stand like this unless you're on the employer's side, and this law is. It must have been said here that the employer is obliged to provide the student who conducts learning through the work with compensation, whether it is 70%, less or more, it is something that can also be discussed, but you do not commit an employer to this member, but you leave it at will. These provisions of the law are always problematic and always lead to abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24829	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24830	Thank you. Article 34 of the dual education law defines that children in the process of learning through work will receive a cash compensation of 70% of the minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Now it's time to say a few words about that profit, and about the minimum earnings and the average earnings and about 70% and minimum earnings. So poverty in Serbia is high, over 61% of employees earn less than 41800 dinars. Over 61%. Since there is no better response to poverty since 2012 to this day, citizens are now offered to come to money faster, stronger and better, sending children to work early, through dual education and in this lies the key to the argument why this will put the child’s right to choose, because every parent in financial and material poverty, which they sense and children, will rush for this fast solution. Because when poverty is great, then political bidders of cheap and fast solutions in that poverty try to profit, buying votes for 2,000 dinars, and they get away with it. And that's how they win the election. Dual education, here the government actually offers us as a general key and a general solution to getting out of poverty, and we will see the truth only in a few years and in fact, this government is trying to buy itself time, because it will take time for the child to enter, complete dual education, find a job, and realize that in partnership between schools and employers there are no employers or that there are jobs, but that the profits are small, and employers are missing. So it will take time to realize that the domains of this law are very small, and we could have done something completely different with a small move and little money of 25 million euros, do a big deal to our citizens, give them free textbooks. That would solve a lot more problems than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24831	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24832	In this article of the law, we are talking about this famous fee for learning through work. In principle, the minister also said that it was written that 70 % of the minimum labour price would be paid, because these students would not even work full fund hours, so it is not logical for the employer to pay the full minimum labour price. But what it says here is that it will be paid by hour, spent on learning through work. So, the clock. Whether those hours will be as this law says, a maximum of 30 a week or 120 a month, and then 70% of the labour price. The labour price is minimal in Serbia at an hour of 130 dinars, 70% is 91 dinar. Now multiply 120 hours maximum times 91 dinar, that student under these circumstances can earn a maximum of 10800 or maybe a little more dinars. It's now a price that will be offered to employers. As my colleague said, there's a little wrinkle, it's not an employer's obligation, it's a student's right to make that fee, but it's not here as said in the previous article – the employer provides compensation, but says – the student has a right, so if the employer doesn't provide it, then they'll tell the student - well, go and complain to some court, whether the inspection is educational, whether it's an inspection of the work. Who's the minister? Who will the student complain to if the employer does not pay for this minimum minimum, or below minimum? Who's gonna be able to complain to, and who's gonna take care of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24833	Thank you. National MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 34th amendment, in the same text. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24834	Dear Vice President, here, as we have heard from the opposition's representatives, they are in every way trying to disenfranchise this member of the law, not only this one but the whole law, and this member is being told that the student can get 70% of the lowest labour price, so at least 70%. This percentage has a educational function. They're either not gonna say it on purpose or they don't know it, or they're not dealing with it or they're setting it up. So first-line educational function. Why? Because while learning, the student has already achieved one of his educational tasks, that the results of his work depend on the level of income today and tomorrow. So this is learning with work and through work. It is interesting that against this law, those who have damaged the budget, one MP from the Republic of Serbia, with 530,000 euros, and he was the Prime Minister of the former and foreign affairs, and it is known that for these 530,000 euros, he has laminated the vine on grass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24835	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there can be no less than 70% of the fee here. There are also penalties for employers. It can't be smaller, which means it can be bigger. It can be much bigger, but that 70% also means a lot. It brings dignity back to both the student and the parents that it's worth the effort and the work, that it's worth the manual/hands to produce something, etc. The dignity of each of them returns. Every one of them should feel proud for making money with his hands. Why do I say there can be so much more? I was talking about instructors, I was talking about, say, Domanie Roy, the lady who makes famous wines, wineries, Egon Miller in Germany, I was talking about Bernard Arnault, Dom Perignon. Why does someone, employers, not mean the type of "don Jules Mullator", but the type "Home Perignon", why would employers who would sell a bottle of wine for 6,000, 7,000, 10,000, why not pay a student who had understood the production and replaced his hands far more, so that they, somewhere else, where they came from, made as much money as they had before? Why would an employer, if he learned as much as he did, if he had even surpassed perhaps a teacher, which is always possible, keep society going, why wouldn't he be saving, why wouldn't he pay more, when he'd get fat? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24837	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24838	Thank you. Since much has been said today about this fee for the work of students in enterprises or in some companies, the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is interested in how did you get to this 70% of the minimum labour price for compensation? I mean, these students will have all the obligations they have and employees in these companies, but simply their rights, I don't know, will be limited. For example, right, if the employer doesn't meet all those obligations to him, who will the student complain to? He's simply not employed at the firm, not for his work competent inspection work. Will he appeal to the school, the principal or anyone else? Who's going to protect the rights of students in these companies, in some of his training with work?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24839	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24840	Just a few answers to my colleague. Of course he complains to his school, class elders, director, because the school is competent and the educational inspection is competent. That part of the occasional job is something that gives no more rights than an educational inspection. Otherwise, to this end, a minimum of 70% is always said 70%, and in fact it is a minimum and a minimum is protected through criminal provisions in other ways, as well as the possibility of breaking up with such employers. However, the deal between the union and the employers, which we used to prepare the law, led us to this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24841	Thank you. At the title of Chapter VIII and Article 35 of the amendment, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24842	Article 35 speaks of supervision, and we propose to delete, since even if the law is applied, it is difficult for this member to be applied when it comes to the supervision to be done by the ministry, when it comes to inspection and educational inspection, working conditions, security, etc., and especially the supervision of the conduct of the affairs entrusted to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. It's quite disputable, I haven't talked about it, but I'm serious about an individual constitutional appeal, looking for a basis for you to trust the Chamber of Commerce with this kind of work. It's rather discriminatory. However, I will repeat that the idea of the law is designed by experts from the Swiss Chamber of Commerce, that here it is accepted by the story – well, so is Switzerland and Germany, where the contexts of education are completely different, especially Germany, and not to mention Switzerland which is something different than Germany. What's interesting is how do you like to quote dual education in Switzerland or Germany for money from experts to be paid by Serbian citizens, and you don't see how in Germany, the defence minister, who has a plagiarised doctorate, resigns. You don't see how in Germany, in the Bundestag, the dialogue that exists, there is because they understand that the government can only be monitored by joint efforts of the authorities and the opposition. How can you not see the messages of the new President of Bundestag, who speaks exclusively of the rule of law. This is our common shame, which you think is a sentence that we share here, which my government says -- so in Germany, it means that all by worshiping a successful country of another society, I am talking about a law that is bad, which says that Serbia's development is based on free child labour and that no German expert, listening to what is said, would support it. It won't be long, so you'll hear it from the Germans yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24843	Thank you. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić and Zoran Krasic, together by Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, jointly Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Jasmina Nikolic and jointly by Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24844	The 35th member is in charge of overseeing the implementation of this law and, to cheer the people of the Ministry, he will not have the opportunity to oversee the implementation of this law, as he will be withdrawn, I said yesterday, for two reasons. Either the Proposer himself will understand that it is totally ruthless to enforce such a law within two years when it is given time to begin its application, or a different, better, more patriotic, more reasonable authority to abolish this law and carry out the necessary reforms in secondary education, particularly the obligation of that education. In article 34, we were just dealing with a work fee. Col. Marko Đurić came up with some calculation that it was about 10,000 dinars or 11,000 dinars, which is the maximum amount that can be earned through this, which means that anything that these children do in a company where they have this dual education, reads the internal qualification, that they are to the benefit of their employer, because even though a clean circle, it is a well-paid part of the job. I think the proponent himself is aware that the law is bad, but because of an idea that came from the pyramid of the government he couldn't refuse. I am also talking about the main promoters of this law in parliament, and I am not talking about the minister and his associates, but about two or a little more MPs, who are absolutely clear by their exposure, because one of them was talking about some vaccination, that obviously the vaccination failed on Tudjman's popcorn and heels. This leaves lasting negative consequences for the development of Serbian society.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24845	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24846	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 35, as colleagues have said, speaks of surveillance. By reading this article of the bill, I get the impression that we don't have a secretariat for legislation, because if we did and they did their job, something like this couldn't go away. Mr. Minister, your diagnostics are good at the state of our education system, but the way we treat it is completely wrong. The law on dual education will be something similar to that of the Bologna education system, i.e. the application of Bologna in Serbia. Since you've repeatedly pointed out here, quite right, and that's a fact that no one disputes, that you're 38 years in education, I've tried since your interest in dual education dates. I couldn't find it, but maybe I couldn't figure it out. It's about the moment you became Minister of Education. But there's one man who's had to launch it a long time ago. He, with the concern of parents, returning from Germany, said – we must start applying a dual system of education, quote – because my Danilo does not know what a plumber is. I totally understand that, but we're going to be in a situation where there's no way out. He who sows false hope shall reap empty straw. I'm afraid, Mr. Minister, that you are in a situation like this. I have analyzed the state of our three administrative districts where there are about one fifth of the population, which are Zlatiborski, Mačvanski and Kolubarski. The colleagues who talked about it and wanted to affirm this education system say there are already some schools that apply this system. The agricultural school in Valjevo has circled its cycle and industrious director and good teachers train good students. There's a need to co-operate with the economy, but you won't get any results here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24847	Bring the end, colleague Perich.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24848	You know, employers don't pay their dues to employees, let alone do it to the students tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24849	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24850	This part of the law and Article 35 deals with supervision, as my colleagues have already said, and the minister has answered the question about the previous member, what happens if the student cannot exercise his right to learn from work. The minister says -- he'll complain to the school, and then the school will start some procedure. But the question arises how will the student exercise that right? Will he have to go to court and what will happen in court when the judge asks – well, what was that student doing there, does he have a contract, what kind of contract, what is going on? From what means will he and after how long will the right to compensation be paid? This law, we repeat, leaves room for abuse, unfortunately, and is not without reason when we talk about some black scenarios and what will happen in that case. The laws should predict these bad circumstances and solutions for them, because when things go well, then there's no problem, things are solved. However, the fact is that life in Serbia is not such that employers often cannot or will not pay off and fulfil their obligations to employees, to whom the Labour Act and other laws oblige them. Now we need to get students, young children of 15, 16, 17 years of age, into this dim water. Instead of educateing them, opening their eyes, training them to be free people and citizens, we're going to get them into this blurry water and make them swim in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24851	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24852	Thank you. How will the employer and the degree in which he has fulfilled his obligations be supervised? If he fails to fulfil his obligations to the student, the student will appeal to the school, the school will terminate the contract with the employer and try to find an alternative employer, probably not within that type of activity to Horgos. I urge you to introduce in the employer reference list a criterion of its interchangeability, if possible. So, the ministry needs to supervise for control and development and as much as possible of the concept of dual education. We think that at this point the range is extremely small, for several reasons. It is currently low-skilled jobs, so they are educational profiles, low profits and few children will be included in this, so even when these children come out of their profits they will be small and create a small additional value and will be a small contribution to GDP growth. That's why German conditions don't apply to us, because in Germany, dual education concepts are not just about these jobs, but also about banks and insurance and public administrations, as well as health care, and salaries grow from first to fourth grade children. We know what salaries in the German banking, insurance and German public administration are later coming to those dual education kids. It is said in the light of the law that employers' interests are respected. However, in this very explanation, it is said that, for example, according to a study to which the proposal is referred, employers have shown their greatest desire that children are actually sent to them in administrative affairs and in IT support jobs. We have not heard for these three days that such profiles will be included in the dual education system immediately. They were mainly production machinery profiles, i.e. from industry. It is obvious that the interests of the work of employers, that part of employers who have applied, are probably included in the subsidy system and are close to the political authorities. So we think the interests of the citizens will be very little satisfied. Minister, we could've done a lot more for the citizens. They repeat just one more sentence, or I will repeat the question that we do not keep getting an answer – why did we not budget 25m euros for citizens for free textbooks? We repeat that question every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24853	Thanks, buddy. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24854	Just a few answers. I didn't work directly in the duo, because in my day it wasn't called that. I did work in various secondary schools, shipping, machinery, economic, railway, but I was also in the "Shuvare phase" when we shared at school both three-year and four-years, so we were on a teaching council and how we had contact. I was also the president of the Rakovica and Belgrade School Director Act, so I had indirect contact with it. This when you mentioned Agriculture School in Valjevo, I find it difficult to say, but it is almost so, that it may be better for a shade than many good and quality agricultural schools in Serbia and that this director is the winner and the Svetosavian Prize. But we're just working on that, until the company comes to work on the upgrade on that agricultural basis, we say -- here, we have in Valjevo, had in Futoga, we have in Pogorevec, we have in Šapec an exceptional agricultural school and cadre. Because not all the economy has yet come to attract domestic investors, but it's the same base when someone wants to open a company. When we talked a few days ago about new profiles when it comes to dual models, we have a technician for processing and designing Internet content. It's a dual profile, and by the way, through high school, especially electrical, we have models for IT talent and we have an extraordinary campaign and the pilot has gone through and we expect in over 30 cities through high school talent for IT. So there's them on all three models. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24855	Thank you. Members of the 35th Amendment, with the correction, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24856	Dear Vice President, this article is about overseeing the implementation of this law on dual education and it is perfectly normal for the ministry to do so. What's important to say is that this law on dual education is the best method of learning that knows pedagogy and that affirms the principle of obviousness. This law was initiated by our President Aleksandar Vukic in his exposé in 2014. The honourable MPs, therefore, are not surprised that this exposure is precisely in the field of education and education quoted in one of the most prestigious international magazines on the SCIMAgo list. One MP mentioned Tudjman, I think it's a former prime minister who came to this high house in red pajamas today. There is no difference between him and Tudjman, both worked against the interests of the Serb people, and one and the other robbed the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24857	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24858	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this surveillance should be thorough, especially for the part I stand for. Home of Perignon, Bernard Arnault, capital, listen carefully. The state doesn't have to kidnap 550,000 euros, it doesn't have to. If they're good instructors, if they're good surveillance and if students love and want. And the state wants and has enough state agricultural land. In such situations it should be given, not as for my fellow farmer, Dom Z.Z. Thirty-point five billion capital of Bernard Arnault Winery, which makes the famous Dom Perignon. Now imagine the state's income. So, you don't have to train people for fraud, matches, pumpkins, state fraud, but you can create a capital that's valuable, and in this surveillance you need to pay attention to it. The goal of the state and society, Mr. Minister, is for these students to get into the system as soon as they've finished school, to start a working relationship, and to keep their work hours going for 45 years, not to retire at 15 years of employment. Because these salaries will be high, as in IMT, the salaries of the welders were higher than the salaries of the directors. It's being cited here as a new example. If such personal incomes are made, pension funds will be full. Our pensioners deserve to have big pensions, but to make them work, make money, not get credit and fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24859	Thank you. To the title above IX and the Article 36th Amendment, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24860	Thank you. The next two members of 36 and 37 are dealing with criminal provisions that show that you have absolutely no intention of protecting children from possible abuses, allowing them to continue schooling, and that you really care about those children you send. With a fine of 50,000 to 100,000 dinars, the school will be fined if the termination of the contract under Article 26 of this Act does not notify the ministry within the time limit set out in Article 26(3) of this Law. I'm saying -- you can think, 50,000 dinars for a school that doesn't. Article 37 is even more scandalous. With a fine of 50,000 to 100,000 dinars, the employer will be punished if he does not meet all those things, if he does not care about the dignity of the child he makes to do dangerous jobs, if he terminates the contract without any explanation of 50,000 dinars, Mr. Sarcevic, so I don't know, it's a shame. On the side that you bring this whole law to allow these employers unlimited amounts of extremely cheap labour, which you do not guarantee these children or work, which makes it impossible for them to continue schooling now with 50,000 dinars. You punish schools and employers if they don't take care of their interests. I know you're angry when we tell you this, but it really should be a shame for you to bring this law to the assembly. What 50,000 dinars for an employer? Well, what does that look like? Does it seem fair to you that someone who abused a child, threatened his dignity, forced him to work hard jobs, didn't pay him, not even those 10,000 dinars, a school that doesn't care about children, does it seem fair to you to have that school punished with 50,000 dinars and also an employer? It really doesn't make sense. I'm not even trying to cover up what you're doing with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24861	Thank you. The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24862	The school will be punished by the ZOS, that's the system law, the big one we brought in. Just if it didn't apply, not just this, but violence against the student, anything to happen, and we have cases that it was a regular phenomenon, and here when Mrs. Radeta was saying, I answered yesterday, you were just out there, you were going to run an extremely harsh criminal policy cashed towards the director. Not just that. So they're obliged to report to the school administration directly to the ministry, so that the chain of command and decision-making would be uniform. Let me just read to you what came to my attention through the cabinet about the care of the students – The Electrical Technical School of Nis sends support to the law and during this debate, the department of electricians is full of 30 students, but there is a requirement to move students from other schools and ask for additional support from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24863	Thank you. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic, Zoran Krasić, Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sanja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Nenad Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24864	Is this director of the Electrical School of Nis, Minister, for a certain time in V.D. A condition probably? Members of 36th and 37th who speak of criminal provisions are truly amazing. It would be better if you didn't have criminal provisions than this. You have just tried to explain that the system law has resolved this, but you, Minister, cannot punish the director more than 5,000 to 50,000 dinars provided for in this law because some other law has a greater penalty. You had to look at it, the lawyers who did this to you were bad, if that's what you really think. It's just impossible that there's a fine here for a director of 5,000 dinars if he doesn't report that he broke a contract with a company, and you say - we'll punish him by some other law. It can't, it can't be. It's a misdemeanor. We don't know who's going to file any criminal charges at all. That it wouldn't be the Chamber of Commerce, would it? No, of course not. Not an employer? No, of course not. That they don't want parents? I can't, they don't have the options. So nothing's wrong with this, really nothing's wrong. This is a scandal that you predict a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars or a maximum of 100,000 dinars for an employer who does not provide all the material security of students provided for in Article 33. What does he care? What would you provide? They'll pay the fine, from 50,000 to 100,000, they won't pay $100,000. Director, responsible person, 5,000 to 50,000 dinars. He's already staked in making a contract there with some company to provide them with cheap or free labour and he'll still have trouble paying 5,000 dinars because he doesn't tell you he broke the contract. I just don't know what he has to report to you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24865	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24866	I agree with the predecessors in the assessment of the level of punishment. Also, why does this punishment only apply to not informing the Ministry of the termination of the contract? Is that the worst thing that can happen in this dual education? Are there no worse things that can happen in relation to the instructor – coordinator, employer – businessman, ministry – child? If the worst thing is not to notify the Ministry in time that the contract is broken, then there's a big problem. The fine for school, which will be paid by the citizens of Serbia, as schools are financed from the budget, means nothing. This has been the case so far, not to worry about someone in the ministry, which is paid a few million fines because no information of public importance is given or because another law is being violated, because it is not paid by anyone in that ministry, but paid by citizens of Serbia through the budget. The fine of 5,000 dinars for the head of the school, at the same time as the penalty of 15,000 dinars for the dirty plate on the car is pointless. It's not worth it. But I'm sure there won't be a great opportunity to get to that punishment. Because since the law is set, nor do I see the great mood of the students and their parents to enter a system like this, nor do I see that there is a clear way in the ministry to regulate this chaos proposed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24867	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24868	These penalties in this article are prescribed when a contract is terminated, practically related to the termination by the students, and that it is necessary in that case, or his guardian, that is Article 25. Cases when non-compliance with certain employer conditions, and then due to the lack of information from the Ministry of Penalty of Schools, i.e. Head of School. It was probably put here out of the desire to show that the Ministry will take care of the students, when these cases occur, when the students will terminate the contract because of some failure or failure to comply with the employer's obligation. And basically, it should be a good solution for the ministry to be in progress, to respond quickly, and whether it is included to ensure that these students continue their education, I suppose it was an idea and these deadlines that are also penalties. However, I must question the honesty of the ministry's good intentions in some examples of how it works, the current minister. The minister read a message of support from Nis, and I ask whether support may have arrived from Svetozar Miletic school, by a director who was not elected as you agreed with employees that they should make a proposal, so the one supported by the collective will be elected. You got three names, one name had the support of 47 seemed to me the teacher the other two had one support at a time. You have miraculously appointed yourself a director, or performer of the duty of one with, minimum support, or 20 employee support, and thus deceived the employees of the negotiation you have achieved, so I doubt your good intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24869	The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24870	Thank you. Once again, we literally appeal that this law on dual education is withdrawn from the procedure, because we and our education system in the conditions and circumstances in which we are currently as a state and society he will not solve absolutely any problems related to our education system. We don't need dual education. We need a comprehensive reform of the primary and preschool system compared to the Finnish model, in the debate in principle, the minister here said we can't stick to that model because we're not Finns. I don't agree with that, I think we're more Finnish than we are Germans, because we like Finland, before it enters the reform of our education, we don't have a developed domestic industry, and therefore we don't need too many masters and craftsmen working in foreign corporations for extremely small salaries. What we urgently need are innovators, entrepreneurs, and this dual education will not give us. This will give us high school students who will go to more education, who will start their own companies, who will develop their domestic industry, and until we have it, we don't need to introduce dual education either. By introducing dual education at the moment we're putting a roof on a house that doesn't exist, on a house in the air. Once again, I urge that this law be withdrawn and that we return to it eventually only after the reform of primary schooling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24871	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24872	I would agree with previous speakers when it comes to the behaviour of the directors of certain schools, i.e. the boasting secretaries of certain schools, the challenge of certain processes that went to the burden of Serbia's budget and citizens. However, I will repeat that in the system law adopted last month, it is no longer possible for the director to choose himself or make any alliances in the collective. So that's where the minister's role is now seen as a control role. That's where they won't be able to start these processes so easily, and they won't be able to do any damage. They could have done it by now and gone unpunished. So that paradigm is completely changing. For the sake of truth only, when we talk about Svetozar Miletic school, we have said in negotiations that they give three candidates and that I will support one of those three as the performer of duty, and when the competition takes place they will stand behind their candidate. My assessment is that the teacher mentioned at this point was the most neutral person and it gives me my experience and my right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24873	On the 36th amendment in the same text, MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24874	Dear Vice President, this is about sanctions, fines, and I think they're good students are already in the process of learning to feel what sanctions mean, and besides that, the employer on the other hand. What matters, which is that for the past 1,500 years we have been struggling with the exchange rate – we are not studying school but for life. I really do not understand why representatives of opposition MPs or deny this law will not understand or know the essence of the law or do not know the essence of modern education. So what they think won't be achieved, exactly the opposite, will be achieved all that they deny with this law on dual education. Dear parents, they lie to you, with this law you get as parents, and our students, teachers, and they get the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24875	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about penalties, unless the school delivers data on a learning interruption within eight days, etc. Why does it matter? It's important at all times to know what profiles we have, it's very important. If someone wants to have a top chef, a top waiter, and they don't want to spend money on the Maldives, they need to know exactly what professions there are and what they're going to be. So, the applications will know exactly whether or not this schooling is terminated. Well, let's just say, members of this party of the former regime are able to plan to spend 25 thousand euros there from 2020 and some years, not on vacation in the Maldives, that they won't have to give 1500 euros a day to pay for a good cook, waiter, receptionist, but that they will be able to get it in their country, and we, as a state and society in such a way, will recover through services, through trade, through profession, through wages, even, even through practice, while students are doing it, will recover some of the income that the former regime party, along with bankruptcy managers, has robbed from this valuable and abused people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24877	Thank you. On the 37th Amendment in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojić, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Živković, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Čabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Mićinović, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Gordana Čomić, Dragoljub Mic, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Denović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrović, Dusan Petrović and Dušan Miljan Miljanović. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24878	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, I hope you won't deny my word this time. We have submitted an amendment to Article 37 of this proposal for a law on the so-called dual education, which we consider to be rashed and embellished, regardless of the fact that it will only start to apply since 2019, and regardless of the elements of this law we have since 2013 the project of the German Technical Cooperation Organisation, I think it is called. The Serbian Radical Party believes that this law, not to protect students to a sufficient extent, is giving the law great opportunities for their abuse by employers. In the adoption of this law, some developed countries have been used, and I would add, the crucial experience of some developed countries, so I believe that as such this law cannot be applied, and Serbia just needs an education that is applicable. You will agree that the businesses of Germany, Switzerland or Serbia, in the end, are not the same. The whole point of the problem is, precisely, that we do not regulate our laws and our system according to our real needs and requirements, but exclusively, I underline this word exclusively, harmonize them according to EU regulations and laws. If all of this were true in support of the fact that in the existing education laws in the last few years, we have almost every year some interventions with amendments and additions to these laws, instead of building one and passing a thorough and serious law... (Dubravko Bojic: You turned off my microphone. [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24879	I didn't take your word, I took two minutes and 16 seconds. Two minutes is allowed. The word has a People's Messenger. Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24880	Thank you. The introduction of dual education, at the moment, in the education system of the Republic of Serbia, is an exceptional irrational waste, otherwise, of scarce financial resources, which could be much more useful to use to put an end to fires that cause other problems in our education system. We need, first of all, a comprehensive reform of primary school education, in order for children in greater numbers to be enrolled in high school and to have more innovators and entrepreneurs, not dual education that will produce cheap labour for the industry that we do not have, but we will import it from abroad, through large foreign corporations that we will pay subsidies to come here, to employ our children as a cheap workforce. In that sense, I again urge that this harmful law be withdrawn from the Assembly procedure, not to be passed, and that the resources, defined for its application, be shifted to a more urgent reform and more comprehensive reform, primary education, by the reputation of the Finnish model, and that the first part of these funds be determined to cover the costs of obtaining textbooks, which currently fall under the burden of parents, who cannot bear it. We need free textbooks, the Constitution guarantees us free education, and I ask you to finally see it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24881	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24882	Again, punishments that are meaninglessly small and, as I have already said, amounts that are defined to punish an employer or a legal person or an entrepreneur are completely ridiculous. It will be very interesting to explain to me how someone will determine that learning through work is carried out contrary to Article 6(2) of this Law, if in previous members of the Law and in the discussion we have found that this education is done by an instructor, who is the only one who knows how to do it, that nobody from the Ministry knows it, nobody from the Chamber of Commerce. It's a specific business that only this company does, just that company. Specializing in picking out some screws, say, or pick out whatever you want, chefs and other hens. So, who's going to determine who's the expert who's going to determine if the instructor who got the license as a coach after 40 hours of course is going to do it by law or not? Does the Minister know that? Does any of the ministry officials present know that they know how to determine whether education is conducted in the work, in the manner prescribed by the rules? Each of you knows how to identify 10,000 professions that are possible in this process. Let's be realistic and not deal with things that are completely pointless. This will lead to children being paid as those convicted by these sanctions institutions, so they are offered to do something monthly for a few thousand dinars, since we have found that it is about 10,000 dinars maximum, so let's say a construction firm is going to mix a malt for less than 100 euros a month, and it will help him to be educated to continue his professional work. That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24883	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24884	Since I do not chair, nor can I warn the MP, but in order to protect the interests of the students, it has been said here that the professions are chefs and other hens. I don't even know what "chickens" means to me. Are these all other professions in dual or just chefs worth something? (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica, to explain to the minister. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24885	No need, you've offended both chefs and chickens. (Zoran Zivkovic: It is not true that I said so. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24886	Here in article 37, we're talking about fines to be paid by an employer. First, it is really strange that this article is written in this way, that each point in Article 33 and the failure to comply with that obligation, could be said – it does not meet the obligations of Article 33 and not individually. But aside from that, we say what my concern is, if such a solution is adopted taking into account the real situation in Serbia, and some of the bad cases we're talking about here, I say a fine of 50 to 100,000 dinars, and among other things, and in case the employer doesn't provide a fee for learning through work. Unfortunately, in Serbia, it is very easy to call these students from that electrotechnical school in Nis, 30 of them, as you said there were, to go to dual education, as you'll call it if this law is adopted, and so far the practice of some employer and, say, now they work there for a month, they should all get 10-11 thousand dinars, how much 70% of the minimum profit, and that would cost them 30, 300 thousand dinars and an employer, and then, by this law, they can pay a fine of 50 to 100 thousand dinars. So, he calculates, it's cheaper for me to get to the point where instead of 300, I pay 50,000 dinars or possibly 100 if someone punishes him. What's going to happen and how these students exercise their right to receive that compensation in the end, that's my question that I don't have an answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24887	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24888	Thank you. Article 37 introduces a breach in the amount of fines for an employer who, at six points per proposal, fails to comply with the provisions of the contracts referred to in Article 15. So, you've made one completely unnecessary and non-applicable member here because you want to make a breach of the contract's provisions, whose content you've committed to in Article 15 of all contract signatories, someone, I suppose, has no one but an educational inspection, I don't see that for now, I don't know, the Chamber of Commerce has the right to conduct surveillance and so to file a misapplication. So, the Educational Inspector is going to see if they're breaching contract provisions and then what? To file a misappropriation because a contract was broken? If you still have an example in our practice in a criminal court of law that an educational inspector submits a misappropriation for violating the provisions of a contract that is consenting to will, it wouldn't be a bad thing to share it with us. What is even worse, which is exactly the same as that of the National Assembly of the Administrative Board, to decide that every member of the government, every member of the ministry, is being punished with 50 to 100 grand for not applying the law, any law, because it is written to you in a labour contract, and that would have equal meaning and equal legal force. Why are you introducing criminal charges is not completely clear in any other law, and here we will see each other in two and a half years, three, with a parliamentary question -- how do criminal penalties be pronounced, who does it, how does it get to the court, an educational inspector has no right to see judgments, who defends in court and who ultimately pays for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24889	Thank you. National MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted the same text to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24890	Dear Vice President, here is a member of 37 talking about punishments if the employer fails to carry out certain obligations. I had an impression, and I was right when I said yesterday that I had the feeling that most of the party MPs of the former regime hadn't read this law, because exactly what they were looking for yesterday, this is what it says in this law from point 1) to point 6. That is why it is very important to read the law in general to understand certain provisions of it. I will appeal again to Joseph Brodski, the winner of the 1987 Nobel Prize for Literature, who said, "There are bigger crimes than burning books, and that is unreading." So, gentlemen of the opposition bench, please read the laws in general so as not to commit a crime against our students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24891	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to take this noise too, since I know he's trying to defend my fellow farmer. I've remained obliged to explain the chickening profession. This is how you get it when you come from the village of Čagorvac, you bring a bottle of wine "donulka", and it is obtained in the winery "donulka", you put it next to the chicken in the village of Pukovac or Pukovci, then you go in with the yoghurt solution and with the syringe, you put the matches aside, and then you take your next tool, as my colleague farmer, falls into the chicken house, you put on a white coat, you fall into a chicken house, and you take the chicken and you spit with the yogurt solution. It's a little funny to you, but it happened and it's a biography of my fellow farmer. The result of this instruction, which he is spreading and trying to pass on to farmers, is that chickens after a day of time are "is dead". That's the henhouse he was doing in practice. This is the dual education he wants to transfer and, given the penalties, he should have been punished far more than the penalties of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24893	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24894	Just two remarks. As far as I know, and I'm not a lawyer, whoever's running the procedure is a party to the procedure, so the educational inspection has it right. Mr. Marco said it was an example of paying more to sue. So if it's 30 students, ten and a few thousand, let's say it's a minimum zone, but for every student, it can be initiated, so the maximum penalty for the employer is three million if the scale is applied to one hundred thousand or at least the minimum one million and a half. It's not worth it anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24895	The title above the H head and the article of the 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24896	Thank you. So we suggested that Article 38 be deleted so that this law would not come into force and that it would not be adopted. What is very important to us is that against such a bill, all professors from the university in Serbia, who wrote the Education Strategy, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. When I spoke to some of them, they insisted that this was a law that would in any case bring Serbia back decades and decades, that we would not be in a situation and be able to exploit our potentials, and the greatest potential of a nation is its population. In that case, the youngest will not be able to use their talent, nor will we as a society ever succeed in using their talent in a way to modernise our country and make them the greatest experts in the areas where they would be educated. This bill is not only not in agreement with the Education Strategy. It deepens social differences in Serbia in every way possible. Those poor families will be even poorer, and the rich will be richer. Also, this bill will lead to an increase in disparity in Serbia's regional development in such a way that those poor municipalities that are lagging behind and poor today will be in a much worse position in the next ten years, while those rich municipalities and rich cities will be even richer in the coming years. This leads to an unbalanced development of Serbia, which threatens the survival of our people and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24897	Thank you. Members of the 38th Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24898	We have reached transitional and final provisions and how sublegal acts will be coordinated. Mr. Minister, six months' time for you and your associates possible and you'll have to fulfill, but as far as the Chamber of Commerce is concerned, I must say this time again, yesterday I spoke of it, as well as my colleagues, to express my opposition to the enormous powers given to the Chamber of Commerce to carry out the instruction, or to give such powers and to carry out all that is in preparation for the instructors to train the children, to follow this process, and to simply do the work that we have heard here today from other colleagues, is not the business of the Chamber of Commerce. Simply, there will be numerous abuses and you will see, Mr. Minister, that it will not be a few months since the implementation of this law, against which the SRS is against, and someone will ask for an assessment of constitutionality. Well, you know, you have an 83. The constitution, which says that entrepreneurship in Serbia is free, but I guarantee you and you tried to deny it yesterday, that just yesterday the Chamber of Commerce, selecting these employers, will have to do it with them through a certain kind of pressure for those who do not, because you may have someone in the Babušnica who has to do it for an educated profile, and on the other hand, for those who will, there will be a certain kind of corruption in that range of chambers, schools and employers, I am absolutely convinced of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24899	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24900	Thank you. A short time ago, the minister, who here before the legislator of the law, read the wishes, congratulations and greetings he received from the mid-professional Electrical School of Nis, as they support the introduction of this dual education. For the sake of balance, I would read the wishes, congratulations and greetings that come into my inboh. Recently, one of our minister's colleagues, one of our former ministers of education, arrived, and it reads – all honour for an argumentary fight against the criminal introduction of dual education. There are those who notice both arguments and effort. In this regard, let us reiterate the main arguments against the introduction of nakarad dual education. We don't need a dual education that aims only to legitimateize bad results at the end of primary school. We need a comprehensive reform, a root reform of complete primary education by the reputation of the Finnish model, which will encourage children to develop into innovators and entrepreneurs, and not make them a cheap workforce for foreign corporations who will come here to employ them in factories that they will open, because we innovators that will start domestic production don't have, because we have poor basic education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24901	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24902	I was also very precise in the name of school, departments and the number of students. There are still many living former ministers. If we're thinking of the same guy, he wasn't interested in any kind of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24903	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24904	This part of the transitional and final provisions speaks, first of all, of the senselessness that this law here in the Assembly is debated by an urgent procedure, but that is more of the way this Assembly works and less of a minister. The minister left a six-month deadline for the adoption of acts with the bill. He gave the Chamber of Commerce a three-month deadline under this law. Of course, the Chamber of Commerce has a little less to do, but I am afraid that the Chamber of Commerce can do it in a quality way in this time period, and in particular how the Chamber of Commerce will be involved in the implementation of this law, because so far it has absolutely no contact for education, because it is not the role of the Chamber of Commerce. Chambers of Commerce are not founded to influence the education of the country's citizens, but rather to achieve the interests of its members, which are employers. But here, this government and this law puts the Chamber of Commerce as one para-state entity that deals with everything and everything, and probably at least with what it was founded for. But, unfortunately, businessmen have no choice. They have to pay compensation for membership in the Chamber of Commerce, which is mandatory without getting anything for it. Instead of achieving, to fight for the interests of its members, the Chamber of Commerce will do this part that the law prescribes as the obligations of the Chamber of Commerce – keeping the registers, issuing licences. I ask the question again -- how many quality people are there who can deal with this and will they be able to get involved in this within three months in preparation for the implementation of this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24905	Thank you. Members of the 38th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24906	Dear Vice-President Arsic, here's this article of the 38th, talking about the deadlines when sublegal acts are passed by the Minister of Education, which makes sense. Knowing Mr. Sarčević and his qualities, I am convinced that it will indeed be in six months, although the law is applied, as we have seen, in 2019 and 2020. What's important is to say, which is that the opposition MPs are constantly denying the whole of this law. I can't understand that our students want to go back to the Middle Ages, because by not applying this law, we're putting the school in a position to study for school, not life, instead of the other way around – for life, not school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24907	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24908	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this sublegal act should be passed as soon as possible. I believe 2019 will be better, but Serbia is not Belgrade. There are many environments where, for example, transportation fees, where incomes of at least 70%, where accommodation will be very important for families, for students, for those who live there, it will also be crucial for their survival in that territory. It's going to be very important for building agricultural schools. It will be very important that parents, whose poverty will certainly be less than it was, whose existence will be at a higher level than now, whose very significant income will be from it. They don't need glass balls and natural tickets. In this way, the students will be able to buy textbooks from that allowance. Aren't textbooks free then? Won't a student appreciate a computer, a smart phone, appreciate a textbook when he buys it himself? It'll be less colorful than if it gets free. That's how we got the chance to get them to just go to school. So, in America, students are also delivering newspapers, pizzas, etc. to earn income for their schooling. We weren't lucky to have that kind of income in high school. Even though we went to practice, our parents paid for everything, and that's why this surveillance needs to be devoted to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24909	Thank you. On the 39th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Vjerica Rade, Nikola Savic, Zoran Krasić, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivković, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandar Chabraja and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Gordana Čomić, Dragoljub Mic, Natasa Mićović, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Dusan Petrović and Dušan Miljanović. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article of the 39th Law applies to licenses. When you look a little bit better at this and all the laws, all the European laws that bring this power and the previous government, we'll see that the essence of all these laws is a license. Is there real knowledge behind these licenses, real skills, that absolutely doesn't matter. Today's license is more important than graduation. You can't do anything with a degree, but you can do anything with a license. Now let's see how you get the license? The licence is obtained on the principle of ‘cash end dog’, pay and bear. That is the essence, not only of this law, but of all the laws that are passed because of Serbia's European path and European perspective. The licence does not serve as an instrument that will show that someone knows the job, the skills for which he is in charge, but the licence has become an instrument for a legal racket that imposes obligations on all actors in the process of obtaining a license. Does the one with the license have any knowledge at all? It doesn't matter. We often have a paradoxical situation that the person who lays with the licensee has better skills and skills than the one he lays with, but that's our European path, that's our European perspective, and that's why I think, since this debate is being brought to an end, that this law definitely needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24911	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24912	This Article 39 speaks of the rights of persons participating in the implementation of a practical course in secondary vocational education to submit a request for the licensing of instructors. I do not see the meaning of this article if it does not exist, that is, if some relief has not been defined for those people who already participate in youth education through a program of practical teaching that so far exists and we have heard of many MPs here, citing examples from their environment, as so-called. dual education already exists in their midst. It doesn't exist. By passing this law on fake dual education, there will be no further, but the question is – why, if this member already exists, is it not added whether these people, I say, can, by some different procedure, get a license? The licence means passing a 40-hour course, meeting certain conditions, it says there, I don't know which member, who's carrying costs and similar things, but it means that someone who first wants to get involved in the youth education process in secondary vocational education, according to this new law on so-called. With dual education, he can get a license. There are already examples of these young people from Nis, probably from other high schools, probably going somewhere for practice, as they've been called so far, and someone's been working with them there. Do these people need to go through the same practice, the same procedure to get a license? If necessary, then this member is completely pointless. What does that mean, they're right? Under this law, everyone has the right, if the employer orders him to be an instructor, to apply for a licence, and I don't understand the meaning of this article, unless there are any further provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24913	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24914	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 39 should also be deleted for the simple reason that, when it comes to licences, it is again the Chamber of Commerce that determines how and how children in Serbia, in the next period, will be able to be educated, under what conditions and who the instructors will take care of them. So, in the Education Strategy, I repeat, absolutely no such thing is possible, nor is the Chamber of Commerce supposed to take charge of the Ministry of Education. What will the Ministry of Education do if Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and several tycoons with several private firms, who are interested in obtaining cheap labour, are to raise or educate children in Serbia? In this way, we will come to the conclusion that those companies that have had incredible growth in the last five years, due to the rigging of the tender, as a result of the work provided by the party in power, will be able, in addition to all of this, to get cheap labour that they will absolutely not pay, so, with instructors who will tell them what and how to do, who will have a license precisely with the consent of these companies. Finally, we will come to the conclusion that we will have an enormous exploitation of the cheap labour force and the return of child labour that has been abolished, I repeat, 150 years ago, and that is what is absolutely the sole goal of the Ministry of Education, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, and that is the profit of enterprises that, with the support of the SNS, have experienced huge incomes and huge growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24915	The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24916	Thank you. Another appeal to withdraw this harmful law on dual education from the procedure and instead to start to work very well at reforming primary-school education. Our Constitution says basic education is mandatory and free of charge. That's a theory. The first part of this theory is also true in practice. Our primary education is mandatory, our coverage is solid, 98%. However, the second part of the claim that it is and free absolutely is not true. Costs related to basic education that fall on parents' burdens reach enormous figures. The first blow is in September when parents are due to pay for the purchase of textbooks. The average Serbian household earns 57,000 dinars per month. The cost of obtaining textbooks is between 10 and over 17,000 dinars per child. We complain that our birthright is bad, and we punish parents who have more than one child by the fact that they have to get textbooks on their own instead of having those costs covered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We appeal that the resources identified for the application of this dual education are shifted to obtain textbooks on the cost of the budget for all children in the Republic of Serbia, so that parents do not charge this cost and that our basic education really becomes free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24917	National MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 39th amendment, in the same text. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24918	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsic, this is about issuing a license. I simply cannot understand that individual MPs from the opposition are either not really reading these members of the law or they don't want to see what it says. So it's quite logical to issue a licence, etc. Furthermore, I cannot understand that the previous speaker does not know that the interests of the Chamber of Commerce are also the interests of the employer and the interests of the school. Well, please, it's not the employer's interest to do cheap labour, it's profit. If his workforce is better, better quality, better trained he has both the state and every worker. Well, that's what kids teach in elementary school, now students who look at us and they know it very well. So I urge the students to be really lied to by these representatives who really interpret them. Furthermore, there will be unbalanced development, it is the other way around. It's all the other way around. The results will be higher if the student graduates from dual education, whether in Belgrade or in the local community, wherever it is. So once again I appeal to our students not to believe what is not written here, but to what it says. After all, they know very well the teachers who work with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24919	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't be disturbed by those who earn me, I just don't get it - two, three days already a man throws, throws it away, if I did it to them, it would be on the TV because the godfather of Vuk Jeremic, who edits the diary. But let me go back. The instructors are at stake, and here the subject was wrong by that ball instructor or the natal map instructor, etc., she was talking about free textbooks. I hope she didn't mean free birth tickets, free balls, etc. I hope this instructor for "heinicen" for "tuborgs" and other beers didn't mean that kind of instructor, but I, Mr. Minister, think we should get quality instructors and this school will not be free, and students can earn something. Radoslav Milojic, throws it out of place. ) These comrades on the "Serb of mammals" a little bigger mammals keep getting it, but they can't distract me. They would likely train instructors to train the "Sports Association of Charplans". Here, there are people from Smederevska Palanka, so let them tell if I'm telling the truth. Well, for a million and 890,000 dinars to train charplanns how to climb from Palanco to Char Mountain and that would be worth that million and 890,000 dinars or "Glibovac", that football club whose players got 4,000 euros as if they were playing in Manchester. There must have been some coaching instructor training them in such a way as to easily cheat, earn, pump money. However, where there is a lot of throwing and empty words, there is no bread, be safe viewers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24921	On the 40th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Verica Rade, Zoran Krasić and Dubravko Bojić, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Živković, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Gordana Čomić, Dragoljub Mic, Natasa Mićović, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Radoslav Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrović, Dusan Petrović and Dušan Miljan Miljanović. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24922	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. What the Education Strategy has said about the law, Mr Sarcevic, is that it cannot be copied by other educational solutions, especially those that exist in countries that are by no means like Serbia, not only by the economic development of those countries, but also by the educational history and reforms that these countries have implemented hundreds of years ago in their societies. So we can't rely on what education policy is in Germany, Switzerland, Austria because such an education policy doesn't fit our system. First of all, we don't have a strong economy that is necessary to think in theory about such devastating solutions, we don't have a huge flow of migrants and free jobs where migrant children, who can't be assimilated, can't learn language, can't accept European culture to sort of be educated in a way that no one in our society will work for, or jobs that lack the interest in the workforce to do. Here the situation is next, in Switzerland and Germany a huge number of schools do not renew contracts with entrepreneurs, a huge number of schools in Austria and Switzerland are slowly leaving the dual education system, and that is something that is slowly trending, because the next phase that these developed societies will enter will not absolutely refer to such a devastating solution. For that reason, I ask you once again, we have another amendment that reads to be deleted, so that you do not at all allow this law to be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24923	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24924	After a few days of debate, we came to the last amendment to the proposal for a law on dual education. When I look at these last two members, it seems to me we don't have to be too scared, because actually the government has no intention of implementing this law in life. The government will not be educated for 60 days, as planned, to the Commission for the Development and Implementation of Dual Education, and the law will only apply from school 2019/20. years, maybe yes, maybe not. This Commission for the Development and Implementation of Dual Education should work to implement and improve dual education and three-year evaluations of open results. So it's going to form in 60 days, and it's going to do something that's going to be, which is actually going to start to apply only school 2019/20. A year. This is actually saying that this is pretty sloppy all done, that it didn't make sure that at least the members were in one agreement with each other and that all of this when we sum up today to at least create an impression that it was a formally good bill, even though we made it clear to us from the SRS that it was a fundamentally bad law and that it should not be applied and that it would be best, it's not too late yet, to withdraw from the procedure. But, I'm saying, and if we weren't such an attitude, you heard, we'd have a lot of objections because you formally didn't do the right thing. To finish with one request from the Minister, allow a few seconds for Arsic, you are a trained man, you have legally earned a degree, please make sure that in this commission you educate not to be people with bought diplomas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24925	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24926	At the end of the debate on the so-called law. to the dual education, once again to repeat the reasons why we are against this law and why we have insisted on this debate on amendments, where we have sought to delete each member, why this law is bad and should not be adopted. The law does not meet Serbia's education needs, the law does not meet Serbia's strength and state of business. It is not something that will contribute to Serbia's economic development. This model of education, dual, of the true dual, and not of this so-called so-called, works in highly economically developed countries, and for developing countries such as Serbia, a different model is needed. A model that will take advantage of all the human potential that this country has, because our development cannot be based on tones or the amount of some products produced, because we do not unfortunately have the economy that produces it. It can be based on innovation, on new ideas, on people's talent, which is something we don't need dual education for, but needs as much as possible coverage of high school students as possible. It's a model that needs Serbia, whether it's Finnish or another, we don't have to call it a name, but it's certainly not what we have. This, unfortunately, will result only in employers involved in this programme being provided with short-term cheap labour, and young people will lose their perspective and will continue to think only about how to leave Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24927	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24928	Thank you. Here's the last chance to appeal once again for this harmful law not to be passed, to withdraw from the procedure and instead to focus resources, financial and human, on a comprehensive reform of the primary education system, so that this system finally starts to produce innovators and entrepreneurs, and not what we have today, which is children who need to go into dual education, to become a cheap workforce for foreign corporations, who will come here to hire them for minimum money. We're going to expose the children to a completely unnecessary risk of employers exploiting them and those underage children before they even got to adulthood. I would also briefly look back on the crystal ball that MP Risticevic was talking about as he defended his amendment to the score, yes, I see the future, it is beautiful, there is no MP Risticevic in it, there is no SNS in this House, and the textbooks are free of charge for all children in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24929	National MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 40th amendment, in the same text. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24930	Dear Vice President, Mr. Arsic, here is this member, the last one, 40th speaking about how the Government of the Republic of Serbia will educate the Commission within 60 days. It is not true that this commission is not needed and that it is too high, as representatives of opposition parties represent. The formation of this commission by the government, Mr. Minister, speaks of your seriousness as a minister and your ministry and about the seriousness of the entire government, and also of the representative of the position, how seriously we have come to this law in general. I am truly convinced, not 90%, but 100% that this law will come to life. It has already come to life, showing the fact that 1,800 companies have already shown some interest. That's why I can't understand that our students are convinced that this isn't in their interest, it's in their interest, in the interests of students, in the interests of parents, in the interests of the Chamber of Commerce, in the interests of entrepreneurs and in the interests of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24931	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I was in a crystal ball, I thought it was glass, but it seems to have gone to a higher level. What does Rosca say? He says I'm gone. I need to see what Grisha says, the one from the appearance of Kradulovic Del paints the company, maybe he has me. He had everything. He's got the most in Itheza Bank. Maybe they don't know. Otherwise, they're from that crystal ball. The Commission needs to be established to closely monitor dual education, which should be done as soon as possible, but also to keep an eye on bankruptcy managers, not to deliberately involve some firms and some firms in bankruptcy, so that those in dual education don't have anywhere to work. That wouldn't be weird to me if it was some kind of pest that destroyed this country. (Radoslav Milojic): What about the bunny? This one, which throws, Mr. Chairman, constantly throws, is charged by the prosecution, and you know we're about to replace the prosecutor in Smederev, who protects him, who embezzled 459 million 110,885 dinars and doesn't matter. The "low construction" case when he concluded a 25-year contract with a low construction company. I guess he's a heinie who believed he'd stay in power until he retired. He made a 25-year contract. All the lawyers know that for more than five years he couldn't, but in Palank, the truth is, there's no beer alive, only foam left, he's drunk, but also 110 million dinars. Let's move on, the "compression" case, the state transferred him, the tap, 320 beers for the evening, so he's probably also called the Serb Simonovic Sisavac, it looks like big mammals, like whales drinking beer. Either they drank whales or they drank and bathed, 45 million 123 thousand 212 dinars. Let's move on, for refugees, he took out 13 million 813 thousand 365 dinars from the refugees.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24933	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24934	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm suggesting a breach of article 108. I know you can't or can't interrupt Alexander Vukic's favorite MP and the image of the previous speaker, but I ask you to lead this session in the direction it should have. The next time I report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'll use my two minutes to list here everything that's ruined the SNS, but now I'm not going to ask you to run this session properly. Maybe next time I'll say which MP damaged the state by two million euros, but this time I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24935	Mr. Milojicic, do you want me to answer your injury to the Rules of Procedure or not? You don't want to. (Radoslav Milojic): My wife is at home and someone's in prison. I will answer because I feel the need not to make a scene as some MPs are privileged. I've been listening for almost two hours to you tossing out your colleague Risticevic whenever he talks... . (Radoslav Milojic): Balša is weak in hearing and I need to speak more strongly. You need to talk harder? (Radoslav Milojic: Balša is not hearing well. You mention his wife and mention some bunny... .. And you're whispering to your colleagues, Bozovic? [[Radoslav Milojic: Bozovic doesn't hear well.]] (Radoslav Milojic: Yes. Well, then I'm sorry. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? On the 41st Amendment in the same text were submitted by the MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic and Zoran Krasić, together by Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivković, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Čabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Mičunović, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stanković and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Gordana Čomić, Dragoljub Mic, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Denović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrović, Dušan Petrović and Dušan Miljan Milišević. He's got a colleague. Do I have to call him "Balša Bozovic" louder? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24936	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. What matters is, this is the last member we also propose to delete so that the whole law actually falls, or the bill. So, the whole modern world tends to spend all day learning and lifelong learning, and that is what today is the practice of every modern society, that those talents develop to the limit so that they can take absolute advantage of all the benefits of education that a society has and that some young generations have acquired. Instead of continuous learning and lifelong learning, three years of learning is being introduced here in a completely different way. So instead of lifelong learning, you have something that only lasts a few years in factories, and that's in those companies where the goal is profit, not the goal of quality education, so that citizens who stand upright and who are masters of their own destiny come out of such education. Also, dual education directly threatens Serbia's economic development in the long term. We are constantly, and this year, and every next year we limit ourselves to some growth of GDP from 1 to 1.2%. So we will disappear as a people, disappear as citizens, disappear as a state, and dual education will unfortunately speed up the process. We cannot offer a young man "The Iron" in Smedereva as a way to become the master of his destiny, a citizen who has his own position. Just one day if you've been there and spent since such evaporation, of such working conditions, you can't offer a young man such a thing or something in the 21st century as a guarantee that he'll be competent in the labour market in Europe tomorrow. So it is obvious that the SNS has given up on the road to the EU, and dual education is exactly what it confirms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24937	The right to replication, to mention the political party, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24938	As for this catastrophic road that we're going to take, by introducing dual education, I really ask, I practically appeal to the MPs to contact urgently all EU countries that apply this model of education, to inform them that we have just discovered that they are on a difficult road and that they are going to fail. Here, we just heard that. I ask everyone who has listened to this, to contact the representatives of Switzerland, the representatives of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany to tell them that they will fail and we must urgently stop them, not to crash into this disaster by applying dual education. That's what we just heard and we learned so much. In addition, we have learned to introduce three years of education. So I'm also asking you, when you're on the phone, to contact all those who are now, in Serbia today, being educated according to the three-year program, to inform them that this will just be established, so that this has not existed until today, where they go to school and what they learn, there is no such thing. So much for seriousness and concrete things when it comes to grudges about this law that is by its nature good, beneficial. That's what he's saying enough to apply himself here where he's applied, where in a few places we've tried to influence the MPs to simply connect one and one, it's not that hard. Whoever doesn't have to, it's not our problem. On the subject of giving up European integration. That should not be said to those who achieve good results in that direction, who open chapters. Perhaps that question should be asked precisely by those who are driving it today, who, in the spirit of good international relations and co-operation, brutally insult EU representatives with the understatement that these people are themselves against European values, that they are themselves against the rule of law, that they are themselves against democracy, freedom of voice, freedom of words, etc., and that, imagine, they tolerate us all so terrible and nothing. So stop insulting the EU. Show that you really care about this Europe, and in the meantime try to do something good for the citizens of this country, if you have learned something in the meantime when we are talking about knowledge and learning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24939	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24940	The only good thing about this last member is that its application is moving for the start of the school year 2019/20. A year. We have a chance to convince this minister or someone next this time, almost two years, to give up this concept, because he is not, I repeat, good for Serbia. It can function in technologically highly developed countries, such as Switzerland, Germany and Austria, but not in a country that has to develop economically and whose potentials are the greatest. We should take advantage of the people, and when this government, the last government was elected in June, the Prime Minister said one sentence that it aims to restore trust in education. Unfortunately, in these few days of debate this week and last week, there has been no debate on how to restore trust in education. I repeat to you the recipe that I have told you in June of the Minister, trust and education you will most easily return to check the diplomas of all members of the government, all the officials of the ruling parties, to see who and how many of them have graduated from the university, as we could see here and hear the estimates from the President's index of the Republic, I welcome it, but I would like to see the index of Minister Vulin who studied in Novi Sad and finished the Faculty in Kragujevac, as he said, many other members of the Government, high-ranking officials, to see their doctorates and various other diplomas that are being given in public, for which education in Serbia has a reputation like he has. Let's see all this, and we'll get back to education very easily and very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24941	The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24942	The SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 41. Proposal for a law on dual education that requires the removal of this article. Article 41 reads - this law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication in the ‘Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ and shall apply from the school 2019/20. A year. This member clearly and unequivocally indicates that there are no conditions for introducing dual education. The economic and economic situation in which Serbia is located does not allow dual education to be introduced. There must be a strong economy to introduce it, and that's not the case with us. That is why we find it absolutely pointless to pass a law which is known in advance that it will not be applicable in practice. This bill is ill-conceived and it protects employers' interests, not students. Whether you want to hear it or not, this bill allowed employers to use students as the cheapest workforce, to use them to do the hardest and dirtiest jobs and to get 70% of the minimum labour price. Then, by this bill, you prepare students to be illiterate labour, destroy future generations instead of creating conditions for quality schooling. I would also point out that this bill did not clearly define the insurance of students in the event of injuries during study through work. You've considered insurance only for current injuries, but what happens to students who suffer severe injuries and remain with permanent disability?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24943	The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24944	Thank you. The last member of this law on dual education and therefore the last amendment of the parliamentary group Enough is enough – which is said to be deleted, once again, as a last appeal, that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, not to be passed. At the very end, just briefly, to sublime the basic messages in this debate, both in principle and in particular, had a parliamentary group enough was, our position in the shortest possible words – we do not need dual education, we need free textbooks. I look forward to the upcoming debate on amendments to the remaining three educational laws on pre-school, primary and secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24945	Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24946	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsic, this is the last member of the law. I am taking the opportunity to address the parents, students and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to say that this Law on dual education is the greatest educational and working victory and step of our students, our parents, our teachers, employers, the Serbian Progressive Party, Minister Mladen Sarcevic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as President Aleksandr Vukic as the initiator of this law, which will bring extraordinary educational and material gain to our students, fortunately to their teachers and their parents. Dear students, with this law you will enter the world of learning and work, which is the imperative of the modernly advanced world. All those who were of the former regime these days against this law would return you to the world of unhappiness, irresponsibility, material uncertainty, and from you would create great lesionists and freemen, as they themselves were when they ruled power in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24947	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24948	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, I am not in Mrs. Roscae's ball, nor Mr. Glisa, so I can say that this dual education allows not only free education, but also education through which you can earn something, to buy textbooks and computers. And those who shout - we don't want agriculture, we want a virtual economy, I have to tell them next. There is an old saying in the village – what seeds you sow and seedlings you can expect. Those who have made private businesses public should know that what we are doing today is exactly that seed and that particular seedling we will sow and plant. To eat a delicious fruit one day, to eat a delicious cake one day, except that you will sow seeds and plant wood, you must have good chefs, you must have good waiters, you must have millers, you must have tractors, you must have tractors, you must have masters that will make tractors. Those who object to us, I must say, for the sake of the viewer, they look like a fog-slicing crew to me, and they want to sell it to the people. They look to me like masters, and we have them, they look like people who have seeds instead of sowing, they cook it, they eat it, and then they complain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24949	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24950	Dear Chairman, I would like to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Both the previous speaker and the speaker who spoke before him spoke about everything, not just what the subject today is on the agenda of the congregation. The debate ends and the debate ends after the 41st amendment of the proposal for a law on dual education. Contribution of Parliamentarians Marijan Risticevic and Prof. In each of these amendments, Mark Atlagic was adding a single point to the text of amendments proposed by members who wanted to change. And in this last 41st term, they added a decimal point, but unfortunately, grammatically incorrectly added it, i.e. They added it where it didn't belong, but they successfully used the time to abuse the discussion of details to talk about anything that wasn't the topic of the agenda today. I note that today you are highly tolerated and on that behalf I have not even reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure until now, although it was the basis for me to report to each of these members who have been injured, so I ask you that in the day of the vote we make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24951	My colleague, I have tried to apply the same criteria to all MPs. The dual education law doesn't mean free textbooks, does it? Maybe free strings, but I don't want to talk about it right now. And no one's ever complained about it before. Then let other MPs have their own way of arguing about some law, as you are allowed. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24952	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103 of the 7th and 8. I ask you to take action and, if there is no time left for this parliamentary group to take two minutes, since someone who resented us did not stick to the agenda, and we only responded to the remarks that they made with the comments, so to subtract those two minutes because this was a classic replica, the comments of our amendments, etc. I appreciate your tolerance, but just so you know, it can escalate a little bit. In fact, the lady is known for spitting on me in her own time, but I think she spit on herself. My recommendation to all of them is that they don't spit on us, spit in their hands, twist their sleeves and start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24953	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24954	I would like to thank all the MPs for the discussion of this law and, in fact, to remind myself once again that this is just part of a system of secondary education that is very minor at the moment, but we should not forget that perhaps in the coming period it can develop. Serbia is not a rich country, but it certainly is not a mere poverty. Some of her development is visible, I personally believed it was possible to be better and faster, so I accepted this. But we're also working on changing all kinds of education, which is often respected today not to do it, and it's just the other way around. What's only true, that time coming in front of us will only confirm whether this story was good today or not. We also have that control time, which is 19, 20 years, let's say -- wait, we apologize to everyone, maybe we made a mistake. But by estimating all the experience that we have gained in the preparation of this law by visiting a number of countries, similar to us and who have little escape from us, etc., we have tried to capture the moment, to give the children to whom this corresponds, parents and businesses, because many children are alone, choosing this, first filled in the dual profiles. It has extremely good dual profiles. Let me tell you again, and that's an important fact, there was one-to-seven interest on the air profile. I think we're gonna prove that this was really good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24955	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail, and generality. You have received amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Preschool Education and Education by Members: Marijan Rističević, Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić, Jasmina Nikolić, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkić, Nenad Čanak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Božović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Niković, Maja Videnović, Radoslav Milojić, Vjerica Rade, Aleksandra Belačić, Zoran Krasić, Sreto Perić, Djeko Mirjanović, Natasa Miljanović, Netaša Jovan Marija, Neženović, Nemijena Marija, Boždar Ljubenović, Boždar Delić, Veždar Delić, Rujdić, Ružić, Ružić, Ružić, Ružić, Ružić, Ružić, Žvić, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žvić, Žvić, Mirajan Živić, Mirović. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163 of Article 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he dismissed as incomplete amendments of the People's MPs: Branke Stamenković, LJupke Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić, Jasmina Nikolic on members 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11, 15, 17, 19, 21, 22nd and 24th members and MPs Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic on Article 5. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, MP of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is about educational and educational work done in Serbian, national minorities are achieved in the language of the national minority, and the minister can also write where it will be bilingual. We wanted only by amendment to strengthen what the government wanted and to say that we strongly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24957	Parliamentarians Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24958	Dear Chairman, Mr Minister, we have proposed an amendment to Article 1 where it is said that educational work is done in the language of the national minority for members of the national minority, and can also be achieved bilingually in the language of the national minority and in the Serbian language, if at least 50% of the parents, or another legal representative of children, are defined. We have suggested that educational and educational work can be done for members of national minorities in both the language of the national minority and that education work be organised bilingually, therefore, both in Serbian and in the language of the national minority. Why? If in the beginning, from a small age, therefore, when children have two, three, four or five years of age, we organize educational work only in the language of the national minority, then through primary education, through secondary education we have the same story that is organised only in the language of the national minority, then we enter the problem that these children will know and be referred only to their national minority, they will not know the Serbian language well and will not be able to join themselves normally in society. We do not think that this should be so and that we should give them the opportunity to necessarily exercise their rights in the language of their national minority, but they cannot be excluded, or referred only to the school system that is organised in their own language without knowing the official language of the state in which they live. Then it's a problem that can escalate later through isolation in society, through national tensions, through various other problems. I think this is a solution that we have proposed very acceptable and normal and that no one is endangering, and on the other hand we are helping national minorities to exercise their rights which, by all conventions and of course, belong to our laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24959	Thank you. Mr. Bozovic, here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24960	Mr. Arsic, for reasons of correctness, during yesterday's work, I suspected that you had not measured the time fairly and that the time I had left was actually denied to me for further discussion, but I checked on the e-parliament and you were right. For that reason, I want to apologize for yesterday's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24961	You didn't have to, my colleague Bozovic. The service takes care of the weather, not my chairman. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24962	Thank you. The determination of how many preschool children will have in the languages of national minorities we do not think should be determined by the percentage of parents and legal advocates of children. The language of the environment or the university learning of a language that is otherwise spoken in a society like Serbia, fortunately, should be worth a good thing. I grew up in the part of Novi Sad where the "Vasa Stajic" elementary school was excellent, where we had a academic Hungarian language. Parents were not required to determine this, nor did they need 50%, as there are other schools where children whose mother tongue is one learn the university language as well. Not to talk about bilingual children whose parents have different mother tongues, fortunately, I have family and such children. So why should we leave that for at least 50% of parents? If it's obvious that you need the language of a national minority, whatever it is, what do you need a 50% list of parents, what do you need a procedure for it? Why do we not say: "This is good; it is good for everyone, whatever language his mother and father taught him, that he may know him for the future, that they may agree with him who is in his neighborhood, that he may work with people who speak a different language?" This is not a good message to those who speak the tongue of the majority, whoever it is, nor the language of the minority. What is a particular problem, I know that you will say that this does not apply to it, but you have an environment where the majority language is – minority language, because other languages are a relative minority. Will you ask them to say 50% of them – well, we want to learn Serbian? Don't do that. To know the languages, to have them in their surroundings is wealth, and to say, we speak six languages, as Mika Antic would say, it is good. Don't cut the percentages.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24963	Thank you. The People's MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24964	Article 1 refers to Article 5 of the basic law and speaks about the use of language in preschool institutions. The amendment we have made is aimed at harmonising the bill with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with the Law on the Use of Language and Letters. It's not done like that in this article, it's not precise. You are still explaining why you do not accept the law – you do not accept because the issue of official use of language and letters is governed by the Law on official use of language and letter. We told you that, and it doesn't stand in this bill. You say – the way and conditions of achieving the educational work programme in a foreign language, or bilingually prescribed by the minister. Minister, you can't pass the law. The statute of a preschool institution, you say, regulates the language in which educational and educational work is achieved, and the preschool program is a way of achieving it. Therefore, this cannot be regulated by the statute of preschool unless that statute complies with the Law on the Use of Language and Letters. Local self-governments regulate the use of language and letters to their statutes, and of course, it is not disputed that where there are minorities to use minority language, but as you wrote, I also told you in principle that someone might ask to open a kindergarten in Lapovo in Hungarian, or in Sainta in Bulgarian. It just can't. That's why we wanted this amendment just to help you change the law, make sense and comply with Article 10. Constitution and Article 11. The law on the use of language and letters. You should have accepted this amendment for practical reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24965	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24966	The amendment we have made concerns Article 6 of the basic law. Mr. Minister, we appreciate that you're trying to do something and do it in the ministry that you're in charge of, but given how much you need to bring in sublegal acts, how many draft laws you've already tried to defend here in front of the MPs, I get the impression that you're some super minister or something more than that, and somewhere around 260 sublegal acts, which you need to pass in the coming period, that these laws might live and be implemented in practice. We have proposed that Article 2 be made. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool Education and Education Act deletes, for the reason that the existing Article 6 limits the rights of persons referred to in Article 6 less than you are proposing. It seems to me that you're coming out of the scope of a possible, or you're entering an area where the protection of personal data will not be implemented until the end. By reading the explanation of this legislative proposal, we have seen that you have counted all the problems that have been recorded, which we, as citizens of this country, recognize, we have calculated that by the bill you will try to solve, but there is no such thing. I don't see in any of the members of this bill how you think you're increasing the coverage of children who need to attend preschool education. You've seen for yourself that there's a big difference in individual environments. Of course, you say it depends on the social nature of that climate and that's absolutely true. I don't know if you know that in certain local self-governments you have free seats in children's institutions and that there are not even enough places in Belgrade and elsewhere. In the middle, from which I come from Ljubovija, employees in preschool were funny when one of our fellow citizens came from Belgrade and already wants to announce that in two years he will enroll the child in a preschool facility. That's just not the situation. We expect you to try to put in place a better organization, a better system and try, Mr. Minister, that when there's a change of local self-government, they don't touch the directors who were successful, it's a very common phenomenon and there are later problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24967	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24968	Maybe now's my chance to repeat what we were saying in the main debate. When it comes to sublegal acts, it's not 260, it's exactly 59. Not everyone has to get along, but only those who aren't in sync, and teams are made, I don't have to be a super minister, I just have to be a well-organized job. When it comes to involving children, networks and all that and preschool and working with local self-government, I have that act that's being adopted, which is part of that loan, which is going to get rid of one part of that job, and I'm going to go to the budget real quick when we're here, to budget teams that are going to deal with the new network. So we intend to exploit all existing capacity. In Belgrade, we have already started and around 2,000 places planned. The project is already slowly being realised, mostly in New Belgrade, Zveztar and other parts of the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24969	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24970	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, according to this article and by amendment, pre-school institutions, i.e. primary schools implementing preparatory and pre-school programmes, keep records of children, parents, or other legal agents and employees in accordance with the law, which regulates basic education and education systems and this law. And the institutions referred to in Article 1 shall keep the parent book of the enrolled children, records and pedagogical documentation of educational education, records of issued public documents, records of the item 2 of point 2 of this article, and may be conducted electronically, which shall be good. It contributes to that dual education. On the basis of the records referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, a preschool institution, i.e. a school that implements a preparatory and pre-school programme to issue public documents to attend a preparatory, pre-school programme and, under one, to transfer a child from one pre-school institution to another pre-school institution, i.e. a primary school that also implements a pre-school and pre-school programme. Which is good to know who did when he crossed. Under two, the belief of attending the preparatory, pre-school programme, the registration of the public id referred to in Articles 2 and 4 of this article, the institution leads and issues in the Serbian language, the Cyrillic letter in the prescribed form, which is certainly good because we must cultivate the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter as far as possible, since it belongs almost to endangered languages and does not prevent any processes towards the EU, because for this the best example is Bulgaria and Greece. All nations keep their language and their letter. That's what we have to do, because there's an old saying, if you lose your tongue, you've lost your people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24971	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24972	Thank you. Amendments and additions to the Preschool Education and Education Act here offers a new provision that will oblige a preschool institution, i.e. a primary school that implements a preparatory preschool programme to keep records of children, parents, or other legal representatives and employees, in accordance with the Law governing basic education and education systems. We suggest that you add the part that says – and according to the Personal Data Protection Act. I know that people want to say that's understood and then wait for the personal data scandal, so let's see if it doesn't make sense. The Personal Data Protection Act will not disappear from our system, it can only be complicated, unfortunately, it will be complicated just in education to collect data sensitive species, different ages and so on, and I think it would be good to make sure that all those who handle these data have to have the authority to handle personality data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24973	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24974	Just for a little while, to remove this, to say the situation, I thought the same thing, but they told me that the system law on education and education is already contained, so this is a special law and that it would be doubled.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24975	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24976	Article 3. We suggest that it be removed from this law, it's in detail in one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight views of the child's record. Even if we agree that it is necessary in law without warning about the need to respect the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, to enter records, what is entered into the law is not to be written. Here, just to tell you the last position – the information determining the child’s health status is the information on whether the child is covered by primary health care. You put it in the law as a data that can and doesn't have to be covered by the obligations of the Personal Data Protection Act. Not to mention sharing data, he says – data that determines the social status of a child. Not to mention that in paragraph 3 you have a statement on nationality not mandatory, and in paragraph 5, that one of the data is to give information on an individual educational plan, mother tongue and nationality in accordance with the law. If you've already said it's not mandatory, why are you introducing him into attitude 5? It's not good to keep this in law. Following and what follows my Government, which wants to change the legislation in line with the EU, you will have needlessly in your head which is temporarily closed and good with small assistance to those of us who so ask – come on, do as soon as possible, you will have a European Commission remark. This can't stand in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24977	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24978	Thank you. I had good meetings with people from the European Commission who assessed the adopted roof laws. By introducing a single information system, we go to a unique educational number that will now be protected, so it's in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24979	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24980	Thank you. Our amendment refers to this member that's being talked about, but we've asked for only something to change about the home number, because when the government proposes some law, it has the status of a promoter. However, we in the procedure already have a proposal for a single birth number law. But let me expand this a little bit. Every child, up to 15 years of life, is under the law of mandatory health care. Now you're making a survey - is it? Well, it is, legal prejudgment. It's the first lack of this attitude, the third or the fourth. But you made one mistake. You are, in the first years of your life, more than raising, interested in preschool education, and I would say child care, because in the first years of your life it was more than education, you had to start from the principle of mandatory and university data, so before the data source is the parents who publish their data. The mandatory data to be reported include, of course, data on the child’s health condition, not only in terms of whether it is a callinator, whether it can cause some contagion, etc., but for the sake of monitoring and care, and you have put all of this into a few views and forced yourself to be followed by someone from the point of view of the personal data protection law, and that we do not have an answer in the law – and what if the parent does not publish the data. What if the parent doesn't release the data? This information on child's social status, I think, that you had to be extremely careful, a team before the Republic of Serbia is obliged to lead a policy of birth, a fight against white plague, by system -- every child is a dear child, regardless of the social status of parents and other specificities. Every child is a wanted child. We need children, and we need all children, from the point of view of the state and the law, to be equal, and that's why I'm telling you, since this law is practically followed by a child from the sixth month of life to the first grade of elementary school.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24981	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24982	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about data collection. Mr. Minister, you must be extremely careful here, although I believe that some people, from the so-called independent regulatory bodies, will be dealt with in time. When you have a trustee who grows up to be a political conspirator, then you have to be careful with this. I have a very bad experience. You must be very careful, because, unfortunately, it is also politically interpreted in that institution. People make political careers in places where they shouldn't do it. Well, if, right now, I'm saying something against the trustee, he's tweeting on Twitter that the lying thieves in the congregation said that, too. Then you have some kind of application for alleged personal data, and it's actually political ambitions. You have to with these political ambitions, these political ambitions, those who shouldn't have such ambitions under the law, you have to keep an eye on them. For example, I received an application because I said that those who interrupted Sljivancan's tribune, were from Cačka, Belgrade, Rijeka, etc. Then he starts charging me just because I said where those who broke up came from. I don't think it's personal information to say that someone you didn't even mention their name to came from a certain city. So, there are dilemmas in them, so it's all seen through political glasses, so take good care of these data collection and take a good look at this law if there's any changes to any more, or corrections, which may be possible, since we're dealing with a very politically ambitious man, whom I hope the mandate stands out, Mr. Martinovic, was in 2018, so I believe that a professional will come instead, as was the case with a protector who was formerly a self-protector.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24983	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24984	It was added after a member who defined records of parents, then a child records member, now a member of the employee records. As in the previous case, we ask that member be deleted. Why is it reasonable to do that? If the idea is there's going to be a unique informational number, what's it doing here? If the idea of basic law is to cover the obligation to respect the Personal Data Protection Act, what's it doing here? If the idea of it being just a transitional solution that can be in a sublegal act, the ministry is to own all of this, about what should be contained in preschool staff records, put in a sublegal act, what do you need in law? It is not rational and it is not reasonable to keep all these members in law concerning personal data. Most of the people you belong to have the right to remove and put out of force and the Personal Data Protection Act, and independently, whatever you want, it can be put into debate and to say - it will not be a problem in this country. But while it's in effect, I think it's good to keep in mind every time we make a proposal to record someone's personal data, to keep in mind what we want to do in a year, in two, what's in force, what we've missed out on, and what we can do because we have the Personal Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24985	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24986	Just to point out that Article 175 of the system law on education, ZOSOV, requires the ministry to run a register of children, students and adults. So, employees of institutions within a single impressive education system, well, not to mention. You might be right about this. However, when I asked for the opinion of various bodies to come here to the Assembly, this trustee gave us the answer that this could not go into sublegal acts, so we did it again like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24987	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond, the Government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24988	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed article and the amendment are about employee records. Also, Mr. Minister, you must take into account in the next period of this record, given that I have already warned you of the possibility that where there should be no political ambition, and where there is unfortunately, there may be a misreading, or a different relationship in relation to which it endures. So here you have a name and a last name, a unique home number of citizens, gender, date of birth, place, municipality and so on. I think the personal data include first of all the name and last name, address, ID number, unique home number, insurance number, index number, and the other is not personal data, but you have a man who took one important place, so I was already saying that you're saying that someone came from a city if he doesn't like it politically, then you have this problem with the alleged carrying of personal data, handling, etc. If you say and commend the state in an area, commend it that in a better way than it does, it asks the question of how you came to the data, about statistics that are perfectly normal and then burdens you with data processing, etc. You must be extremely careful, at least for a while, but I think the time when the Commissioner for Public Information was a conspiracy against the government, and it's not about an independent personality, that that time will soon be behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24989	On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Ms Radet, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic and together Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24990	Mr. Minister, you may not have been so familiar with the fact that our compatriots from Republika Srpska and Montenegro, which is why we have asked for the erasure of this Article 5, have major problems with obtaining citizenship, hence their children. These are processes that last, believe it or not, for a few years, and we've passed a law as early as 2006, under which, there's a very complex circumstance, Article 5 gives them the possibility that if they recognise the state of Serbia as their queen, it means that one of their parents was born here or one of their grandparents or grandfathers or settled themselves, so they recognize that this is their home country, then it would be by that very idea of our own, we supported it even though the largest opposition party, that this process should be accelerated. This is how we are going to get into a situation where one of these families and parents is going to apply for a child to attend on equal terms as other children in Serbia will be preschool institutions, and that it will be a barrier for them that they have not yet received citizenship. First of all, you have to specify and see that it is a rapid process for those children, and you will not be able to do it without the support of the Ministry of the Interior, and in that sense we have submitted this amendment to make it a big problem for you, because it really takes so long and because it is necessary because it is the only way that these children can exercise their rights here in Serbia, regardless of which city they attend or want to attend preschool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24991	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24992	Thank you. Article 5 of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Pre-school Education and Education shall be brought into line with the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, adopted at the previous session, and I think it is very important at this time to try to answer one previous question for the National Assembly, which is how the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education System is adopted and to ask this question of the legality of its adoption, namely the question of the need to comply with it, because at the previous session, this law was brought about by suspending the debate in particular at the moment when more than four hours of the amendments remain for discussion. The amendment time that belongs to all applicants of all amendments of all parliamentary groups, therefore both the authorities and the opposition. In this way, it is impossible for applicants of the remaining unsettled amendments to explain the remaining four and a few hours of that amendment. In theory, these amendments could also have been submitted by MPs of the position, so the ruling majority. These amendments were able to make some fundamental corrections to the Law on the founding of the education system and other laws. Unfortunately, these amendments were not discussed and were therefore unlawfully prevented from becoming part of adopted legal solutions, and this seriously marred the dignity of the National Assembly and seriously derivated its legislative role. So, in this respect, the previous issue that must be resolved before further harmonisation with the adopted Law on the basis of the education system has to be answered, because by violating the Rules of Procedure on the National Assembly, when the chairman has self-initiatively declared that time has been spent, although we have all witnessed that on the e-parliament it stands out that there are more than four hours in the debate, raises questions about the legality of the work of this body, and this is a serious violation and dignity of the National Assembly and a threat to the democratic rights of all citizens who have been elected and sent here by the MPs. This is a very important issue that must be insisted on, and it is very important that the media understand that the MPs are simply lawless, self-sufficient, then taken over four hours to discuss and that the debate has been illegally interrupted. (Alexander Martinovic: What is this? Is this an amendment? ) I would also ask the chairman to warn the head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority not to throw it away. The chairman should maintain his integrity and that, without the interference of the head of the largest parliamentary group in the Assembly, he is holding the session on his own, because I am sure that the chairman of the previous session has just succumbed to the pressure of the ruling party and illegally suspended the debate on amendments, which is something that should not be happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24993	My friend Gjuric, now that you've told your three minutes, you haven't said a word about the amendment. (Vladimir Djuric: I explained why we were looking for an erasure. You haven't explained, you've talked about some times, about the heads of parliament, who knows what you're talking about, and then you want to tell us how a dictatorship is being conducted in parliament? (Vladimir Djuric: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24994	I explained the reasons why we proposed the amendment to delete a member of the law that complies with, in our opinion, the illegal law on the basis of the education system, because its adoption violated Article 158(5). The Rules of Procedure, which states that the debate on amendments lasts up to ten hours. Four and a half hours before the end of that time, the debate was terminated. So these are the reasons why we suggested erasing and I explained it in two minutes, on which I have the right to explain in their context the reasons for submitting the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24995	Mr. Gjuric, let me tell you something, you cannot explain the reasons why you submitted the amendment, but you explain the reasons why you submitted the amendment to the bill. You explained that you asked for the bill to be deleted because you think Mr. Martinovic is giving us what to do about the chairmanship and running the session. (Zoran Krasic: No, no. I understand him perfectly. I just don't want some way of running a session to be a dictatorship, because it's not a dictatorship. So he talked for two and a half minutes, and he's allowed two minutes. It was almost three. It wasn't about the subject, it wasn't about the amendment, and it's about the dictatorship again? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24996	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about amendments concerning the legal representative and the claimant of citizenship, as far as I know, and Mr. Minister will say if I'm right. We want to support it, and I, as an applicant of the amendment, will use my two and a few minutes. Mr. Chairman, you certainly know that in this assembly a rule of long ago has been applied, from the yellow times, that no matter how long the exposure takes, whether two seconds or two minutes and 10 seconds, to record two minutes. And I watched to save time, and that's what I said in previous explanations, telling the citizens that I wanted to save time, and I was saving my time. So, those 240 minutes, which they're talking about, according to their rules, we saved Atlagic and I, wanting to cut costs. Since they object, they don't think I'm going to leave this time to explain this amendment to them, so I'm going to use the full two minutes, to use all the time planned for an explanation, so that there won't be any problems, so they don't think that the time I've saved has been stolen from them. So, I welcome the fact that the claimant of citizenship is covered by these changes and additions, so that they too have the right to preschool education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24997	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The word is from a colleague of Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24998	An amendment that we have proposed that both stateless persons and the seeker of citizenship have the right, the introduction and the category of asylum seekers. I'll explain why. Every Serbian government that works strategically on European integration, i.e. changing Serbia in agreement with the EU, which will work to normalise Belgrade and Pristina's relations, will have my public and active support. And this government has done it, not well enough, but it's for criticism, because you have the right to criticise and just when you support it. What the Serbian government has done in the treatment of waves, so refugee rivers are the third additional reason for support, because we are the only country that has solved the refugee crisis from a human rights aspect. That's exactly the reason, because it is an ethical problem whether to bring asylum seekers in. That is exactly why we are introducing this change, because migrants who cross and cross Serbia are not waves, are not one time. The point is that the river is people going through Serbia's territory from the south to the north, that is, as far as we are concerned in EU countries. This is the only reason why we wanted to allow this law and those who are asylum seekers, no matter how small a number, because we know that very few people are seeking asylum in Serbia, an incredibly small number, they do not want to stay in Serbia, they are on their way to other EU countries, but also for that small number, more than to remain recorded that Serbia has solved refugee and migrants' problems from the human rights aspect. Azil is a human right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u24999	Thank you. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted to the same text: together with Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović and Zoran Krasic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Jasmina Nikolic and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25000	Article 6 The draft law shall intervene in Article 15 paragraph 3 of the basic text in accordance with the amendments and additions recently adopted in the National Assembly, which concern the basis of the education and education system, and it shall act quite clearly. But those who were against that bill, I suppose, should be against this bill in this part. I am pleased that in this debate there are many amendments on all sides, and MPs and MPs of the opposition have submitted it and have all submitted it with the aim of correcting the text, we from the opposition to criticise you a little, so those who are on the other hand, and those who are a little critical of you, to influence you to correct this bill. And it is a good debate and it is good that Arsic is leading such a democratic debate to face opinions to help the minister. Mr. Sarčević, when you were doing this bill and those previous proposals, obviously whoever did you help or service, who consulted, as you said, with 22 state institutions, etc., obviously did not consult some elemental things. So, when it comes to employees, there's a law on records in the field of work, where exactly what's being handled, what data is being registered when they're employed. Mr Sarčević, in the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, there is no room for a provision on the use of the seal. That should go to the statutes of preschool. You know, he can't push everything into the legal norm, he just can't. You've been putting it in here. Someone did, I'm not accusing you, but one of these 22 has failed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25001	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25002	Thank you. I want to use my time so there's no confusion, so these guys don't rebel like Greeks in an arrest. Therefore, Article 6 of Article 15(3) shall be deleted. This is in the law of Article 15, these are pre-school education and education programmes, the basic pre-school education and education programme, Article 15. – pre-school education is achieved in accordance with the basics of pre-school education and education programmes. Item 2 – The basics of pre-school education and education programme are adopted in accordance with the law. Item 3 is very important because it is deleted as probably unnecessary. It reads – the basics of pre-school education and education programmes include the basics of the care and training programmes between six months and three years of age, the basics of pre-school education and education programmes for children from three years to school, including the basics of the pre-school prep programme. So that third attitude I read is erased and I think the government was right and the amendment goes that way. We want to support the government we've chosen. I think that nothing should be disputed, as it should not be disputed that I shorten my explanation of the amendments that there is a little more will and more understanding here and in such a way we save some time, and therefore some money to the citizens of Serbia who through taxes and contributions not only pay for preschool education, but pay for the work of this parliament, and I certainly do not want to give my time to those who think that the time of Mr Atlagic and my explanation amendments should belong to them, I want to make the most of that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25003	Thank you. Members of the 7th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and together by Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The word has been made by MP Tomislav LJubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25004	This amendment proposes that Article 7 be deleted. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Preschool Education and Education, because the SRS parliamentary group considers that the proposaler in this article has not made any substantial changes to its proposal. Article 7 provides for amendments and additions to Article 16 of the basic law and, as a whole, does not change anything relevant in the basic law. In an explanation given by the amendment of Article 16 of the basic law, the Proposer himself stated that this was done by harmonising with the new Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and above all in order to comply with the provisions relating to pre-school plans in that section, which states that the pre-school programme contains information on achieving co-operation with the advice of parents and forming a unit of local self-government. Besides, the plans are now called preparation plans. If this bill is adopted, nothing significant will change in preschool education and education. In the SRS' view, a real change in preschool education would mean creating conditions to remove long waiting lists of children for enrolment in preschool institutions, so parents would be spared such trauma. A real change would also represent the possibility of funding teachers for mixed groups of children from the Republic's budget. In this way, the closure of preschool institutions would be avoided, in some of the most common rural areas, and in the event that the local self-government unit does not have the opportunity to finance the work of educators of such groups. Such similar concrete moves should be taken if it truly wants to improve preschool education and education, to help parents of preschool children and children themselves in that age.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25005	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25006	Serbia faces a huge problem of negative natural growth, the problem of moving young people with children, and urgent measures are needed to meet parents and children of preschool age.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25007	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25008	Thank you. As before, this amendment belongs to a group of amendments that I have submitted with my colleagues, which I call a educational amendment. What are the educational amendments? When you have a law whose amendments and additions you have passed, and then you simply have to have several other regulations that are bound by law, inevitably to enter them into the procedure of alteration and supplementation. We have therefore submitted the amendment here so that I can explain the idea they bear, under the so-called educational amendment, and that we consider the text in the previous text of the law better, because all these laws came as a consequence because we changed the law. So it has to go through the Assembly, so it has to. What was our proposal when it came to procedures like this? As you have in the Resolution on the Legislative Activity of the Republic of Serbia, it was adopted unanimously in 2013 in June of the month, that the proposing adopts sublegal acts together with the bill, and that is the only solution that will make it easier for the Government to work, which will make it more understandable to the impact of the law, so I had a proposal that when you adopt amendments and amendments to the laws, from which the inevitable consequences arise, to bring them in immediately and to be part of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. That's what modern parliaments do. I'm more explaining to you why I call these Colloquial amendments educationally than if you're going to keep the existing or put this on. The differences are minimal, indeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25009	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25010	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 7 covers changes in Article 16. Amendments and additions to the law shall be made on Article 16. This is about co-operation of preschool institutions with local self-government, parents, especially parents of children with developmental difficulties. I commend the state for keeping an eye on the number of children who need to enjoy this kind of support and training. Don't let Hetherland happen to you again. I believe this government won't do it. It was the unheard co-operation of the local community of Novi Sad, the province. Where was that Hetherland, Mr. Martinovic? The local community of Vienna or something. It was an outrageous collaboration. Don't let God do it again. Imagine when politicians with special needs take away from children distracted by development just because they have special needs for expensive suits, special needs for jewels, special needs for penthouses, special needs for homes in Vienna, for apartments in Vienna. Imagine Sulejman the Great failed to take Vienna, and Goran Jesic took the narrow centre of Vienna. Two hundred square meters, and that takeover of downtown Vienna forgot to report it. He was supposed to be proud, so he was more successful than Suleiman the Great. He has taken over the centre of Vienna, despite the money of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25011	The word is made by the People's Messenger Gordana Komic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25012	Thank you. Vice-President, you were obliged to, in accordance with Article 107 and Article 27, explain to the MPs who mock the term "persons with special needs" that this is unacceptable. I'll explain. It's not a problem. So, as the speech implies, it is rejected to say to someone that he is a cripple or that you insult him for physical disadvantages if there is any disability, so it is unacceptable to use political metaphors as autistic, because it is an insult to people with autism, and that we are happy to mock, wanting to completely understandably and justifiably criticise those we view as political opponents with the term "persons with special needs", for a number of reasons. First of all, it's about people with developmental disorders, regardless of age, and second of all, it's not about that. Please don't let our joint assembly do this. If we want to demean a political opponent, we do so without influencing the expressions relating to the lives of many people, children and adults, who are all their lives marked by the term “faces with developmental disorders”, all of us, and the rest of us, at least it is not controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25013	I believe, Col. Komic, that counterpart Risticevic had no desire to offend people with a health problem. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25014	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising an article. 103, 108 and 109. Mr. President, I'm fed up with their political activity in other people's accidents, and I'm fed up with a prank, and I've had the biggest ruse here that the Prime Minister had to read what I wrote, that I shouldn't have commended the country that treated the children. I'm not going to put up with this prank, and you're bound to make a warning about this bribery. I used the term "children with developmental difficulties", and for politicians who had abused Heterland, I said "special-needed politicians" and stated that these special needs were penthauses. Is that true? They don't take anything under 100 squares. Does this president of theirs have 300 squares in the pasture? Are those his special needs? Does he have a 10,000-euro suit? Are those his special needs? Does Goran Jesic have an apartment in Vienna? Is there a procedure being conducted because he didn't report it? Did he win the centre of Vienna unlike Suleiman the Great? Are these special needs? I think so. I'm willing to resign if I didn't say what I said I said, take a stenogram. I'm resigning if I haven't called the politicians as special-needed politicians and listed all the penthouses and everything... I can't tell you everything they've abused. I'll resign if I say so. If I'm not, let the lady resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25015	You offered your own, but don't ask others. I noted when my colleague Komic answered that you had no wish to offend anyone. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Jasmina Nikolic and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25016	Here is what is covered by Article 17 concerning the intervention referred to in Article 8. The bill is a good example that half is good and half is bad. Half that's good that's what you're erasing, and the other half that's wrong is what you're adding. Really, Mr. Sarcevic, there's something wrong with this bill when you're criticized by both authority and opposition. You see for yourself, almost every member of the bill at least two MPs from the government have submitted amendments to warn you that something is wrong. Come on, because you're not listening to us from the opposition, it's kind of normal, but if you don't listen to these people in power, you can imagine, that's where they can cut it short, you know. In a moment, 126 gather and you can be resolved. Mr. Sarčević, since this is preschool education, all these programs that are used are intended in some way to encourage something that should ultimately be a word of responsibility, and social responsibility. When they are at home with parents, grandparents, relatives, it is a social environment where they get some habits that may not even have to be socially acceptable and verifiable and necessary for the educational process which is the next cell, or the next stage in their development. Preschool institutions are good from the point of view of this social climate of the child to understand what security means, to understand what society means, to understand what the values of society rewards, which are the disadvantages that society somehow punishes, and all in order to prepare for the child to receive the necessary amount of information, which in life will represent knowledge and acceptance of social values.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25017	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25018	Don't let me say anything to Zoran about what he's asking me. Of course I listen to what the MPs tell me and the opposition and the positions, but I also listen to practitioners. This time we listened to people who work in preschool institutions and we made these changes that are in favour of the program, because this is where the financial plan is put in place on an annual basis like any business year, and it's not followed by some kind of program that's been set since September 1st and on August 31st, so there's been some changes here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25019	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The word is from a colleague of Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25020	The amendment is practically one of those I called Colloquial-experienced. They are not key amendments, nor as an amendment when we propose asylum, when we want to mark the moment in the law when there may be two asylum seekers. This is just a bit of a changed formulation, and we think that our proposed formulation better defines both forms and programs of educational and educational work. In a short 30-second period, I'm sorry that I couldn't make any educational amendment that would concern what I've called preschool education since the third year, unfortunately, but I remain attached to the fact that we desperately need a serious debate not to be preschool, but to know in settlements and with 2,000 people that there's a child who's been going into socialization since the third year. It's a very important thing. I apologize for the depression, but I couldn't do anything except here in terms of education programs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25021	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25022	Short, for good dialogue. I totally understood that, and we've done a lot of things to prepare everything that you're talking about, and we're going to take a lot of account of the adoption of all these laws and programs, the ones that we're doing with the World Bank, which are meant to do so. If you have been watching this article, it aims to throw out various commercial programs, various programs that make some kinds of aggregates in such institutions, and in some ways we commit the institution itself and support it to do all that more than it has ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25023	National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 9th amendment. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25024	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment, we wanted to supplement it in some way and encourage, again in a way, local self-restraint to finance university learning in preschool institutions, because this member is told that the local community can complete the quality of that educational and educational work in preschool by introducing some extracurricular activities, such as both physical and musical and English. It says in that article that it should respect the specificities of the environment. So, if it's a multinational environment that respects and introduces the native language towards the university, but I know from practice that it already exists in some preschool institutions, for example. in Novi Sad, in Kula, in Vrbas, where Russian is nurtured, for example, but that teaching in preschool is not going to be financed. At least we thought that in these preschool institutions, in these municipalities where languages are at least in official use to somehow force this member to fund the teacher-experiencer local community, who will once or twice a week come to encourage that language of national minorities and actually finance it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25025	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozović, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25026	These are educational and education programmes for a special category of children who are in a particular situation, what is said – God forbid someone is in that situation. It's a good thing it exists, and there's been this specificity before, and that's not a problem. You've slightly changed that. In this section you've changed, there's one part that I like, that you put the Ministry's responsibility first, and that's why we've covered it with this amendment. However, I also drew your attention to the debate about the basics of the education and education system. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, every citizen, every child in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, when exercising some right guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and raised to the level of responsibility of the state, all those rights are exercised on every square centimetre of the Republic of Serbia in full scope, in equal terms and through some equality. It's nice of you to do some things here, but the question is, is that possible? You've put your family out here on this shift as a space where these programs can be implemented. But I'm pretty sure you didn't really throw it out, because there's just no other option in some localities, there's no social care facilities for children, no preschool institutions, and there's an obligation for the state to be equal and equal for all children. So we just wanted to point out that Serbia has some depravity, it has its own capillaries system, it's not all the same, to draw attention to you that you have to take care of that part and in a different way to approach local self-government, because at the head of these institutions, what we call kindergartens and preschool institutions, everything and everything is in the leadership frame. As the local government changes, so does the expert, so does the expert, that no one takes care of children and their needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25027	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25028	I agree with Mr. Krasic, but a change has been made here. This section relating to household variants is transferred to a special rule. He doesn't belong here. This is where groups are formed, meaning hospital conditions that go directly from the budget. So now there are some differences that are very important. I would agree with you that the election directors of preschool institutions are now in the domain of the minister of education, so there will be some changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25029	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Jasmina Nikolic. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25030	Thank you. In the debate in principle, the minister and I as representatives of the DJB parliamentary group seem to have agreed that pre-school education and education is very important. We agreed he needed reform. We've heard there's a loan coming that will also help expand the network of facilities. That's not controversial. What is contentious to me is that we did not get a completely new proposal for the whole law, but only amendments and additions of individual provisions that are in line with that roof law that we used to make here in the congregation a month ago. I think this was an opportunity to write clearly which way we intend to go. From the comments on social networks, I can see that it's not clear to people why it's important to include children from the age of three and to further become much bigger in kindergartens than it is today. They think it'll mean that kids go to school. We need a part of education to explain that it's not a school, but that they have to be exposed at that time, when more congestive functions and brain synapses develop as much as possible to stimulate, as stimulating an environment as possible, which the kindergarten certainly provides. Especially for learning a foreign language, it is important to be exposed to it precisely during this period. This does not mean that they should learn irregular verbs, but it means that they should be exposed to the tune of language, to catch accent, to sing in English or in another foreign language, in Russian, does not matter. So we also have to work on education because it's not a childcare service, it's important for the same starting positions as when it's moving to primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25031	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25032	Just to join up with what you said. We simply talked in the first day about three more documents, two of nuclear security, one related to the World Bank's loan, which when it turns into a euro is 47m euros. Here we have three components. So construction, adaptation, the other part of education, the popularization programs of the whole story, and one part smaller is for the service of the people who will work. These days, this story is over and it's going public.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25033	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 12 in Article 23, the word "parents" is replaced by the words "other legislator". I have confirmed this by amendment, and this is about Article 23, pages 1 and 2. – The local self-government unit keeps records and informs the pre-school institution, i.e. the school that implements the pre-school pre-school prep programme and parents, or the second legal representative of the child, this is added, instead of guardians, and the children who have agreed to attend the pre-school prep programme, no later than 1 April of the current year for the following year. So it's about another legal representative. The word "parent" is deleted and a new concept is introduced, which reads "other legal representative" which is a broader legal term. We've already explained in previous cases why it's better than a guardian. Because it's the narrow shape and there's a need for children to have legal counsel to protect their interests in education, in this case in preschool education. A second position – a preschool institution, i.e. a school implementing a preschool preschool programme, is required to inform parents, i.e. the words “other legal representative of a child” and a unit of local self-government about children who have not enrolled, who do not attend regularly or who have stopped attending the preschool prep programme, no later than 15 days from the date of enrolment, i.e. from the day on which the preparatory preschool programme is stopped. I think what the government wrote was worth it and it was supposed to support it, which we have done with our amendment and wanting to have a review of everything we have suggested to be able to monitor the debate more easily. I don't think it's right for us to just sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25035	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Jasmina Nikolic. The word is Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25036	One of the big problems with our preschool education and education system is the fact that we don't have a sufficiently developed network of preschool institutions. Of course, not everything we need can be built overnight, so the solution was required in part to introduce the private sector and private kindergartens into the network of all kindergartens. Of course, when it burns under our feet and we don't have enough money to build all the kindergartens on our own, it's one of the possible solutions. There's only one objection we have to the team about, it's that a good number of these private kindergartens are located in some sort of apartment, in some very strange conditions. We believe that there must be much stricter conditions for private kindergartens, even when it comes to those kindergartens that we will receive in that network that will be paid from the budget, in order for the standard to be equal between national and public kindergartens. In that sense, the question for the legislator – is it recognized as a problem and do we do something, do we have a plan?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25037	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25038	I'm probably expected to solve all the problems backwards, not bid as much. You've been diagnosed with problems, and if you solve them one by one, by inspection, I wouldn't make it in the next 10 years. It's not just about kindergarten, it's about college. So when it was an accreditation, when it was a verification, that's what it used to be called, when I talk about private elementary and high schools, I personally did it 18 times, so I know exactly what we're talking about. Many times when the process is completed, people give themselves the luxury of changing the conditions that were important, so there are not enough frames that are prescribed, so they move from the object that was corresponding to the inadequate, so the condition of the yard needed for the age of children is ignored. When it comes to colleges, we run inspection tests. One who asked for a change in the accreditation of the space without even getting it, so they went for a clean trick, because they think the accreditation committee is still not dealing with it, and everybody washes their hands. You know, there's a lot of holes in the system, I don't think I'm solving them this way one by one. But all the sublegal acts that are being done are designed to regulate all the norms that matter, and the state has the right to check it out again for everyone. Thank you. [[Branka Stamenkovic: How about a replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25039	You have no right to a replica. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25040	Thank you. I wasn't so creative that today I just sit and listen, that Article 13, amendment to Article 13. The proposal for a law which has been passed, in Article 24(1), following the word “parent” is added to the word “concerned” and the words “that is to say, other legal advocates of the child”. In paragraph 2, the word “parents” is replaced by the words “other legal representative of a child”. Why did we support the government's proposal? For the sole reason that the roof law, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, is already regulated, and we have discussed why this broader term than the strict legal concept of “adulter”, “another legal representative”, should stand in this law, and this is related to Article 24, in the first position “parent”, that is, the second legal representative of the child is required to enroll a child in preschool, i.e. school to attend the preparatory preschool programme in accordance with the law. I think this broad term, or other legal representative, certainly gives the breadth and allows no one to avoid that kind of obligation and I believe that the government's proposal is quite right. That's what we supported the proposal from. In the second position, Article 24, which is amended by these amendments and additions, the competent authority of the units of local self-government shall apply for the initiation of an infringement procedure against parents, or another legal representative of a child whose child is not entered in a timely manner, or who does not attend the preparatory pre-school programme, no later than 15 days from the date of notification. I don't know what bothers some colleagues in this, I think this is just fine, that everything is covered. So we wanted to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, of course, we chose here, and the minister here represents this very government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25041	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric, Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25042	Thank you. I understand the problem, to continue the discussion where we left off, I realize that's what's going on. I wanted to give a suggestion as to how it might be possible to solve it. It's all in our best interest to get rid of it. Transparency. There is no capacity for inspection services to deal with such a single phenomenon. When we have individual cases I can, but when something massive is a free inspection, then we have to sort it out in some other way. If we could prescribe something, whether by law, whether by regulation, whether by regulation, that all private kindergartens that receive accreditation are obliged to have an Internet presentation, for example, and that the mandatory elements of that presentation are you, you, and you, how many employees there are. Then you have allies in your parents who will, of course, go see where their child goes to school, so they'll see that maybe those data, which is done there, and then eventually they'll report it to the inspection, and then as soon as you prescribe to the subjects themselves that they have to do something transparently, they'll think about doing something. That's why transparency is one of the main points in the program a lot was in the program. We think it's one of the very effective corrective measures when we don't have enough inspection services capacity, and we have massive violations of some regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25043	Just a minute. Let's see how much time does Vesovic have left? 23 seconds to go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25044	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So why am I against the amendment that my colleague just filed? This is about a preschool child, and I'd like a colleague to explain to me who the other representative is, a legal representative, and if he wasn't a parent or guardian? In the case of a preschool kid who's a second lawman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25045	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25046	Unfortunately, we've got to get back together now to do something. But I think it's as reasonable as changing directors, we don't change them yet, we give everyone a chance, they go into training, they take a license. So, when we do the normative space, the conditions, the personnel, it's like nothing's ever true. It's not that big a deal, and it's not that big of a coincidence. All things remain to be checked, to give everyone a reasonable deadline, to invoke standards, and then to go, really, just to the end. It's no different.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25047	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25048	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. In Article 25(2), the word ‘parent’ is replaced by the words ‘other legal representative of the child’. In Article 25 of the Act amending these amendments and additions, Article 25 reads – the child may be left behind from attending the preparatory preschool programme only in justified cases, the parent or other child representative is obliged to justify the missing child no later than eight days. Last time, we discussed in detail the adoption of laws and discussions on the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, why the term, the legal nature, the "other child advocate" is very important and broader than the concept of "parent", which includes a number of children. Thus, the obligation to have that child educated, in this case to attend preschool. With this in mind, we want to support the government's insistence that this 25th member, which changes only this part of the "other legal representative of the child" enables as many as possible, so that the number of children can attend preschool. A child can be left behind from attending a preschool prep programme only in justified cases and in no other way, and I believe that the government is just about to allow the largest number of children to be covered by preschool education, justifiably changed the word guardian to another legal representative of the child and thus allowed a greater number of children to have preschool education. I don't think that's gonna be a problem. I know what colleagues think when they are against this, however, I firmly believe that it will not happen and that it will not happen in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25049	Thank you. On the 15th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Ružica Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25050	With this amendment, we ask that Article 15 be made. The bill is deleted because the existing solution is good and should exist in the new law. The model of the centre defined by this article improves the work of the preschool institution. It allows for a comprehensive approach to a child with special needs, thus achieving better results in training and education, or the development of the child himself. I will give an example of how education takes place in a preschool group, in a regular and special school, according to current programmes, and what it would look like through the centre model and what results would be achieved by abolishing this centre model. Preschool education and special school education work by forming groups with six, seven children, sometimes more, with whom one IOP-defectologist works. In a regular school in one educational group, there may be up to two children with developmental disorders, who also receive their education and education through IOP. Being taught in such a group is very complicated. If you commit yourself to a child with special needs, or with developmental and disability disorders, the other children suffer, and if you work with other children, that child will be neglected. Due to the lack of expertise, it is impossible to work together with children with developmental disorders, with other children and with gifted children. Through the centre model, children with developmental disorders can exercise their right to education and education in educational groups, in which there would be between six and seven children with whom two educators - defectologists work. The work can be individual, group and frontal, i.e. the work performed in the classroom. Individual approach in working with the child allows the child to be supported by a professional person, defecologist, logod or psychologist, to develop all his potential with respect for the child’s individual needs, while group work in the classroom helps better socialize with peers in the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25051	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25052	No one's going to take it. Here, I give the guarantee. Since we had a model center, there's a model facility in the system law. This was a good example, but we extended it to elementary school, high school and all levels to academic education. Well, since those solutions exist, they're covered at all levels, then we've only transformed this into what might have been better done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25053	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as before, we wanted this amendment to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System was introduced instead of the centre model by the institution, so that since it is a roof law, even though I am as a farmer who reads the laws realized that when something is covered by the roof law, then other laws that assist the roof law should be aligned with that law and therefore the model centre, or the Government has proposed, and we have also strengthened the amendment, that Article 29, which covers the model centre, is deleted. For our viewers to know, Article 29 reads – a preschool institution can acquire the status of the centre model if: 1) took part in a scientific and research project where innovations have been introduced in achieving educational practice, or a new model of pre-school education programme has been developed; 2) there are human and programme conditions for organising training and professional training of educators and professional associates. The next position – a high school institution or research organisation, which is the project manager, gives an opinion on the acquisition of the status of the model of the innovation centre, i.e. a model for a period of five years. The last position – closer to the conditions on how to work and finance the centre model is prescribed by the minister. So we won't have what I read as a model center anymore, but the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System will get us a model institution, which is also the same, so there's no need for Article 29 to stand in this law. Therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of 29th is proposed to delete, which I support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25055	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25056	One more thing that I think I need to talk more about and think about changing when it comes to preschool institutions, these are the criteria for enrolling a child in kindergarten. Since we don't have enough preschool facilities, we have regular waiting lists and that all children who want to go to kindergarten can't be enrolled in kindergarten. According to current criteria, the advantage is given to children whose parents are employed. I think it's completely upside down logic, which sends out the wrong logic. We send a message – kindergartens are a childcare service, and we kill ourselves here for four days to explain, and the bill promoter agrees, that this early development, from the third year on, is very important for education. We have to, it seems to me, stop sending that wrong message to our parents. It is the children of non-working parents who have a greater need to go to kindergarten, because a parent who doesn't work doesn't have enough money to buy toys that will stimulate a child to develop brain synapses, but in kindergarten, that child will be able to have such a stimulating environment. Parents who do this can afford to afford their children at home, but they don't have to send a child to kindergarten. Of course, I'm not saying that it is now necessary to prohibit the children of the parents from going to kindergarten, but that we should equalise these criteria and that the criterion is not parent employment, but others, until we build a wide enough network of preschool institutions to cover all children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25057	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25058	Ladies and gentlemen, unlike these colleagues who would do anything for free to broadcast their rights unlimitedly, they don't know who's going to pay for it. They say -- we don't want agriculture, we don't want work, we don't want dual education, we want a virtual economy, so the virtual economy and the fog can't live. Therefore, Article 30 is amended by Article 16 of this proposal to amend and supplement. Article 30 reads – educational work with children is organised in educational groups, and educational groups can be cleared for six months to three years and kindergarten groups for an adult period of three years until school. Educational groups can be formed for children of the same age or different age. Because of the viewers, not because of those who are making noises, to read – the number of children enrolled in the educational group of the same age is: from six months to one year seven, from one year to two years 12, from two to three years 16, from three to four years 20. The change applies to children from four years to five and a half years, not to school leaving – 24, and from five and a half years to school 26. As unnecessarily deleted - the number of children in the preschool prep group is 26. I think these groups and the number of children in groups are perfectly fine and I want to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this regard. I know all this has to be paid. I know it has to be paid for the money. I know that money is a means of exchange of goods and services, that money is made, that it can't live off the man in charge, that it has to live off the money that's earned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25059	You're bringing the end, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25060	That is why I support the government of the Republic of Serbia on the matter of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25061	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. I like the MPs very much when they speak for two minutes and twenty seconds and don't make a problem, and then they earn when someone in two minutes and ten seconds extends their discussion. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25062	This amendment requires the removal of Article 17. The bill, because the existing legal solution is simpler and easier to apply. This article defines how to provide additional support to children with special needs, then the number of educational children in the group, the transition of children from the development group to the educational group, which is possible on the basis of an inclusive education team proposal. The inclusion of children with special needs in regular education in our schools is done in such a way that ordinary teachers, teachers and teachers are teaching, and a defector should be involved, precisely because of the quality of teaching that needs to be provided and the results that are intended to be achieved. In order for the inclusion to work properly, two educators per group should be provided, then education is necessary both children and educators. As a graduate surfologist, I will try to explain to you once what it looks like in practice and what all the difficulties parents face and how much time it is precious for children of this age is lost. If a pediatrician assesses a child’s development problem, it should refer parents to professional evaluations in defectologists, logos and psychologists and then propose further individual treatment, inclusion in a particular preschool institution, depending on the degree and type of individual child’s needs. In order to achieve the best possible results in working with children with special needs, adequate support should be provided to the child, first of all involving early interventions, individual work with the child, in order to integrate what is more into the social environment in the first seven years of life. In preschool groups there is also a great help and support for the child who are personal escorts, who in collaboration with the educator train the child to develop everyday skills, of course, in line with the child’s individual abilities and needs. That makes it better and more confident.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25063	You're bringing an end to it, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25064	Here, I'm done. Just one more sentence. It is also very important to cooperate with parents, i.e. with the whole family, advisory work by experts, so that the child and at home with parents, with access and respect for daily rhythm, can develop his capacities better.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25065	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25066	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 17 refers to support for children from sensitive social groups. I regret that last time there was a mistake and that my colleague was deliberately misheard. So, Article 34. – a child who is in need of additional support in education and education due to social deprivation, developmental disturbances, disability and other reasons, preschool institutions provide for the removal of physical and communication barriers, i.e. to adapt and, if necessary, ensure the creation, adoption and realization of individual education, plan (IOP 1), in accordance with the law. A preschool institution enrolled in a child from a sensitive social group may determine the need to provide additional educational, health or social support to a child. An initiative to initiate a child's needs assessment procedure for additional support by an inter-resor committee may be initiated by a parent, i.e. another legal representative of a child or pre-school institution, with the consent of a parent, or another legal representative. This, second legislator, I must repeat that we have already been through the Law on Fundamentals of Education and Education and that this is a broader legal concept because a parent can be prevented, and parents and guardians do not have to be the sole recipients of the right. So you can mandate if you're abroad to be a legal representative, to be able to enroll a child, etc., it's purely done by colleagues who didn't understand why a legal representative was introduced. In this regard, in one educational group there may be up to two children with developmental and disability disorders. The number of children in the educational group established by this law is reduced by 3.5 children under Article 3, who exercise the right to additional support in the educational group in addition to the individualisation plan, and the individual educational plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25067	Thank you. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25068	Thank you. At first, I must express regret that we have spent a vast majority of our time on only one bill, however important and controversial the law on dual education, because the remaining educational laws, including the Law on Preschool Education and Education, concern a significantly greater number of Serbian citizens. However, we have had a long and diversified debate here that often did not go beyond the preschool level, for example, about who had a higher average in college, while those who are the biggest advocates of dual education deny the importance of formal education and acquired diplomas. If the average in college were the main criterion for performing the highest function in the country, then a large number of citizens who had a higher average than the current head of state, including my smallness, would at the very least qualify to be in that place. When it comes to preschool education, a significant number of world research shows the social benefits of this level of education, including better success in further education, better paid jobs and fewer conflicts with the law. Since a Finnish educational model is often mentioned here, I would take advantage of the opportunity to draw attention to another country, Estonia, whose students in the last PISA test, which measures scientific, mathematical and functional literacy, have found themselves in all three categories in the world, first, second and third place. The Estonians themselves cite quality preschool education as one of the main causes of this success, especially learning Estonian. For the reason that a system is necessary to contribute to quality overall development and the well-being of preschool children in accordance with their needs, this amendment has been proposed to introduce an obligation, instead of merely the possibility, that a preschool institution that enrols a child from a sensitive social group determines the need to provide additional educational, health or social support to a child. At the same time, care should also be taken of the needs of gifted children who should have the same right to individual work and support in progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25069	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25070	The members of both 106 and 107 could now be a good basis for us to ask ourselves a few questions here. You, Mr. Chairman, I don't suppose you've heard that, and I've heard that. The question has been raised as to how we led this debate, not to show enough interest in what we represent, is that, as we say, I think some pointless things have been said, the moment we deal with the question of success in college and reading someone's grades. Right? That's probably what someone said to take advantage of the opportunity to boast that he had a great success in his studies. All the honour of it, just one note and I do not ask to vote on it – we have discussed here the grades that the candidates for the President of the Republic have achieved at the university. Why wasn't the candidate for the President of the Republic if he was so good, important, or if he's even good and important now? On the other hand, why not comment on his candidate's assessment in the previous elections for the President of the Republic? Maybe because there's nothing there, nothing to praise, and he's aware there's nothing to praise, so he doesn't seem to want to defend his candidate for President of the Republic. It will be said that these things that are listed in that index are even less important and less valuable than the unimportant and worthless results in those elections in 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25071	Since you do not want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day, I do not feel obliged to give you an explanation for your advertising of the Rules of Procedure. (Jovan Jovanovic: Replica. Mr. Jovanovic, on what basis? As far as I know, you didn't mention it, and it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not regular work. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25072	Thank you. It's about who should cover the cost of preschool work. The Legislative Group Enough is of the opinion that, apart from the need to expand the network of institutions so that they can receive all children from the age of three to school, we also believe that the only fair system is for pre-school education to be fully covered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The current solution is that 80% of these costs are covered by the budget of local self-government. Belgrade can afford that. A lot of local self-governments can't. It would be more responsible if it were transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget. We calculated, of course, that's doable. There were questions here who would pay for it, when we're against the dual and when we don't give more honest masters and craftsmen to make money to fund pre-school institutions. Now, let me tell you right now, our vision is not that workers who work in factories and who have low wages pay these costs. At Belgrade level, for example. all of this can be financed, if tax is charged on undeveloped city building land, which has been kidnapped in robbery privatisations which have enormous value and have never been charged as much as necessary, nor taxed as necessary. Of these tycoons and looting privatizers, we intend to finance projects like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25073	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25074	Thank you. And why not from the bankruptcy mob to collect? The bankruptcy directors and tycoons come to him as well. They can't live without each other. How many bankruptcys were suspicious? What happened to those companies that Miskovic was pushing into bankruptcy, so... Well, it couldn't have done that without the bankruptcy directors. Now they say we won't pay for it from the factory. The workers have low wages, we're not going to finance it from the factory, we're going to finance it by collecting taxes. Look out, really. Do any of them even know what GDP is? All they know is what's bankruptcy, kidnapping, hollowing into empty combinations. They're just about combinations. Well, you can't live off the fog, not tinyly chopped or milled through the grate. Without the factory and without the goods, you can't drive a car. You can't drive a tractor and plow if you don't have a tractor. You can't watch, you can't eat an empty plate. You can look at him as an auxiliary, glass ball or something. You can look at an empty plate and a glass ball, but you can't eat it. Money is a means to exchange goods. We must work, manual work, all the honor of those who contribute to our work having better design, to be scientifically supported, etc. It's an honor to the architects, but someone's got to do it. The apartment must be made, the suit must be sewn. He's got shoes to stick to. You must have a goldsmith, a shoemaker, you must have a tailor. Without that, you can't tax. You can broadcast as much money as you have, you can have a better company in this country, it can last while there's somewhere to steal. There's nothing after that. You can't live by selling imaginations and illusions and by the way, in debt to the country. Well, the main product is long. It has its limits. It has its end, and it's over, no matter what the tycoons and the bankruptcy managers think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25075	Thank you. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As for the amendment and addition of the Pre-school Education and Education Act, Mr. Minister, they are mostly related and specific and define the language in which pre-school courses are implemented, records of various types of pre-school institutions, support of children from sensitive groups, which is certainly very important, and somehow some continent and tasks that teachers and professional associates and associates will have within the pre-school institution. We have responded here by amendment to article 19, which changes both the name and content of Article 38 of the basic law, where, besides the teaching tasks, the tasks of the educators of nurses, a defectologist of the educators is introduced. So we have some three categories of educators and all three categories of educators here basically have a task. They are said to ensure their competences respecting the principles of pre-school education, achieving the goals of pre-school education and education, achieving and improving educational work. By adding that they are obliged to carry out all these goals according to IOP (individual educational programme), and we have responded to the amendment to attitude 2) that a teacher, a nurse, given the specific knowledge of a medical worker, is the first to follow, among other things, the health condition of a child, and besides the fact that it stands to care for and improve the care of the child and the educational work, we have made little provision for standing – and to care for the child's health care. To be the first person to monitor the child’s health and to cooperate with an associate, or expert associate, to whom article 43 also describes care for the preventive health care of children. So, just to connect these two employees who care for children’s health care directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25077	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25078	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, wanting to support the government's insistence in this bill, I have submitted this amendment, which I will try to explain, is about changes in article 38, unless I am wrong and it is very important that Article 38 of the Law – the task of educators is to ensure that their competences are respected by the principles of preschool education and education, the achievement of the objectives of pre-school education and education, the achievement and improvement of educational work. Article 2 – The task of the educator's nurse is to ensure that the principles of pre-school education and education are respected, to achieve the goals of pre-school education and education in achieving and improving care and educational work. The third all is new, these first two attitudes change the former attitude, the third attitude is new, very important because of children with developmental difficulties – the task of educator defectologists is to ensure their competences to achieve the goals and principles of pre-school education in accordance with IOP and the educational work programme. This third attitude is new and it is used by defecologists to enlarge this member and we get a promotion of preschool education, given that the government and the state give considerable resources to pay attention to, unlike some of the predecessors who saw children with developmental difficulties as only an opportunity to measure a shed there, to instruct some money that has been embezzled. The government, unlike the authorities who ruled Serbia until 2012, unfortunately until 2016 in Vojvodina, the government, in a very different way, has properly regulated the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25079	Thank you. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25080	The amendment is to Article 20. The draft law in Article 39(1) and (2) shall be amended and read as follows: Point 1) with children aged six months to two years, a person who has a secondary education, a nurse – a teacher, and with children aged two to three years, a person who has a secondary education, a nurse – a teacher and a person who has a suitable higher education, or a suitable higher education in first-degree studies (basic vocational studies or specialist vocational studies) who has been trained to work with children of a clear age – an educator. Point 2) with children aged from three years to school departure, a person who has an adequate higher education, i.e. adequate higher education in first-degree studies of primary vocational studies, primary academic studies or specialist vocational studies, or in studies of the second-degree master of academic studies, specialist academic studies or master of vocational studies, i.e. at basic studies of at least four years, according to regulations governing higher education until 10 September 2005 – educator, in accordance with the law. It's a member that the government has proposed and we support. Regardless of this misdemeanour, we want to commend the government for the roof law that regulates education. Oh, God, if he had come into effect earlier, we wouldn't have this kind of rude specimen that they're getting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25081	Thank you. National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted the 20th amendment together. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25082	Thank you. First, I'd like to thank you for your initiative for some future candidacy, but what I was about to say is that the average in college, the average height can't be a criterion for performing any public function. As far as this amendment is concerned, I would link the next two amendments to Articles 22 and 24, to save time, because they come down to the same. It is to ensure that relevant jobs, including those of an expert associate, can be performed by professional specialists who have acquired a second degree of education according to the rules governing higher education by 29 September of this year, as this right has been taken away from them by a recently adopted law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25083	Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25084	Thank you. I appreciate the impatience of my colleagues, i.e. Tossing. It's about Article 21. The government suggested, and we amended, too. The 41st is changed and it defines the tasks and tasks of an expert associate, which is very important, and since it is preschool education and education, I am under obligation, purely because of the viewers to read, to know what the member is, because they are very interested in this kind of education. Article 41 is also amended as follows: the tasks of an expert associate are to ensure that the principles and objectives of pre-school education and education are respected; that advisory work and other forms of work contribute to the improvement of educational work; that it provides professional support to children, parents, or their legal representatives, educators, directors in matters of importance for education and education; that is, to cooperate with parents, i.e. other legal agents, other staff in institutions, as well as representatives of competent institutions and different organisations, representing the interests of children and activities in general. So it's a member of the 21st that's been amended by Article 41 of the basic law. I think that by defining the tasks and tasks of an expert associate, we are improving pre-school education and education, and with this in connection, we as MPs are obliged to support the government in the part in which we, as MPs, think they are worthy of this support, so before we gave the government our majority and our votes mandate to the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25085	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25086	Thank you. Article 22 defines who can do the work of professional associates, and I think that's very important. Article 22 of this Bill of Law amending and supplementing the law amends Article 42 of the Law. This article 42, because of the viewers and those who are interested in preschool education, I will certainly read it, also wanting this debate to remain in this peaceful course, that my political opponents always say that I am the reason for some argument, that I will not be the reason for it, I will almost, in fact, read Article 22 of the Law amending the Amendments and Supplements Act, which amends Article 42. Article 42 reads – professional associate's jobs can be performed by a person with a suitable higher education in second-degree studies (master of academic studies, specialist academic studies or master of professional studies), that is, my fellow farmers, they know these studies and all, i.e. basic studies for at least four years under the regulations governing higher education until 10 September 2005, in accordance with the law. I think it is our obligation, as MPs, to present legal solutions to our viewers who are interested in this kind of education and in this regard, as someone who voted in favour of the election of this government, and the team and the selection of the minister who is present here, I think we are bound by this amendment, and I want to do so, to support the government to adopt these laws on complete education and education and to arrange this area. Sometimes it's more important to edit than to rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25087	The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25088	As for the former Article 20, the question here is why are there no specialist studies as qualifications for the work of an expert associate? It's a very simple question, and I'd like the minister to hear the answer, why aren't they covered by this calling list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25089	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25090	When we spoke in principle, that's when we gave the explanation. The difference is in the number of SBB points, which they make during their studies, but the new ones they're writing should take care of it. All those found accept and confess as they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25091	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MPs together Aleksandar Seselj and Zoran Krasic, together by Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojičić, together with Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25092	This amendment concerns Article 23. The bill, which is actually a member of the 43rd basic text. Otherwise, the member refers to associates, but the change being made is not about associates and other associates, but about the names of these other programmes, they are now different training programmes under the preschool programme. It's probably in line with this Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and you probably have the basis to make this change, but we also need to provide amendments for a while. I am simply surprised that there are MPs here who have submitted more amendments themselves than all the other MPs and you, Minister, have not adopted any amendments to those MPs, and yet they vote for you. You were elected minister, and you refused them amendments? That's not correct. Politically, it's not correct. When people make such an effort to improve your text, return your love and adopt some amendment. Don't be such a stone heart, because the next time people don't write amendments, they're going to improve your texts, but they're going to go to the opposition side where we're writing amendments to violate your laws, and I don't want you to be disfigured by the law, I want that law to be good. You know what it's like in Serbia, there are elections in an hour, so you're going to the former representatives of the regime. In this building are all former representatives of the regime, starting with this behind you being nodded. Well, we tried to help you. It is not an epochal change if the name of the document is changed, but we respect the need to and the name to agree with something previously changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25093	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25094	Thank you, Chairman. We added an amendment to point out that preschool education is the right of every child. I think the minister must agree, because Serbian citizens agree greatly that each preschool child must attend preschool education. The big mistake that exists in our country is that they are kindergartens and preschool institutions are childcare institutions. It's a big mistake and a very wrong attitude because children's first knowledge is just being acquired in preschool institutions. We point out and believe that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide funds, all financial resources needed to allow all children in Serbia to attend pre-school institutions. According to the data we found, only 48% of children, so about 84 000 of the 177,000 children attend preschools. That's awful bad. What's wrong with that? Psychologists know very well that cognitive development of children is moving and that it is experiencing its maximum for about a third year. So unless the child attends a preschool facility, it automatically loses chances for equal further development, for equal starting chances later in life. This is particularly dangerous because of vulnerable groups. We have this information that only 20% of children from the most endangered social and social groups have access to kindergarten. In order to reduce every social and other segregation among children in our country, we insist and propose that the state of Serbia bear all the costs of preschool education, because it is crucial that all children have equal chances of equal development and later equal chances of success in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25095	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25096	Time of authorized representative. So I'm not sure if the promoters have now mixed up the amendments, because I think that this article was specifically "expected," and that explanation to someone else, but if I'm already talking about it, I think they're predicting that some computers are being bought this time for kids going to preschool, so they're just telling us how much it costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25097	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25098	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System is free of charge. Whether I misunderstood or not, and what I said hello back then, it seemed to me, it was that schools in the country were being prepared and so the rural children had what they didn't have so far, so those who wanted to broadcast rights that no one could pay should know. Also, regarding Article 23, which amends Article 43, it is said: Jobs that improve care, nutrition, preventive, health and social protection at a preschool facility are done by co-workers. A preschool institution that makes special specialised programmes, different programmes, it now stands, and forms within the preschool programme, can have other associates, with the consent of the founders. The founder can be local self-government, but also the Republic. When the Republic of Serbia is the founder of a pre-school institution, the ministry gives consent to the 2nd article's position. Associates are probably psychologists, logos, and other professionals. I think that social workers can also do the job of associates and it is good that the founder decides on it, because he has to take care of the funds collected and how much he can not only broadcast the rights, but also how much he can pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25099	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25100	Dear Ministers, this Article 23 speaks of associates who are employed in pre-school institutions, who care about certain things that are specific to child care and among other things are said to be jobs that improve care and nutrition, preventive, health and social protection, co-workers in pre-school institutions. We have suggested that, in addition to these categories that are defined, it should be inserted that jobs that concern the development of motor and physical skills and physical education of children are also carried out by associates, because it is obvious that all research shows that our children have been so obsessed with computers for the past twenty years, sitting and very little physical activities, that it is necessary to provide for and co-workers in preschool institutions that will deal with these particular problems, i.e. by developing motor and physical skills in children. Statistics say that up to 50% of preschool children are overweight, and even higher percentages, in some institutions up to 70% of children who have absolutely no motor skills, can't run, can't play with the ball. So we're a sports nation. We need to develop and create such a system that will raise our children in the right sense that they are making healthy progress, that they live healthy, that they develop healthy. It is really necessary to establish a system that will, from preschool institutions, further through primary education, establish such a program where children will go, where someone will follow them as they grow, how they develop, whether they have motor skills, whether their spine is guilty or not, whether they can run, whether they are overweight. You know, when the seventh, eighth grade comes, it can't be fixed anymore. Even statistics say that in some elementary schools over 90% you have children with the wrong spine. The best way to solve this is to work systematically from preschools and I don't think it's really going to be too much of a cost for either the state or the institutions if one associate is established or how many children in preschool institutions are going to deal with these problems. So I ask you to simply understand the reasons and I think it is really necessary in a systematic way to approach this problem and solve it for the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25101	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25102	My colleague, for your sakes and for the public, so we don't stay out of sight. In the teaching teams, you also have pedagogies who are involved in sports, you also have nutritionists who eat and probably that preschool is not a place where the child is overgrown, where someone will not be involved in motorics, before education should apply to that home and parents, so it's already contained, and it's not just happened here to the group. You've seen previous members talk about various programs and where commercial programs are just being kicked out that are offered to kindergartens and schools under different codes, and sports and everything, so that's already organized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25103	National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25104	Thank you. Article 45 of the basic law, Article 42 of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, so I will read to the viewers what this article 45 will say after, hopefully, the adoptions that will take place on the day of the vote. The work of a co-worker, he defines which tasks a associate can perform, the work of an associate can perform, and that: under one, the tasks of improving social protection, a person who has a suitable higher education in studies of the second degree, master of academic studies, specialist academic studies or master of vocational studies, or basic studies for at least four years, according to the regulations governing higher education until 10 September 2005 in accordance with the law; under two, studies against preventive health care, a person who has an adequate education in first-degree studies, primary vocational studies, primary academic studies or specialist vocational studies, i.e. studies of three years of age or higher education in health professions in accordance with the law, under three, training activities, planning, organisation of nutrition - a person who has appropriate education in the first-level studies, or in the first-level studies. It is my duty to accept this kind of solution proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25105	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25106	The minister just answered the question raised by this amendment, so I have no further comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25107	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25108	So this article is related to the previous article and the amendment is consistent with what I said before, and it is specified for the development of motor and physical skills and physical education in children in preschool institutions that persons who have the right profession, who are in this matter and who need to have professional education should be dealt with. To continue the story from a moment ago. I know that in certain preschool institutions there are associates who are involved in monitoring the development of motor and physical skills in children, taking them outside, organising the game, etc., but that is not the case in all preschools, on the contrary, only large cities. There is that in Nis, there is in Belgrade, probably in Novi Sad, but in smaller places it is not the case. So 90% of preschool institutions in Serbia have no expert associate of this kind who cares about how children will develop, play in kindergartens, whether they will develop a sense of sport, of running, of physical activity. That's why I think it's really necessary for such associates to predict that they exist necessarily in kindergartens. It doesn't have to be that I don't know what number, it's enough to have one co-worker in kindergarten, but it would also significantly improve children's health and, of course, improve their physical and physical skills, so if you want, both mental and sports skills. You probably know, especially your associates who deal specifically with this problem, that, for example, in Scandinavia, it's a case that children who go to kindergartens, over 70% of the time they spend there, spend in nature. There was almost one video on social networks that shows the teachers taking the kids out of kindergarten, bringing them to their parents, they take them right outside. It's snow, they lead them to the lake. The kids strip, they go into that lake, they bathe, they go back. It is unimaginable in Serbia, but that is why in these countries it is literally five days, three or four days it is mandatory to spend all day in nature. They take them to the farm, they go to the mountain, they go to the lakes, they run, they play. So, most of the time they're supposed to spend in kindergarten, they don't spend in indoors, they spend outside. The point of the story is to give children, i.e. such programs, to have children spend as much time out there as possible, to develop healthy lifestyles, to develop awareness and environmentalism, to preserve nature, and of course to grow healthy. These jobs should be done in this way by those people who are professional, above all by people who have completed colleges in the field of sports and physical culture, but of course those in the field of health care. I think this country should give so much to children, because if you teach them from childhood to preschool, through primary schools, then you have healthy and capable people later in life. It is very good that from the fifth grade, compulsory physical education has been introduced, but simply, you do not have a professional man who will do so during the first period of primary education from first to fifth grade. Nothing is expensive, nor too difficult to have a professor of physical education who will only do so in primary school. So one professor in all classes from first to fifth. This will significantly improve and improve the health status of our children and develop with them some other abilities that children obviously need to be pointed out later and as normal people, to grow up healthy and to have certain abilities toward sport. I think this is necessary. I'm going to use this remaining time to point to another anomaly in primary and secondary education, which is field trips. You have a terrible problem that when excursions and excursions come, parents get hold of their head from the price of these excursions. There is an amendment that I wrote to predict that excursions are organised thematically, to be related to what children learn, it is one thing, and the other, to avoid those tourist excursions where children go, first of all, to Greece, to various discotheques, and thus, as part of these excursions, they do not go to Zeitinlik, Krf, or Kajmachalan, or to shopping. I think it really went to another extreme. It is also unusual for children to pay class elders and those taking them to these daily trips ranging from 30 euros to 40 euros a day. Well, you see, for example, a high school student travels for six days, at 40 euros, 250 euros should be given for the whole period. For example, there was almost a field trip to a high school in Nis, where children spent six days, three days in Vienna, and one day in Budapest and Bratislava. It cost 300 euros, and they were in a hotel 40km from Vienna, which sneezes, in which moisture is in principle cannot cost more than 20 euros. The agencies earned twenty thousand euros, teachers and teachers received 50, 60, 70,000 money for those five days, and the question is how many parents can pay? I think the system must be established that excursions are mandatory and that they are a mandatory part of the work process, that those who run them get a regular daily living as well as anyone who works in a state body, not that they have over what the agencies pay them. There's already a way for corruption. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25109	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25110	Dear Mr. Lapčevic, I'd like to start high school, take a field trip, and go back to kindergarten, if you don't mind. A week ago, a team was formed by a minister who received an official assignment to arrange the area of all student trips, from recreational classes, excursions, excursions and excursions outside Serbia. Reunize Serbia according to these models and will be offered in a different way, and many of these solutions that you have said are also contained. So there will be absolute order in this regard both in terms of finance and in terms of the use of the resources of our technological surplus teachers for the production of programs, implementation and precisely technological surpluses in the field of sport that will be on these animation processes and that story will be related to another team. We've done about 40 special teams, from nutrition, from sports, all of what you're talking about, and, here, for decades, no one's dealt with it seriously, but we have serious complaints from various ministers who know what's important or irrelevant right now, but they could have done it before. So the public will be very familiar with the new concept about excursions. When it comes to this first thing you were talking about, you know how, then we'd be in big trouble if you hired so many sports teachers at all preschools right now. That's what teachers want. It used to be called lower class, but then you get into another kind of problem. What are you going to write in your worksheet to that teacher who took it, as well as that teacher who taught it in college, he's trained for it. He has a classy type of process of work, no subject. Certainly mentors, who can be provided, as well as doctors, with them we now have different contracts, and with local self-government will perform additional training and some demonstration activities. If we relax them in every sense, then we enter the structure of work and budget, but that will also be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25111	Thank you. (Milan Lapčević: Replica. You have no basis for replica, Mr. Lapčević. You just got the answer to the question. I think you've had enough time to explain the reasons why you think it's necessary to accept the amendment, and then you get the answer. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25112	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 158(4) – each applicant of the amendment has the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular, on this basis, cannot be longer than six hours. Paragraph 3 states that the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups for the overall search in particular, have an additional time of 15 minutes, which does not enter into this. Also, the total time of the search in particular is set aside for the parliamentary groups. MP groups have some time compared to the number of MPs they have. We have 600 minutes to argue, two minutes each, right? Before fellow Lapcevic started talking, we had 28 minutes left in the electronic system. He talked for seven minutes, all seven minutes was downloaded into the electronic system from this amount and these figures. I understand that when he spends two minutes he can spend more time on a parliamentary group or a time authorized, but that time can't be removed from these 600 minutes planned. What are you doing? How do you count this? Come on, we'll accept your rules, just transparently explain what you're doing, so we know how much time we have left. Ever since the search started, we've been asking questions about how to get that data, no one to explain it to us. Explain to the citizens of Serbia and they have the right to know. We here, after all, represent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25113	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. I don't think I've hurt Article 158. Everything is transparent and public and very precise and clearly defined by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 158, paragraph 8, says - Members of the Parliament, who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement, determine a maximum of three participants in the search for details that they have the right to speak for only one to five minutes, as Mr Lapcevic, as an independent MP and used it. (Branka Stamenkovic: But not that you refuse 600 minutes.) ) Please, colleague Stamenkovic, it is not up to me to measure the time, but rather to hold a session and not to hold a dialogue with you, but, I repeat, to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which I will continue to do. Thank you. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25114	Thank you. The question has been asked a moment ago – what will our proposal be to pay for preschool education and education for children from three years to go to school to be absolutely free and accessible to children, from which will be paid all toys and devices, the type of pills and computers, which should be in those kindergartens to provide a sufficiently stimulating environment for children in this intense early development to have the most stimulating development of higher cognitive functions? I feel the need and duty, after all, to answer. If we hadn’t donated land for “Belgrade on Water” If the irresponsible power in our name hadn't donated it, we could have financed it, we could have built a good number of kindergartens out of that money, but now what's there is. Given our gift, what we can do is tax it the way it's worth. Of that money and the money that will come from taxing the undeveloped city building land, which has been kidnapped in mass robbery privatisations, we will finance everything. This will be an opportunity for us to show already in Belgrade, and after the next elections, since local self-government currently has jurisdiction over kindergartens and covers the cost of stay of children in pre-school institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25115	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment. Here you go. Branka Stamenkovic throws. ) Twenty-three seconds of colleagues Orlic has. If you want to be precise, public, transparent, please take care. Comrade Orlic, please, you have 23 seconds per amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25116	I call on him not to adopt. First, because they can't explain what they're going to do to children from six months to one year of computers. Two, because they can't say how much it costs together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25117	You see, very precise and clear in 10 seconds. Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Branka Stamenkovic: There are 14 seconds left. There are 14 more seconds, of course, and they'll take advantage of it. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 25th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25118	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm a little happy. It's a good thing that a colleague didn't propose to share, alongside laptops, computers, children of a year, two days, national maps and glass balls. So I'm happy she stopped on pills, computers and laptops. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there's no free lunch, and there's nothing you can tax with that. So, in order to collect the tax, you have to collect it from some capital, some work, some product. You can't live in a state that will only tax. I agree with the previous speaker that all those who have contributed to the wild, predatory grabbing they call privatisation should be taxed. It wasn't just the government and the former regime. That's what bankruptcy managers used to do. Some of them came to us as an American product, an import product, which had messed up there, so he came here, so they think they can rob them unpunished, and then you're pushing for taxation. What? The bankruptcy managers and tycoons are the only ones, but since they can't live off fog, they have to live off production. They say -- we don't want production, we don't want dual education, we don't want workers, we don't want physical work, we don't want product, we just want to tax. You can only tax something that stands. Money is a means to exchange goods and should be seen as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25119	I thank my colleague Rističević. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25120	Once again, let's repeat what the DJB is up for when it comes to preschool education and education. Under number one, to change the term "preschool education and education" to "preschool education and education", so that we don't educate the general public that kindergartens are not childcare services, but that children from the third year to school leave are the period of their fastest early development, when they are most receptive to learning the easiest. That's when they don't learn, they just adopt. If you expose a child of three or four years of age to an environment where a foreign language is spoken, he will not learn that language, he will adopt it and be bilingual. So it's such a powerful period, so many children in that period are easily and quickly received from the environment of stimulant and all of this helps develop their brain synapses, it's necessary that all children are covered by preschool education and education as early as possible since the third year. In order for us to do so, our preschool education and education must become completely free of charge, because it is the only way to make it available to everyone. It can't depend on the financial strength of the parents. Moreover, it is children of poorer parents who need these stimulating environments in which their early development will be encouraged, so that at the beginning of primary school they will be in the same starting positions with other children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25121	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25122	For me, the term "research and education" and "education and education" is the exact same thing. If this is traditional in us and the first education is said in this age, I would even change if other adults were called “adolescence and education, ” because if someone is rude, there is nothing you can teach him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25123	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to add children's care before education and education, given that it's almost babies. Now, when it comes to education, if it had been in the first place in years past, today we would have had about the adoption of amendments and the law far easier work, if it had been compulsory, I wouldn't have lived here to be spit in parliament, I wouldn't have lived to be wanted around the building to beat me, I wouldn't have experienced the previous speaker to be pinched if there had been an education. It's a big question if there was an education, but they want everything to be free. Unfortunately, there's no free lunch, I have to do it again. We have to work, to make money, we have to be valuable and committed to our work, in the factory, in the field, in the plowshare, with the string, each in their own way, because if we do that, then we won't have just free textbooks, we won't have just free computers. We'll also have free trips to the sea, excursions, etc., because someone's earned it before. In order to spend something, to drink water, you must have water in a glass, you cannot drink out of an empty glass. You can't get out of an empty register, which was emptied in a criminal enterprise by bankruptcy managers and tycoons and a party of the former regime, you can't finance from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25125	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vojislav Vujic, Jelena Vujic Obradovic, Marijan Jevdzic, Djordje Kosanić and Petar Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25126	I thank the chairman. I don't know if the minister read a publication published by UNICEF, which is called "investment in early childhood education in children in Serbia". I think it's a 2010 publication. Then you realize for yourself why we insist on preschool education being free. They repeat once again, preschool education, which all children should attend, challenges and condition that later all children have equal chances. Unfortunately, in our country it is not such a case and are precisely the most vulnerable social groups in the most difficult situation. That's why the state has to bear all the costs of preschool education. Children who come from the lowest layers, or their parents, do not have enough material resources to enroll them in preschool institutions at all. We as a state and you as a minister in charge of the things that we do today are the responsible and most responsible in essence to give children equal chances and to give children from the most vulnerable groups the opportunity to attend preschool education. So, before you even approach the adoption of this law, I urge you once again, as I called on you yesterday, to make a fundamental reform of preschool education, which will later condition the reform of primary school and high school, because as long as we have the situation as it is today, that children are primarily unequal and that their education and their future depend on their parents' financial situation, we cannot be human society, just society, we cannot give equal chances for all children in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25127	Thank you. A colleague of Orlic's, after the amendment. Here you go. You have 14 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25128	Not to adopt, ladies and gentlemen, one, they've mixed up the amendment, two, they haven't told us about the computers yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25129	Five seconds, thank you. You have nine more seconds of your colleague Orlic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25130	Thank you. There are strange doctors here, especially those who doctored creativity, they're very creative. When we were opposition we were really creative, these were created somewhere outside, very strange doctors there. They only talk about preschool education. I have to say again, first of all -- that's what happens when someone graduates from some college he graduated from, who he was, Cedomir Jovanovic. There were really weird plants in that college -- ficus. You're a ficus and you graduate, and you're a doctor. It's about care, education, then education, and this article I'm talking about right now is about punishment. If one prevents a child from being educated in the language in which the law provides, he will be punished by an appropriate fine. I would like on the subject of education that some doctors and some MPs, who are obviously raising, education is suspicious, very suspicious, as if it were in the evening school with dinner. Em's education to me something suspicious, calling me might exist, but knowledge, especially if it's applicable, hardly exists, because someone who would have a proper calling that would confirm knowledge like this wouldn't say something, and he would know that there's no free lunch, that money is earned, that money is not shared by the sale of fog, but that it's earned in the field, by the stream, by the plow. You don't make money with bankruptcy, that's how money is spent, people are ruined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25131	Thank you. The 27th Amendment with corrections was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Mihajlovic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment with corrections was brought together by MPs Sreto Peric and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to article 27 is actually a member of the 53rd basic law. That member speaks of criminal provisions. The first part provides for the punishment of a pre-school institution or school that organises the process in pre-school teaching. In principle, we haven't intervened on this part, but we think that the intended punishment could be less than it's supposed to be, because it's pointless to punish an institution in this amount. We also believe in the second part that a responsible person in preschool or in a school who organises a preschool preparation process should be increased from 100 to 150 000. In fact, we want to make a responsible person more responsible, that is, to have the punishment threatened and seriously, so that if it is broken to be spoken. This reduces the range between at least certain fines and the most determined fines. It reduces the possibility of corruption, leaving little space for those who need to apply it to have some range and a free grade in this. It's a bit interesting about the way the bill's proposer has said why the amendment is not accepted, so he says that the solution is proposed in the proposal more comprehensively and that by law, I now don't know which law, the intended solution is okay. I mean, Ministers, if you could accept this, don't change the concept of the law, it stays in everything you've predicted, but it would introduce more responsibility and responsibility for the responsible person of the institution here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25133	Thank you. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25134	We are nearing the end of this debate in detail. There is very little time left, so let's recap the preschool education as to what a group of MPs thought was most important, when it comes to preschool institutions. First of all, to expand the network of preschool institutions so that they can cover a much larger number of children, to aim to cover all children from the age of 3 to school, so that all children have an equally accessible stimulative environment in the early development period, while more cognitive functions are being developed, so that at the beginning of primary school they are not in the same starting positions, not that certain children who did not go to kindergarten, whose parents did not have to pay for kindergarten costs, are already at the beginning of education and life behind. Another way to achieve this equality of education opportunities for all children is to make sure that preschool education and education or education and education is completely free of charge, to be paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Currently, the cost of covering 80% of these costs is on local self-government. In Belgrade, it is quite easy for the City of Belgrade to fully assume all the costs of pre-school education and after the next elections in Belgrade, when we get citizens' trust, we will try to make sure that this is the way it is and that the kindergarten approach is equal and free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25135	Comrade Eagle, nine seconds, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25136	Thank you. Since the proponent talks about children of three years and has written of six months, as far as he knows what he has suggested, so will Belgrade. So he doesn't adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25137	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 28th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25138	When a six-month-old baby asks for laptop cannons, computers, it's expected to search for spaceships. I keep saying it's about care, education, education. Those who've been brought up twice over, obviously don't want to hear that word. The word obliges that a colleague can't spit, can't swear, can't be shredded on benches, can't be entered with the orchestra "mild deaf" into the National Assembly. Given that there is education and education under this law, I believe that some new generations will not fly into this assembly like that nervous representative of the bencedin, with the various chateaus and guitars and that they will not play here as if they were at a bar party, as if they were competing for the song "Eurovision", that this orchestra "mild deaf" will no longer be here, that some will come finely raised, that they will also be educated, that they will be treated, but apparently our colleagues think that something can be free of charge without being previously earned. I'm in favour of education and raising money for field production, at the factory. All of this is done by capitalist countries that have a strong social background. They start with all their work and earning the opportunity, and then when they create that cake, that GDP, at a certain level, when they earn, then they broadcast the rights they can pay. Apparently, some people think the other way around, and they're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25139	Thank you. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Marina Ristic and Nemanja Sarovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25140	Mr. Milicevic, I really don't get it. The bill promoter didn't accept this amendment or did he accept the amendment? It says here you didn't accept the amendment. In your explanation, you say you agree. We're in a fight over a deadline. You say in two years from the entry into force, you'll bring in sublaws. I suggested six months, you say you'll try to do it, not within two years, but something shorter. Now you've found an answer here. Why does this matter to me? Do you represent the foreign exchange "faster, stronger, better" or not? You quickly made these bill proposals. You've done a lot since the Ministry finally took jurisdiction and I expect it to be better in six months, not two years. Either you accepted that second exchange "this term of office will be used for Serbia to reach the EU door", which is about two years from now, according to that 2016 promise, but good. I'm extremely glad you didn't accept this amendment, and we've made it so clear and loud that we've said who is where, and not like that, I'm handling the amendments, you agree, you don't accept them, I don't support this government, and you reject the amendments of those who support you. According to what you're doing, your man must not support it. You're the one who refuses his amendments immediately. Or I don't know, you're taking some other criteria. You think it's an exclusive right for good only on one side. So adopt those amendments, not like this to confuse us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25141	Thank you. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25142	Thank you, Chairman. So, we talked about how important it is that in basic education we respect everything that is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia itself. So, we have advocated, and this is how we wanted to fix this law, for the simple reason that, not only there are shortcomings, but primary education is primarily not free in Serbia. Just because it says it is doesn't mean it is in reality. If you take an example that over half the salary is needed to buy one set of textbooks along with pillows and all things that are necessary for a child to start the 1st of September school year, then how a family will endure if he has two, three, and more children. So, free textbooks mean today that the state stands behind children, stands behind parents and helps them really get education and be free. If we do not believe in that way that we can fix the matter, I think that this attitude of the Republic of Serbia will definitely affect that many children will either run out of funds or their parents will become additionally poor. What is very important is that we also take care of the Cyrillic and Latin letters, since the Serbian language equally recognises both, and that is simply not the case with what is happening today in basic education. If you say English, German, Russian, French or any other language has to be exclusively... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25143	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that time has been spent to explain the amendments, as provided for in Article 158. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, the time, when it comes to amendment promoters. The time remaining for the parliamentary groups, if the parliamentary groups have time and did not spend during the debate, remains the time of the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, if the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups did not spend that time during the debate so far. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet, Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF BASAL EDUCATION AND DESCRIPTION You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament to the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Comrade Stamenkovic, you have the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25144	Thank you. Unfortunately, again in a strange way, this amendment time was calculated and there was not much change in time left, in general, of the amendment time to discuss the proposal for a law on basics and on secondary education and education. So, I can only briefly say that, first of all, when it comes to primary school education, the MP group has done enough to advocate that the purchase costs of textbooks are fully covered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so that parents are spared that terrible financial blow every September, especially if they have more than one child. Furthermore, we advocate the root reform of the way in which the teaching process is carried out. We don't have a child in the center of the system and we don't need a child. We have teachers at the center of the system. Kids have too many cases, first of all because we can't fire teachers and throw them out on the street, because they're parents. If this country were responsible, it would have to come up with a social programme with the help of reducing the number of classes in school, teachers who are left out of work, taking care of it in some other way. One way is to reduce the maximum number of children per class from 33 to 20. This would preserve a certain number of jobs, and we could group the items, because children are overloaded, the material is too large and it is all to preserve jobs within the primary school system, while ignoring the fact that the whole system should revolve around the child, not the preservation of social peace. This social peace should be preserved in another way, not this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25145	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25146	I must once again remind the public that this house has passed a very high-quality law, it is called the Law on the founding of a system of education and education, where the child is centered. Where, for the first time in a decade, it was put in what was the subject, what was the program and the burden of the students was first. There are other measures and ways to provide a good social programme. We've secured 1,200 severances. We've made sure that at the age of 65, you have to retire and that young people can get a chance. I need a lot of time to say what measures are covered, but for the first time, he's really a kid in a program not only in elementary schools but also in high school. Election packages are being introduced, so no one chooses a child's name anymore than a child's right to choose. So you're going to see really, very recently, that this is exactly what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-03-0.u25147	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The MPs together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Mr. Jasmina Nikolic and together Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šukić submitted the 2nd amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 3rd amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, mr. Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radet. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 12th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 12th amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 15th amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 16th amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 16th Amendment were together submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 19th amendment. The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Members of the National Assembly of Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 21st amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the National Assembly Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 21 amendments. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Zoran Krasic. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 21st amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the National Assembly of Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together. Members of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojičić and together Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordža Vukadinović. Article 22 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 161. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 23rd amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted to the 24th amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 25th amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet. Members of the National Assembly Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 26 amendments. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 27th amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 27th amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Amendments of the People's MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic submitted together. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandra Belacic. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 29th amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 30th amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Tomislav LJubenović and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 30th amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 31st amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 31st amendment. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 31st Amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted together to the 32nd amendment. Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Mr. Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Mr. Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 35th amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 36th amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted the amendments together. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 37th amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted together to the 38th amendment. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 39th amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 39th amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. National MP Dr Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted to the 40th amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 41st amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 41st amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 41st amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 42nd amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic and Zoran Krasic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted the amendments together. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 43rd amendment. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 43rd amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 45th amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 45th amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Article 45 of the amendment is based on Article 161. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 45th amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 46th amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted the amendments together. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Diana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Article 46 of the amendment is based on Article 161. The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Committee on Technological Development and Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 47th amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 47th amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, submitted together to the 48th amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 49th amendment. Parliamentarians Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 49th amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted the 49th amendment together. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 49th amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 51st amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 51st amendment. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić The National MPs Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojičić submitted together. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 53rd amendment. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 53rd amendment. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted to the 54th amendment. Article 54 of the amendment is based on Article 161. The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Committee on Technological Development and Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 54th amendment. The National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted to the 54th amendment. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 55th amendment. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 57th amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted together to the 57th amendment. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 58th amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted the amendments together. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the amendment together. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 59th amendment. The amendment, which was added by a new member of 59, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is in accordance with Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment adding a new member of 59, together submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djorđa Vukadinovic. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on (Article 163(4)). Rules of Procedure. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 60th amendment. At the 60th Amendment in the same text, the MPs together Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted together to the 60th amendment. At the 61st Amendment in the same text, the MPs together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Mr. Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 61st amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 61st amendment. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 63rd amendment. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 63rd amendment. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic. The 64th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 65th amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 66th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović and Radoslav Milojic submitted the amendments together. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 67th amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 67th amendment. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 161. Parliamentarian's Rules of Procedure Marijan Rističević withdrew amendments to Articles 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 35, 37, 39, 40,41, 43, 45, 47, 49, 51, 53 at the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Middle Education and Education on 24 October 2017, which were introduced under number 016102865-17. We move to the fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on secondary education and training. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Obera on constitutional issues and legislation and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out the Main Search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law on details. Parliamentarians Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Vesna Marjanovic. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 4th Amendment with the correction was brought together by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Vesna Marjanovic. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. On the 6th Amendment in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radeta, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic, together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Vesna Marjanovic. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Rade together submitted the 7th amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Chobraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Vesna Marjanovic. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Chobraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Vesna Marjanovic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Chobraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanović. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 10th amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cobraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Chobraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cobraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Chobraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Verica Radet and Nikola Savic. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Sreto Peric. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević, and Dejan Šulkic. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Zoran Krasic. The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The MPs together Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanović submitted to the 21st amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamnekovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovski, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovski, Dr Ana Stevanovic, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The 23rd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovski, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted to the 24th amendment. The 24th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. On the 24th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanović submitted. The National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 24th amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Mr. Jasmina Nikolic. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Vjerica Radeta. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Mr. Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted to the 31st amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Vjerica Radet. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 36th amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic and Zoran Krasic. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 37th amendment. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 39th amendment. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted to the 40th amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 41st amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 42nd amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 46th amendment. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The MPs together Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanović submitted to the 47th amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 47th amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 48th amendment. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. Parliamentarians Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 49th amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted together to the 49th amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 50th amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr. Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Mr. Jasmina Nikolic submitted the same text. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet. The amendment proposed to add new members of 51a and 51b together was submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is in accordance with Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected as an incomplete amendment adding new members of 51a and 51b, together submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivic, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on (Article 163(4)). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted together to the 53rd amendment. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic submitted to the 54th amendment. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic and Vesna Marjanovic. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djuric and Mr Jasmina Nikolic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I am taking the opportunity, of course, to thank Minister Sarčević and his associates for their participation in the debate. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 8 November 2017, starting at 10.00 a.m., as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Thank you.
