ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14462	Thank you. I didn't think I'd get my word first. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, my questions have been referred to several organ institutions, etc., as I ask what question I will speak about who, of course, is all about the elections held on April 2nd and what actually happened after the elections in RIK, and part of what we had to see in the media, especially those citizens who followed strange events that took place at RIK sessions and in a strange way how RIK dealt with complaints coming from election headquarters of various candidates, not just candidates supported by DS. The electoral headquarters of Saša Jankovic, supported by the DS, was except that during the day of the elections he saw many irregularities in the way of pressure on citizens, harassment, calls, threats, blackmail, etc., except that we had already seen before the elections that people employed in the state administration or public enterprises had problems and feared to preserve their jobs, since they were under constant threat of losing their jobs if they did not support Alexander Vukic, we also saw a large number of irregularities on the day of the election, of course it was about buying votes. We filed complaints, filed criminal charges. However, as if we weren't ready for what will happen after the job is closed, and I must admit, again, you managed to surprise us, although in the previous elections you have already shown that you are ready for anything. Obviously, Alexander Vukic's only goal was not to have another round, so after the election, after handing over the electoral material to RIK, there seems to me to be, until now, an unprecedented theft of votes, so I have a few questions about that. In fact, several days after the elections, Sasa Jankovic's election headquarters required an insight into the election material according to its legal options. During this insight, with the random opening of only 25 sacks of electoral material, our controllers found that there were as many as 926 votes for Alexander Vukic on the logs attached to those bags than in those bags physically, i.e. someone was changing the records and adding more votes to Alexander Vukic than he had actually won. After we made this public, Aleksandar Vukic, I assume, informed the media about it, and after two days as the outgoing prime minister, coming to the office of RIK President, ordered that votes from only two bags that were unprotected for two days were counted there, when it was seen that only four votes were stolen. What the citizens had at the time had a chance to see is something very strange, as my question applies, and you presidents can answer it too – the box has an entry that is about 10 centimeters in size. I assume that the A4-shaped sheet is unswrought in that box, so somehow, unswrought ballots have shown up on which the number six is rounded, the vote for Alexander Vukic, so I ask the president to explain to me – how can the A4 be inserted into a 10-centimeter-size hatch, and not to bend it? The second question is for the Prime Minister himself, the president, the president of RIK, I don't know what function he's in, since he said he would rather die than steal one vote, and that his victory is as pure as a tear, what about what we're going to do now, according to his four-vote claims, is it just four voices of stealing, as some of your coalition partners have said, or is it still not about winning pure tears?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14464	Thank you very much. The word is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14465	I thought I'd be denied talking like I did last night. I was up, but a representative of the Progressive Party pushed me out and left me without the right to speak. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic throws. ) You writing to Tomislav Nikolic's doctoral dissertation now has little to do with it. I ask the question to the Serbian government and Prime Minister Vukic – why has no law yet been passed to confirm the agreement, why has no agreement yet been reached that would give the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis the same privileges as the NATO Pact members received under the IPA agreement? Last year, the NATO Pact granted the IPA Ratification Act freedom of movement, immunity to all NATO members, diplomatic privileges under the Vienna Convention, and even agreed exchanges of confidential information and equipment. I expect that NATO, within this IPA agreement, will also give you confidential information about what is coming to you in the coming months, in which way it will force you into order, in which way it will teach you wit and how it will make you serve it faithfully and resolutely, what it was like when you came to power in 2012. There's no game with the NATO Pact. Instead of giving the same status to the Serbian-Russian Centre, a humanitarian centre in Nis, for five years you have been distracting and disapprovaling Russian officials. You are under pressure from the West, not only to seduce sanctions against Russia, but also to not grant diplomatic privileges that I have listed to representatives of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre. It's NATO here to destroy our country, to tear us apart, to share us, to carry out subversive activities, including the ultimate naked military occupation, which is also in play, and on the other hand, the Russians are here to help in trouble with severe injuries, climate disasters, fires, earthquakes and everything else. Is that a principled policy? It is no longer a policy of sitting on two chairs, and on the one hand you sit on one chair, and on the other hand, as it is called, the Maya - a tripod, you know that when you were thrown off a tripod, and the rest of you were on two feet to sit down, well, that's what this balanced policy of yours looks like to you. I demand that the diplomatic status of all members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis be regulated as soon as possible. Five minutes? Another minute? Now, that's what I'm giving you, and again some forwarder will have something important and smart to say, so there's that minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14466	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14467	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, here, on Sunday, three days from today ends a full year after the case of the destruction of buildings in downtown Belgrade. I ask the question of Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and the Higher Prosecutor's Office – until after a year it arrived with the determination of who is responsible for the destruction of buildings in downtown Belgrade? It is precedentd in organised societies to cover the nights of construction machines and buffers, some citizens of the Republic of Serbia tear down houses, business facilities, which were owned by them. So for a year we've been listening to announcements, the prime minister's various promises that some complete idiots are responsible, that these are the people from the top of the Belgrade government, and now as an epilogue and first verdict, we have the ruling of the Court of Justice in Belgrade, in which it was said that the company "The Millennium Team" participated in the destruction. That is not enough, it is necessary to find out who is the employer and who ordered that it or any other enterprise or any other individual do one such act, because in that period the suspended state of Serbia is in one part of the territory. Police have not responded to calls from citizens who have complained, people are bound and constitutional rights are the most gravely threatened by all those citizens who were at that time in buildings or by buildings, who are bound and removed from their facilities to tear down, and that territory has given to some investors, we do not know which, mentioned to the Arabs, but others are mentioned to create a residential-business facility. The second question I also refer to Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, among other things, is for today's and yesterday's agenda, ratification of the Security Agreement with other countries, which is the case of an assassination attempt, as we heard, on Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic in Jajinci. It's an event that's been announced in a violent fashion, an event that was mentioned by Minister Stefanovic himself and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, that a certain amount of ammunition and weapons was found near the prime minister's house, and that, I quote, the M80 rocket launcher, known as the mill, 100 pieces of gun and ammunition, 762, four hand grenades, four or five bullets, etc. Minister Alexander Vulin then said, quote – one thing is for sure, one of the Wolfs wanted to kill, whether Andreja or Alexander, but one of them wanted to kill. I don't believe it's a coincidence that 97 murderers are found in an area where there's an oatmeal, grenades, ammunition, and all of it is found in the most ideal place, where people pass through and where they can't defend themselves. So, I'm asking the competent institutions, the interior minister, the prosecutor's office -- how far did it come with an investigation into the assassination attempt, as it is said here, of one of the Vukic brothers?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14470	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14471	Thank you. I have a few questions and a word of advice, or an appeal. The first question concerns the Prime Minister and Director of the Office...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14472	Excuse me, MP, you have no authority to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14473	In front of the parliamentary group, I don't see what he's like...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14474	Yes, but, as you know, since you've been an MP for a year, you have to have authority if you're not president or deputy. You have no authority, I apologize. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14475	Dear fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, God helps everyone. It is my duty today to ask four questions that are very disturbing to the public in Serbia and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia would have to answer to them immediately. The first question is for the minister of education, Mr. Sarcevic, who has seriously upset all the family people in Serbia with the latest educational package sent to schools in Serbia, with the goal of popularising homosexuality, sexual violence and anything else that is imposed on our children, without the question of parents. So, questions are simple – who made this educational package, who sent this to schools in the middle of the school year, who was doing pilot projects in our kindergartens and schools without the consent of parents with our children, whether this was done with the consent of the minister or, which would be even worse, without the consent of the minister, since the minister of these days withdrew these educational packages and made it clear that they were against our culture and traditions, which Dver and the entire Serbian family public have been saying weeks ago. We are also interested in what are the professional qualifications of Dr Ljiljana Bogovac and Dusica Popadić, author of these sex-educated packages and who will be responsible for this sexual violence against our children and parents? What, therefore, you, gentlemen of government, are piloting, designing and experimenting with our children and parents, because, in fact, you are Soros in Serbia. If you are looking for Soroš at the protests, you will find him in your Ministry of Education making such educational packages without asking your parents. From 2000 to today Soros is at the Ministry of Education, including in your government. The second issue is to continue the opening of the Dverlix affair and to reveal the truth about the political mafia that is ruling Serbia. Namely, questions for Minister Nelu Kuburovic: has an investigation been completed on the privatisation of the Saba-based "Save" privatised by "Luki Komerc" from the Caves, the firm Milorad Pantic, a functionator of the Serbian Progressive Party? How did Pantic buy a company for 20 million dinars when its value was estimated at 1.3m euros? How many workers were fired after the privatisation of “Save”? Is it true that “Sava” capital has been transferred to “Luki Komertz” on the basis of fictitious debts? Was Milorad Pantic a close associate of another party before, and today a senior SNS official? Was Milorad Pantic arrested on 8 January 2015 for illegal resales of 1,338 tonnes of tobacco, i.e. obtaining an anti-law benefit of over 490 million dinars and damage to Serbia's budget of 139 million dinars? As far as this investigation is concerned, why is Pantic, a senior SNS official, still at large and manages SNS in the Caves?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14479	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14480	Thank you. My question for today is to address the Minister of Police, which concerns the state of emergency that is being introduced in Novi Pazar, past all procedures, during each football game. This emergency is first created through the police, i.e. Armed special police forces, which under full combat equipment block the entire city at the time of football matches, restricting the freedom of movement of all citizens of New Pazar, limiting the smooth functioning of the city, schools, and even the home of health that is almost always blocked when a football game takes place. That is why I ask the Minister of Police – who aims to make this situation in Novi Pazar permanent, regular and normal? The state of emergency in Novi Pazar is also created through the so-called organized cheerleading groups that are being targeted in Novi Pazar to openly threaten Bosniaks and all Sandzak citizens, to provoke, to threaten to make New Pazar a new Vukovar and a new Srebrenica from Sjenica? Unfortunately, all the institutions and media in Serbia turn their heads to the other side, turn their heads against the expanse of war criminals, who are almost regularly held at the stadium in Novi Pazar, and all of this is under police protection and with the lack of consent of the institutions, in the first row of the judiciary, and, as I said, the media. That's how it happened last Thursday, when there was a game between New Pazar and Partizan. Once again, the streets were blocked, the city was paralyzed, schools were closed that were near the stadium and the approaches to the health home were blocked, and the citizens of Novi Pazar were denied the basic constitutional right – the right to freedom of movement. Along the magistrate's route, these armed police units were deployed, securing the passage of the so-called. The fans, who used to throw glass bottles at houses and shoot passersby who lived there and pass by. There were mothers with children among them. What did the police do here? Did she arrest one of those savages? Did she bring her in? Did she listen, and did she record any of those bad guys? The police not only protected these savages, but to make evil bigger, the police brutally attacked, beaten and brought in people who went outside their houses to do the job that the police were tasked with, to protect their houses, their property and their families. We've been asking for years back what is the role of so many disproportionate police officers on the streets of New Market at the time of the football game? Whether their goal is to prevent an incident or to cause incidents, allowing uninterrupted so-called. To terrorize Bosniaks, but all citizens of the New Market? I'm asking if any of these officers who have reportedly violated all their powers and jurisdiction have been prosecuted and when will they be completed? It's extremely important for the public to know these things. In the end, I want to take this opportunity and draw attention to the decision of the New Market City Assembly, which points out, among other things, that any restriction on the freedom of movement of citizens, changes in traffic regimes and other changes resulting from the organisation of certain events, in the first part of those high-risk events, must be previously agreed with local self-government and citizens informed on time. I urge all institutions, primarily the MUP, to respect this decision by legitimate representatives of the citizens of Novi Pazar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14481	Is anyone else answering to ask a question? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to take my turn. The first question is for the prosecution and for the MUP, what they have done or will do about taking over the municipality of Pećinci, a building, on March 28th this year, when a group calling itself Dvori violently took over the municipality of Pecinci. In doing so, she asked the porters, the disabled, to bow before the MPs, and this group, followed by the Cacca committees, as seen in the photograph, harassed the secretary, 50 of them, the secretary of the municipality that ended up in the ER. So it's violent behavior in the group. Peace has been violated. The city hall is occupied. They refused to leave the building after hours at 3:30 and stayed there until 4:00. My question for the D.A.'s office and the police is, what have they done about it? The second question is the spread of religious impatience, and I would say religious hatred. The president of the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina announced in the media and on social networks before the Big Friday – a happy big duck to all who celebrate. Well, some people find it funny, but I don't. Nedim Sejdinovic, leader of the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina and one of the protest organisers in Novi Sad, per me. It's about a group that, in its day, made Jesus Christ gay. So, it's about people who permanently insult religious feelings of believers, and I'm asking a question about this -- what is going to be done about causing religious hatred for this?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14486	Thank you. The word is Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14487	The first question goes to the President of the Assembly. Today, we speak under Article 287, and in that article, the final position says that the persons to whom we ask the question, or we ask the notice, are obliged to make the request for information, or an explanation of the delivery to the Members in writing within 15 days. So this is the institution of asking questions, i.e. asking for notice from MPs, and it is a duty to do so within 15 days of the question being asked. I have 17 questions here which the MPs of the "Enough" Movement have asked the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, and nine questions asked by the president of the Assembly. These are the questions spoken here from the National Assembly's pay phone, which has been drawn up and delivered to the presidents of the Assembly and to the Prime Minister. We have not received an answer to these questions, no response by the Prime Minister and no written response by the President of the Assembly. To repeat, Article 287 states that persons are obliged to request a written notice to the MP within 15 days. So it's not an oral response, it's a written answer. The question for the president of the National Assembly is why is he in violation of the Rules of Procedure and why does he not answer the questions asked? The question is also why is it not sanctioned by the Prime Minister who ignores the questions of MPs in the Assembly and does not answer them? This disregard for the rules, ignoring the law, procedures and all the rules and taking these young people to the streets, who seek respect for the rules, are seeking the rule of law. It is your right to answer as you think it should, but you have no right to ignore the demands of the MPs, you have no right to ignore the laws. The next question goes to the RIK president. The presidential elections took place on April 2nd, and 18 days later, we do not have preliminary results by polling stations, so other presidential candidates, like all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, cannot see what are the official preliminary results of the elections in their polling post. Other candidates have been prevented from comparing the results with the results they have from their controllers at polling stations, so we can't even do an analysis of the election results. Why is this happening? The question for the RIK president is why are they hiding the election results? We asked RIK in writing to deliver the results of the election. However, these results have not been delivered and the ruling majority simply ignores these requirements in RIK and rejects this simple proposal to deliver election results to polling stations. This can only mean that RIK is hiding something from citizens and other participants in the election process. Also, another question for the RIK president. The "Enough" movement has seen the election material, following elections held in Sjenica and Novi Pazar, found 20 people, names and last names, which are said to have voted, and at the time they were not in Serbia at all, but were on their way out of the country. So it's obvious that someone else signed up for them and it turned out like they voted, 20 of them. RIK has done nothing on this issue and, even worse than that, it prevents us from taking a look at this election material. Since it is imperative that there be no doubt about the election result, it is unclear why the RIK is hiding this information and is therefore not responding to the clear information that we have provided them with. Then, why was the "Enough" Movement rejected to allow all citizens to see whether they had voted on the internet? This would prevent these abuses and in fact a mechanism of theft suspected of happening in these elections. We expect a written response from both the presidents of the Assembly and the president of the RIK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14489	Thank you. You'll get the answer. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14490	I'm asking the Justice Department a question. I guess as of today, former Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic has repeatedly violated the Law on the Protection of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia over the past two years by analysing the political situation in Serbia and making political statements, although in Article 10a of the Law on the Protector of the Republic of Serbia, I quote: "The Protector of Citizens cannot make statements of political nature". It's a finished quote. Jankovic repeatedly criticised the government of the Republic of Serbia and its president, Aleksandar Vukic, on several occasions. So on July 31st 2016, he openly attacked Alexander Vukic because, I quote, "until then he had not formed the Government of the Republic of Serbia", although the legal deadline for its formation had not expired, there was still one month left. Also, Jankovic unlawfully attacked the government of the Republic of Serbia in an interview he gave on December 9, 2016, although he knows well that he is not legally authorized to control the work of the Assembly, the president of the Republic, the government, the Constitutional Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Even for this reason, he was publicly rebuked by his party DS counterpart Nebojsa Krstic, who said, "it is not good that Sasa Jankovic, who controls the work of the state authorities, does not respect and violate the law." Jankovic was running for president of the Republic of Serbia. However, the candidate for the president of the state, among others, must possess exceptional moral values, such as truthfulness, fairness, complicity, diligence and a strong sense of love for the country, such as Alexander Vukic. We all know that Sasa Jankovic does not have such quality, especially if she is referring to the "Pistol" affair in which Predrag Gojkovic allegedly committed suicide. With this in mind, I ask the following questions – is it true that in 1993, police found that Jankovic had a gun without permission? Furthermore, is it true that this gun in 1993 committed suicide in Jankovic's apartment in New Belgrade? Did Sasa Jankovic ever answer for illegal weapons holding? Is it true that no gunpowder was found on the hands of the late Gojkovic, which means there was no suicide? Is it true that the paraffin gloves found that no gunpowder was found on the hands of Sasa Misic and Gjorge Grubačić? Is it true that Sasa Jankovic had gunpowder on his hands? Why did Sasa Jankovic, at the 1993 hearing, say he did not enter the room where Gojkovic was lying dead, and on 20 April 2015, he claimed that he had been petrified by the dead? Why did Sasa Jankovic keep the gun illegal and insecure? Is it true that Father Jankovic on the day of the Loznica suicide in Belgrade brought in an armed list issued only the day before his suicide? Be careful, is it true that one of the three men from Jankovic's apartment who later participated in the murder of Predrag Gojkovic took part in the murder of Željko Raznatovic Arkan and what does that tell us, ladies and gentlemen? When Sasa Jankovic spoke the truth, when he said ten years ago that Gojkovic was his best friend or at the end of April 2015 when he said they were not close? All this tells us that Jankovic is a very dangerous man. The former regime has appointed him as the Protector of Citizens, conditioning him, in my opinion, not to point to their thieving and crime, and they are not asking his question of responsibility in the "Pistol" affair. So you should not be surprised that Jankovic lied that Aleksandar Vukic stole 319,000 votes in the presidential election, because the claim comes from a man who lies, and the one who steals and kills, says in a textbook of logic from high school. Thank the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for making it impossible for Sasa Jankovic, a suspected murderer, to head the country's president, with their vote for Alexander Vukic. I appeal to all presidential candidates to show a minimum of civilization culture and democratic responsibility and congratulate Alexander Vukic on his victory, because if one of them had won Alexander Vukic would have been the first to congratulate them, for himself, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, for the country he loves above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14491	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice and an explanation, in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? (No) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jasmina Karanac, Vladimir Jovanovic, Milena Bicanin and Ivan Kostic. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 12 of the agenda. Do any of the other authorised presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14492	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, I see you're the only one, but there will be talks about protecting the human environment, and I'm so glad you're here, honourable Members of Parliament, I'd like to talk about the points of the agenda that we have today. The session looks like a technical session. It's about agreements, it's about protocols, it's about some contracts. However, when we see the topics that agreements have, when we see that this is about protecting the human environment, when it comes to education, when it comes to social security, when it comes to the wateriness of the river, these are issues that are very important to the citizens of Serbia. That's why I think we should pay attention to these questions and talk about it. It's about interstate agreements. It's very important to us, very important. This means that Serbia is not a closed country. Serbia is an open country, ready to accept all good ideas, all that is good from the rest of the world, and also to offer the world what it has. I'm saying this because I'm going to pay a lot of attention to protecting people's environments. I don't think there's much talk here in the congregation about protecting the human environment. When we say that, we usually talk about one fact -- to protect our environment requires too much funding, they are often handled in sum of ten billion euros, which is indeed one very large sum for this country. But if we're talking about means, if we're talking about how to change things in the country, then I accept one attitude called step by step. We're talking about Kyoto protocol and the greenhouse effect. We know very well what climate change means, which means the greenhouse effect, which means reducing greenhouse gases. Likewise, when a man reads all these explanations that are in this law, he is simply appalled. Since those who are the richest, those who have the largest industrial production are non-shalantly referring to the fact that the environment in this way is highly polluted, that the environment becomes such that it is very difficult to live and that it can survive in these situations. That is why I am very pleased that Serbia is one of the countries that has accepted in every respect and in 2008 and accepts the Kyoto protocol now. True, it's sad to say that we don't have a quantification because we're not an industrial country, we're not a country that has great production that can make gases go into the atmosphere, that they're such that they pollute the human environment. However, just accepting Kyoto protocol means that in Serbia there is awareness of the protection of the human environment. That's what I want to stress, and that's why I support this decision that we're one of the 18 countries that are so far, that we're going to be their 19th country to ratify this agreement and where we're going to move on. In this context, we also have talks about forests, that is, a point that says that we join a European group of countries that will exchange experiences about shaming, protecting forests and all that is going on. It is well known that there is not enough forest in this country, that Vojvodina is one area that has the least forest in Europe. That fact itself says that we must engage in European trends of shaming, forest protection, and what is most important at this point in the exchange of scientific information. Our scientific institutes in Belgrade, then in Novi Sad, were really already involved, and this is one further path of even greater integration and what it means to move on. In this context, we have a set of laws on exchanges of students, a set of laws and an agreement called on reform of education. Anyone who deals with education knows very well that it is a very important exchange of students. It's very important that our university students go to other universities abroad to see how they learn there, to acquire new knowledge and to apply those skills in our country right now. But also Serbia and universities in Serbia can offer Europe many good things, many good scientific truths and scientific values that our scientists, who often work in silence, who do not take many pictures, do not participate much in public life and achieve top results. That is why I think it is necessary to achieve, to allow this agreement to be ratified so that we can continue to make that exchange of students, which is one of the basics of the Bologna average, because each of us who went to professional training abroad knows very well what it means to be in another country and learn something. One of the questions mentioned here is security. The signing of an agreement with countries such as Germany, Poland, Bulgaria, means that security is very important. We give very great importance for the simple reason, because the country's security is in the first place. We have migration, we have international criminals connecting much faster than cops do and thus giving the right answers. So, go ahead. One question, it will be one of the last questions I want to mention, which is the Social Security Agreement with the Republic of Romania. What's this about? We have the fact that our people work in Romania, especially from Banat, they go to Romania and are very often and unprotected. Also, a number of Romanians are working in Serbia, and that is why it is very good to regulate the area in order for people to have and exercise their rights. Cross-border co-operation, which will be significantly higher in the coming period, will also mean greater mobility, will also mean the possibility of competing with European funds in order to get significantly more funding, as the EU is encouraging such co-operation. A colleague from SVM spoke of the fertility of the Tisa River. I fully support it, because the Tisa River is becoming an international river, for international transport, and that means a river that will connect countries like Hungary and Serbia, and we, as we know with Hungary right now, really have relations at the highest level. Therefore, all agreements that mean a lot to us and administratively for the citizens of Serbia mean that their lives will be easier, that they will get much more information, that they will be better. It is our task, as MPs, that we accept such agreements, to support them, and the SDPS will support these agreements with satisfaction as it has supported so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14493	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14494	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, today we have a set of 12 draft laws confirming agreements from various areas, from spheres of great importance to citizens of Serbia. Unlike my esteemed colleagues who claimed yesterday in this room that these agreements were meaningless, that this topic of the agenda was not interesting, I can only ask myself whether or not they understood what they were talking about or didn't read the agreements they allegedly talked about yesterday, although at least some of them spoke about agreements and agendas. In order for Serbian citizens to understand the importance of all these agreements, I will particularly remain on the agreement to confirm between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Romania on social security. After 40 years of enforcement of the current regulation, which only regulated urgent and urgent medical assistance when it comes to citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Romania, this agreement is far broader and more comprehensive, since, in addition to the right to urgent and urgent medical care, it regulates issues of complete social security, including PIO rights, health insurance, health care, work-related insurance, occupational illness and child allowance. Why is this significant? It is significant because, unlike the 1970s, perhaps a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia did not act or change their residence and exercised some of these rights in the Republic of Romania, which is no longer the case today. How important this is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also for the citizens of Romania, the fact that at this point, this agreement can be applied directly to at least 40,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia at the moment who are either currently living in the Republic of Romania or are performing a certain type of economic activity. How thoroughly an agreement has been made, however, for some five, six years, it is not only the fruit of some short-term work, it also says that in one comprehensive way it regulates rights both in accordance with one law and with another, but primarily by respecting all those, how can I say, the assets and experiences that our law in this area regulates. Some of the standard solutions and principles that this Agreement confirms and determines are equal treatment for citizens and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Romania in the area of social security, direct payment of the benefits obtained, the possibility of collecting the periods of insurance necessary to ensure that certain types of this protection are achieved and rights to it, but also prevents overlaps, except in certain situations that represent exceptions. This agreement represents the possibility of a single working century where pensions are later calculated proportionally on the basis of earnings achieved in one and the other countries if the user lacks a period of insurance where his residence is located and where he asks for a pension to be realised. It also regulates the use of health care for persons who have residence or residence in the territory of one or other republic and the principle of ensuring so-called ‘resistance’. which implies that the State whose insurance policy is at stake is burdened with giving and social security. How much of the facts this agreement has on both legislation also tells its direct impact on the laws and regulations governing pension and disability insurance, health insurance, labour damage and occupational diseases, maternal giving and children's allowances to the Republic of Serbia, and Romania has an impact on as many compatible areas in the Republic of Romania, and this says how complex this agreement is and how well it has a basis to make it easier for citizens to exercise their rights either in the Republic of Serbia or the Republic of Romania, if that realisation depends on what they did at some point in one of these other republics. This Agreement shall apply equally to all those subject to the rules which I have counted or those exercising rights on the basis of it and the exercise of the rights of other persons. What is important is that there is an exception when it comes to preventing overlapping, because the agreement says that they cannot be transferred and retain the rights that are exercised by the realisation of overlapping of the same period of insurance, except in the case of invalidity, age, family pensions, funeral or occupational diseases paid by the competent state authorities of the institution. Giving for disease and maternity is a special area that is regulated here, and in the area of giving that is related to age, disability or the ugliest things, when it comes to death, if those who wish to exercise some of the rights arising from these areas are not sufficient, let me say, the time period that is needed, even in the collection between the rights achieved in the Republic of Romania and Serbia, is recognised to them also the time period of coverage of such a third country law with which the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Romania have an agreement. So it went to the widest possible powers and the most appropriate way to expand the circle of users of these rights and be defined as accurately as possible. When it comes to the use of the official language, no requirement in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Romania can be rejected because the application has been submitted in the official language of the other republic. This means that a request in Serbian language in the Republic of Romania must be accepted by their competent authorities and treated as appropriate, as is our case. This implies the release from various taxis that have so far had to be paid, a special type of overs that demanded costs, etc. It is particularly important that in the area of protection of rights in the case of regular or extraordinary legal medicinal products or to make complaints or objections to appropriate solutions, by orderly delivery, under this Agreement, when it comes into force, it will be deemed to have been done in a valid and legal manner and respected both by one and the other member if it is given to the competent authority of any of these two countries. So, if someone wants to object to a solution that is related to any kind of compensation in the Republic of Romania, it is sufficient that they make a timely and orderly complaint or appeal to hand over some body to us in the Republic of Serbia, which is compatible with the authority that needs to decide on it and that appeal will be considered appropriate. I had to say all of this, and this is only part of what the agreement covers, in order for Serbian citizens to understand how important, extremely important all these agreements are, and perhaps a good agreement between the two countries is harder to conclude than to pass a good law concerning only one state, because two legislations are practically harmonised here to enable citizens and one and other countries to exercise their rights in the fastest and most efficient and best possible way. In a moment, I will come out of the subject consciously, and with that I want to conclude this discussion. I hope that doesn't happen today. I sincerely ask my colleagues not to abuse the pay phone and the regular session in order to scare the MPs of the ruling furniture with any kind of strong demonstrations or by putting in a hint some kind of October 5th or anything else, because you can really neither scare us nor leave us any effect nor have the need for it, and in the end it is incorrect, and it is also incorrect, I will not say who, alone, will recognize, tell lies from this pay phone yesterday and claim to the citizens of Serbia that anyone from this House at yesterday's session has been belittled in any way, offended people who, in peaceful protests, express their dissatisfaction. The individual's auto projections really need to be their problem, and if this continues like this, I'm really going to get into a situation where I agree with Mr. Zivkovic when he proposes a doctor's examination, because I don't think this is really healthy. I'm going to attribute this to current dissatisfaction and revolt because of the results some have achieved in the elections or have not achieved what they expected, but if this becomes a permanent category, maybe you should seriously consider some kind of medical examination, because it would be really sick. Besides, after these elections, an old folk proverb will likely be changed, and it will read: “No less percentage, no more bullshit. “ but not to go into it any further. Thank you for your attention. The Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, will support and vote in favour of these agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14495	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14496	Thank you. Since there is no text without context, it is two about the context in which this session is held, started on the first working day of the regular spring session and conceived for routine verification of various agreements, and in the meantime delayed due to the elections and now flows with the government in decline. I didn't know the number of ministers would drop so quickly from yesterday to today. I don't slow down the procedure. One minister is enough. Knowing the present minister, quite enough. Forty days away from the official resignation of the Prime Minister and the formal fall of this government, and this is the second unusuality of this session, except that it was designed as a routine, so it was delayed as quite unroutine, so that it would not be discussed candidates for the president of Serbia and now we have ministers who came in very large numbers yesterday in enthusiasm, but today they have important jobs not to be in the Assembly. I understand that. I regret to say that too little attention is paid to the essence of a few agreements, and unfortunately, it is our common sense of conduct and our common damage, contempt for the content of what we decide and pride to give our political views first, deeming them interesting to the people who look at us, not thinking about the consequences of certain agreements in this case, and the bill's proposals in other cases produce. It's a bad habit I hope will start to release the next government, since this defacto has fallen. These six weeks, it's only gonna be so much that we're fighting in the papers who's gonna be in the future, which is just as sad, but good, what can we do about it? I will make more detailed remarks about three or four, of which I will make the first Doha Amendment Agreement, because the minister is present, and by doing so I want to pay my respects to him for being here. I have no doubt that both the minister and I know what this is about, as I also have no doubt that most of the public in Serbia do not know what it is about and when it comes to the Kyoto Protocol and when it comes to its application, the duration, the conflicts that existed between the various states and formal and informal powerful positions, which prevented Kyoto from applying the protocol, the conflict through which it was tried to reach common awareness of what we are doing to the planet of the country with environmental pollution, and up to the current difficulties of ratifying and applying amendments. Why do I think it is good for Serbia to ratify this agreement? We don't have as an undeveloped country or a country stopped by developing a commitment to measure or trade emissions, as other countries have done or done, but I think we have a commitment to our own country, as much as it is stopped in development, to talk in detail about why the Kyoto Protocol came to the planet, what kind of people we are when we destroyed water, land and air without which we can't live, and we are such people, not from other developed countries, but people from the most developed countries. Let me add, why is it important to talk about it? You have in the last 25 years a kind of special change in China that has repeated all the mistakes that have been made before it by the countries that have developed and developed economically before it. How stupid do you have to be to look in front of you, Frankfurt or Dresden in 1965, to watch Maya in 1970, and to do the same thing to your Beijing and your rivers? To me, however, it is a subject of a couple of excellency for the Assembly, no one else is. Just because I'm a minority doesn't mean I'm wrong. I am sorry to know that the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection has the capacity to discuss in this assembly what we hate about this country. For three years, I've been walking past a wild dump in Banovci, I'm going to get Novi Sad, and I'm locking containers that my fellow citizens, not Roma, leave open, and everyone throws garbage wherever they think of it. Healthy air, which we don't care about. Ibar, plastic bag, what do we care? We're not required for Kyoto protocol. If we want to be as stupid as the Chinese, I don't mind. I also refuse to make a fool out of me, anyone, and to be stupid and say, well, this is a routine session, these Doha amendments, it goes on and on, it doesn't apply to us anyway, it's just to put the word that we adopted them. There is not enough fat enough to put in a society that is missing its chance to talk seriously about the subject of Kyoto protocol and Paris and these Doha amendments. I hope I've removed any misunderstanding that this is about keeping the minister responsible or this government responsible for the situation, but I'm holding you responsible for not building a dialogue, because it's your job. No matter how difficult this dialogue may be, no matter how much reciting and pointless songs are, instead of having a real conversation about what Ibar looks like in five years from today, what it's going to look like because we haven't given 10 million for the erosion cards, what it's going to look like, because we've changed the law, and we're going to let six months to get dirty for another six months, so it's dirty for another year, to earn a man, a hard thing, to make money in the 21st century. So if we don't understand that it's about Kyoto protocol, then we'll be waiting for another generation in 25 years to understand that. I don't think it's even political perspective, it's not ethical, it's not human to do that. That's what I'm saying because the new government is coming. I'm not opposed to seeing this minister in the new government, I don't know what's gonna happen to him in the meantime, but I'd like the dialogue on the future government taking over. Other remarks concern an agreement on respecting the Prokola on the elimination of illegal trade in tobacco products. On the committee on which this was discussed, I heard an immeasurable sentence from the World Health Organization, whose representatives here, who said, are all the money that comes from when the tobacco smuggling goes directly to health protection. I'm asking you not to send such boys to committees anymore, because, how can I say, it's rude. I had to ask the secretary of state – will anyone here get serious about the law and protocol regarding illegal tobacco trade. What I have as a serious remark and what I find wrong with the Ministry Act that is now in force, I don't know if in 40 days when the government formally falls will be the new Ministry Act, I'll watch it, I'll ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection right now to tell everyone who wrote that it will be a lot of effort to explain to me why the fourth time this government can't have the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I can be very imaginative when I want to be hard, I don't like it, but you're stubborn. So, for these protocols on tobacco smuggling, why the Ministry of Health, aman, especially with that argument that it goes into any medical services? First of all, it's not working. It decides here how much money the minister is looking for in the government goes to which medical services. Second, if you want to talk about the health department being in charge of coming to me and talking about smuggling tobacco, why don't you put him in charge of guns? The weapon kills the same thing, the drugs kill the same thing, the bombs, everything. Let the Ministry of Health do it. That's how I tell you, I'm going back to Kyoto protocol, I'm going back to contempt for the dialogue about what we're doing, what we're talking about, what we want with the law that suppresses tobacco smuggling. Why is there a heavy ratification going on? Why did she go well and easily, and I agree with her? The United Nations, when they proposed a general ban order on tobacco damage, why did it go so easily? Because it's true. We smokers harass those who don't smoke in closed spaces. We can't harass them. Why is this going so hard? Why isn't that explained to us? Why won't people ratify these protocols? Who benefits from smuggling tobacco and illegal trade? How are you going to establish a license? Who's actually interested in having this protocol ratified or not? What is the difficulty in accepting ratification and difficulty once we accept it? It is not disputed to follow the ratification of protocols we already committed once after 2006, but it is disputed that we will not talk when I ask – and what does the Ministry of Health do? What does the Ministry of Health have to do with tobacco smuggling? Same as the gun smuggling. But your illustration is - I don't need to talk to you, I'm the government, I'm the power, I do what I want. The fact that it's going to be common damage, it rarely comes to who, unfortunately, it comes to mind. That attitude of arrogant refusal to really talk about what we're voting on is a common shame. It won't make anyone feel better, unfortunately. At the end and the authority, but inevitably, an agreement concerning an agreement with Qatar. I've had several remarks about this fashion -- we can't do it without foreign investment that we're giving money from the budget. Less – more, and in simple language, it comes down to that. We love foreign investors, and they love our budget, because the budget is always such that it has money. Where did that fashion we didn't invent come from? It was invented by the developed world, the same one who first soiled Europe, the same one that is now dirtying China, the same one that is dirtying Russia, unfortunately. So, the idea is -- I'm an investor, but I don't want to risk it with my money, and the banks are pretty crowned after 2008, and I come as an investor and ask your budget to share the risk with me. It's called – pay me a job and it's such a pest policy that we'll watch it as we see it before Kyoto polluted the earth, water and air. Here we have polluted the right of society to decide on its development by imposing a decision that we cannot have jobs unless, to those who call themselves investors, we in the budget don't give money to which we share the risk. She was always against it, when they first made me comment... And that's what Qatar is all about, to be clear. That's what Qatar comes down to. I asked what the product had in Qatar for us to buy as goods. I didn't find it. What's with the favors? That's what I found. They're called funds. That's where my fellow physicists work, who made up the profession by making up crises on the stock market in both America and London, and there they are, for God's sake, in Saudi Arabia, and also in Qatar. So, when I first said that it was to come to someone who called themselves an investor, as the famous cathartic funds will appear, and says – I will invest in Serbia, develop Serbia, I love Serbia very much, and you give me 1,000, five, seven, 12, as much as you agree, hand to hand, we are comrades, per job, so when I first criticized it, then I was mentioned "Fiyat" and I explained it then, and I will explain it now. In 2001, all people who were jobless in the Fiat were put on the budget to be paid out of the budget for jobs that do not exist and do not work. Why? Because in 2001, we turned the light on over something that doesn't exist, and still in the perception of people there is a successful economy, giants, businesses. With 10 years of collapse, it didn't exist. You had a choice then and to put these people on the budget or to vote, and with great difficulty voted for it, to pay them back the health and pension contributions for them, in the first round of 350,000, so that they could connect the internship or say – we don't care, these were before us. Unfortunately, there was this contempt and lack of dialogue today and the guilt of what someone else had done before, not solving the problem. When it was first given to an investor in the workplace, it meant that they were no longer on the budget, and it was "Fiat". All the rest of this, which is going to be Qatar, we'll be here, is that there's an investor coming to you for a special regulation that we're giving to the most senior nation, to be Qatar, and to agree with everyone on our development. How far do you have to be, how can I tell you, away from wanting to do something for Serbia? If, as Government, you choose to negotiate with someone in Qatar about Serbia's development and you refuse to discuss Serbia's development here in this assembly, how much will another one of these paradoxes cost us? It may seem to you that for none of these three agreements, which I have mentioned, I am not talking about the things that they will produce as consequences, in the years ahead of us at least, we will see the consequences of the Doha amendment, except as a verse that we adopted them, but we will talk about the consequences of this planet's Kyoto protocol and the Doha amendment every day around us in our streets, in our neighborhoods, in our rivers, in our foresters, wherever we pass. If we don't talk about who's in charge, such as the health ministry and illegal tobacco trade, we'll have co-operation in which the health ministry is practically not going to interfere, because it is a business of finance and police and it may be, I hope, good results in curbing illegal tobacco trade, but the lack of dialogue on why the Ministry of Health does it, will lead us to the fact that we'll have someone doing something that they don't have jurisdiction over, and what they don't care about, and there will be damage in common. If, and I suppose it will be very soon, it comes to this Assembly to ratify any contract and agreement with Qatar because of this agreement that we are now signing, I will have to, unfortunately, repeat everything I've said about the pestic idea, that because in 2008, the gambling games broke practically the Balkan financial system that was lying on the budgets of developed countries, that investors came up with – there is no money, I have to, I love to have, and where I'm going to ask for the budget. Too bad we talk to them about it, not here in the Assembly, you don't have to look at me like that, talk to whoever you want, but there are conversations people will hear about what they really need for Serbia's development. For the next 40 days, I want you to be healthy, alive and happy. You are one of the longest governments that has fallen, and when the new government is elected, I hope that, at least in some of the segments, there will be words – dialogue, which I have not heard in any exposé, except in one in the first 2001 and nowhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14497	The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14498	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I always find it interesting to have a discussion with you on different topics, since you always have one different approach. Maybe because you come from the space you come from, maybe that's where the sense of humor is different. There's something I'd like to tell you about the minister's presence. The fact is that right now I'm the only one here, but in the next half hour, the clock is going to change for one space of reason, because there's still a government session in progress with the World Bank, where GDP growth is being discussed. I thought I'd be here right now. I have a few things to tell you, first of all, about the Doh amendments, about dialogue, about jurisdiction, and a little bit about the story of investment, because it's all connected. Sooner or later, and when Kyoto protocol and amendments to the Doha, tomorrow the Paris Convention, it all comes down to whether or not someone is going to invest or under what conditions and what investments they're going to have on our premises. What I'm saying is, I think it's important for the public, it's a story about our consciousness, a story about the need to protect the environment. Yesterday I tried to say about it at one point, although I don't know how much time I had for it and how much hearing there was for it... At one point I heard that it doesn't matter at all this kind of ratification, that these are the things that are, I'm not talking to you here, I'm talking to you in general... I think these are extremely important things, because this is what we're building the foundations for the future, that is, trying to solve everything that's happened in the past. Now there are different subjective views why this came about, is it because of the need for development, what to put first – the development or need to preserve nature and what you said happened in some other countries? We are witnessing these days that this Paris Convention in some developed countries is trying to put in a second plan, and that is to say, for the sake of making sure that, in national interests, national interests are defined differently, that some industry that, in the previous period due to the application of these Doha amendments and other things was not in the first place. I'm talking about the North American continent. I'm not talking about Serbia at all. Dialogue. I think it's a key word, especially in terms of the environment. We had our first session of the National Climate Change Council a month, a month and a half ago, where participants, different actors from all sides, all structures, were the public sector, the civil sector... We're trying, we need time. Once you're on your way, there's no going back. We are trying to develop this dialogue on the need to take care of the development of climate change awareness. It's not just climate change that we don't see around ourselves right now and it's just environmental pollution at all. They have a much more far-reaching character. Here we have a situation today, we go out, we look at western Serbia, east, south, we have incredible events in the second half of April, we have weather opportunities that are not characteristic of this time of year, and that's all the consequence of not doing it before Kyoto. The inactions and misunderstandings of the importance of climate change, where we need, in fact, that all that the UN has made available to us, as sources of funding, we try to use precisely by ratifying these agreements, where we can be applicators of the means to change the situation around us. As far as ignorance is concerned, it's our biggest environmental problem, and I absolutely agree, that we need to have a special sector in the government, especially the ministry, or whatever we call it, that will deal with this concept, this area, because it's so important, that it's simply incompatible with other things. You can't often connect in the same place and a good and bad guy, because sometimes it's all conflicted, no matter where the ministry put it all. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, you know that, a lot of things are in the jurisdiction of local communities. Not running away from the responsibility we have, but above all, the development of consciousness is important and this dialogue is very important to develop. We've got more and more of these dumps, so-called. municipal deposits of regional character, which have evolved across Serbia, but not yet enough. Still in the minds of some local communities, the importance of environmental pollution is not as recognised as it should be. By developing consciousness, we are actually going to force these local decision makers to behave differently under public pressure. Some local self-governments, who had greater awareness, have already reached that level. Here, the other day, Raska, the question of Ibra's plum. We set up the first one, maybe it's a pioneer step, a pilot project, to try one artificial dam to stop plastic bottles from going through the Raska River, to go to Ibra later. It's all pioneer steps, but that's where it comes from. The ministry has made a commitment, if it turns out in this first year of implementation of the project, that we'll solve the entire Ibra plum in such a way, and then we'll come up with a bag problem. You there when you get there you have an amazing thing. What I am pleased with, what I saw with Mayor Novi Pazar, who on this case and project realized how important it was for him to solve the problem he has in his space. It's not big money, but it's an important consciousness. As for the erosion cards you mentioned, this year we put funds into the budget for it, and this year it will be done. They are classified in the right position in the budget and this thing will be done because it is very important to us for future development. As far as tobacco itself is concerned, I wouldn't get too involved in it, but I'll just say that there's two things to tell, one means to earn and where we place them, and the other is control. We have a tobacco management within our Ministry of Finance, which deals with this, and very often we come into a situation where farmers, or someone else is asking about tobacco, and then we have to explain that it is not the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is actually the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, for one reason that is very important, because it is one of the more generous sources of revenue for the budget, and it is perfectly normal. Management and control systems have just been placed in the tobacco department. The health ministry is dealing with some of the consequences that may arise. As far as tobacco smuggling is concerned, we have clear rules, tobacco management, then the police, then the D.A.'s office. A third thing, which may sometimes be a matter of agreement with the State of Qatar. It's not that much at this point in the first place because of this direct agreement. The story is about investments is, you know, one of the most important things. We have a few opposing things standing before us, it's a question of growth, it's a question of progress in the economy, a question of employment and a question of sources where you can finance all these things. We've been through a lot in the last 10, 15 years. We definitely don't have enough of our own resources to develop the way we want to. We also need foreign investment, but also the development of domestic investments, which it has recently. In my practice, I've been doing this for a long time, meeting a lot of investors who don't want to take funds from the budget. It's not a rule he wants to set. There are, of course, those who want and want and come for it. We had a lot of stuff. In 2011, I myself, in 2012, pointed out to the Ministry of Economy at the time, or as it was already called, the economy, I no longer know, the issue of control, which is now developed, we have now established a system so that someone can get an investment and how these investments are controlled. What you're talking about is the Fiat case and getting off the budget, the exact correct reason. Some people aren't on the budget anymore, I say hello. Other things under this agreement, these are things to discuss. But why is it important that we have an investment and investment-enhancing system, in different ways, by creating a legal framework and also by financial support? We're about to get a bunch of people off the budget, not to be users of different social contributions or anything else. We're right here on the same trail, it's just a different path. That's all I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14499	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14500	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, esteemed citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a set of draft laws confirming important international agreements, protocols, conventions from several different areas, such as environmental protection, education, science, culture, social security, police co-operation and the security of citizens. Among the proposed laws is the proposal for a law to confirm the Doha of Amendments, the Kyoto Protocol, along with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. I find this bill particularly important, because climate change is one of the greatest global challenges of our time, because with the consequences, most often in terms of droughts, floods, typhoons, tornados, soil erosions, today the entire planet faces. The problem of climate change has been a problem that has affected for years and decades, not rarely and disrupted and achieved the goals of sustainable and economic development of all countries in the world. The Republic of Serbia itself faces numerous consequences of climate change. The estimated total material damage has been caused by extreme weather conditions in Serbia since 2000, higher than five billion euros, some 70% of which are caused by drought and high temperatures. We are also witnessing the enormous material damage caused by the catastrophic May floods of 2014. The effects of climate change can be so serious and far-reaching that every country must contribute to the effort to stabilize our planet's climate. As the main drivers of climate change, the international, scientific and professional public has marked increased atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases, and for increased emissions of gases with a greenhouse effect of ignidide, methane, azotsuboxite, is responsible for man, i.e. human activity, more accurate industrialisation and lack of care about how to use natural resources. The adoption of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in 1992, the main objective of which was to provide mechanisms for stabilising atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases, has actually started a global fight against climate change. The method of achieving the objective was established by the Kyoto Protocol, which also established the first binding period 2008. - In 2012, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for 38 industrially developed countries of the world. The Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol sets out the second binding period 2013. – 2020, for industrially developed countries, with a quantified obligation to reduce gas emissions by 18% compared to the reference 1990s. Since 2001, the Republic of Serbia has been a member of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, one of the 183th Member States, is a signator of the Kyoto Protocol and other international agreements in this area aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. As developing countries under the Kyoto Protocol and the Doha amendment, Serbia has no quantified obligation to reduce gas emissions in either the first or the second binding period, but has obligations to establish and implement measures and activities to achieve the objectives of the Convention. In that sense, I would like to say that the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection during 2014 and 2015, when I led the ministry, developed the first updated two-year report by the Republic of Serbia under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. This report provides an overview of activities in the area of climate change, including information on current and expected greenhouse gas levels, on the possibilities and ways of reducing them, on reporting and verification monitoring. In addition, on the basis of implemented gas inventory, the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection then came up with important information, such as that the total greenhouse gas emissions in Serbia in 2013 were about 3.5% lower than in 2010 and about 25.1% lower than in 1990. Also, a share of individual sectors has been identified in total greenhouse gas emissions in our country, namely energy 79.4%, agriculture 10.9%, the waste sector 5.1% and industrial processes 4.8%. Thanks to this responsible approach to the problem, the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, supported by experts and the interested public in 2015, prepared a proposal on a possible national contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions for the period 2020 – 2030. The government adopted the proposal by the ministry and Serbia was among the first ten countries in the world and the first in the region to deliver a planned national contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adopted at the Paris Conference in December 2015. All this says that Serbia as a member of the UN Framework Convention, Kyoto Protocols and accompanying international agreements, although there is no quantified obligation to reduce gas emissions for the period until 2020, has taken major steps to date, including in the global fight against climate change. In this regard, I find it extremely important that today, in the assembly procedure, a bill on the confirmation of the Doh of the amendments to the Kyoto Protocol was found. By adopting this law, we fulfil our obligations to the international community, confirm our willingness to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and our contribution to the fight against climate change. Now I'm going to look back briefly on another bill. It is a draft law confirming the Convention on the European Forest Institute as an international organisation. This convention was signed in Finland. It's been in use since 2003. It has been ratified by 25 Member States so far. In 2003, the then State Community of Serbia-Montenegro joined this Convention, and today it is necessary for Serbia to ratify the Convention, given that our scientific institutions in the field of forestry are already associated members of this association. Membership at the European Forest Institute is very important for Serbia as a European state of active participation in the creation of a European forestry policy, but also from the aspect of the possibility of using the international organisation's scientific and professional achievements. First of all, we have in mind Serbia's forest wealth, the need to protect existing forests and increase areas under the forests. Forests are, we know, the lungs of the planet and our task is to use our and European skills to improve the state and use this natural resource in a sustainable way. In my presentation, I will refer to some other proposals for an agreement discussed at this assembly session. It's about agreements in the field of education. First of all, I would like to refer to the draft law confirming the Agreement on Participation in the Central European University Exchange Programme CEEPUS III. The importance of this international project in the field of education is great for us because it provides broad opportunities for achieving and improving co-operation on student mobility, teachers, associates, and within the framework of the Central European University Exchange Programme. Otherwise, the CEEPUS programme has been under way in the Republic of Serbia since 2005. The CEEPUS III programme entered into force in May 2011. In this programme, Serbia participates on the basis of an interpretation of the Vienna Convention on Contract Law, not on the basis of ratification of the signed agreement. The ratification of this Agreement will ensure that administrative barriers are removed for even more quality and full co-operation under this programme. By the way, I want to point out that the special value of this programme is that it provides the possibility of scholarship students in the Central European university exchange programme, both in basic and doctoral studies. It then provides practical training in companies, research centres, state institutions, with the financial support of the host country. In addition to a number of practical and financial benefits to speed up student and teacher mobility, the value of this agreement is that it provides for the establishment of national CEEPUS offices to deal with preparation and grant scholarships to our students. We also have before us a draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other members of the Education Reform Initiative in Southeast Europe on the Secretariat of the Initiative. This initiative is otherwise intended to update educational processes, educational reforms in Southeast Europe, i.e. to bring education systems and educational standards into line with common European standards in the field of education. In 2010, when the initiative became an international organisation, Serbia expressed its readiness to accept the role of hosts. Since 11 March 2011, Serbia has chaired the initiative's Management Board. At the time, it meant great recognition for Serbia when education was at stake, but also great recognition and great trust to the then Ministry of Education and Science, led by Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. In 2013, an agreement was signed to keep the initiative in Belgrade indefinitely and the bill actually provides for regulation of technical conditions that Serbia must meet as host country. This is why it is extremely important for this bill to be adopted, for the reason that the necessary logistics for the work of the secretariats of the initiative is provided in practice. Finally, very briefly, I will refer to another draft law on the agenda of today's session, which is the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on co-operation in the fields of culture, education, science, youth and sports. Otherwise, this agreement was signed on 29 November 2016 and constitutes a legal basis for the implementation of bilateral co-operation between the two countries in the areas concerned. This law is also important for improving the overall relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Czech Republic, and the special value of the Agreement is that members of the Serb national minority in the Czech Republic and the Czech national minorities in Serbia are provided with legal conditions that they can work to preserve and cultivate the native language, historical heritage and their own culture. The entry into force of this law will stop the previously signed agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Czech Republic, which was ratified in 2009. Dear People's MPs, this and other agreements in the agenda today's session will also be discussed by other Socialist Party MPs. I would finally like to confirm that the SPS Parliamentary Group will support ratification of all agreements, protocols and conventions under discussion at this assembly session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14501	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, regarding the laws concerning the confirmation of the university co-operation agreement, the reform of education, as well as cooperation in the field of culture, youth and education with the Czech Republic, we have treated these laws on the Committee I am leading and gave them full support, so that I will not enter into a deeper analysis and comment. What I find interesting is a set of laws regarding organized crime, either implicit or explicit. I find it very important that these agreements are signed and laws ratifying these agreements, because it is a matter of vital importance to this society. For the sake of illustrations, I will list one of the most dramatic examples of how one healthy, vital business initiative in one area is killed by organised crime. I think the public knew that New Market 20 years ago was an example of the expansion of the private initiative of a small family business, where we only had thousands of manufacturers, confectious and other products in that city. It was actually expected to become a locomotive for the development of the entire Sanjay space and beyond. However, given the geographical position and other circumstances, as well as the failure of certain state authorities, we have come to the situation that organised crime, cheap drug capital, actually ruled that initiative in a way that instead of several thousand producers now, we have only a few dozen manufacturers in Novi Pazar. The key reason is the very clear crime scene of local authorities, the crimes of individual judges and prosecutors, crime and individual police officers. I therefore find it very important that the state at all levels, the competent authorities, first of all, pay particular attention to this issue, and that these agreements, these agreements, these ones, are supported, and others, in particular, are updated when it comes to countries of the region that have a direct impact on organised crime. I consider it very important and all agreements concerning mutual investment. In this case, it's a very interesting agreement with the State of Qatar. The state of Qatar is a very important country, although geographically and by population very small, in the Middle East, development and investment are one of the most important countries. I consider it a very important agreement with the country of Qatar, and not only in one direction, where the investments are expected by Qatar in Serbia, but also in the knowledge that Qatar is one of the most interesting countries in the field of investment, especially construction. It's one of the world's largest construction sites, which can be very interesting for our builders, but also for investors in that and other field. One can also learn from Qatar how a small country can become regional and rich and internationally very interesting. We have good experience in the relationship between Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, but I think that this range of co-operation should be expanded, here, with Qatar, then with Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and some other countries of the Muslim world. It should be borne in mind that these about half a million Muslims in Serbia can be a very important bridge of that co-operation, and here, from the position of the president of the Friendship Group for Qatar, I am available to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14503	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14504	We have 12 agreements, if I see correctly, in a united debate, which in itself is a paradox. There's both environmental and police and forestry and everything. But we have one more fact, which is that by adopting these agreements, we are at least 50 days behind schedule, because it is so unconstitutional, illegal and unreasonable a decision by the President of Parliament that our work has been delayed, for absolutely pointless reasons and these agreements for more than 50 days alone, waiting for adoption. I see some have been sent to parliament since November, last October, so the question is why hasn't the government sent them before, since some have been signed before? Secondly, why are they standing in a drawer in parliament this long, why don't we adopt them? The question is, and how much damage has been caused by the failure to accept these protocols, each individual? Some of them have a fact that is absolutely identical to the date of adoption. I don't mean Kyoto protocol, but I mean police co-operation protocols, social security co-operation, etc., etc. Why is it so long and why has it been these 50 days? Of course there's no answer. It stood because the government is afraid of the opposition's voice in parliament, some of them are the most afraid, so they are elected to the summit of this parliament, and some are afraid of even more, so there is one now in Germany and only one and the unfortunate Minister of Nedimovic were left here to fight for the honor of all of them...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14505	No offense, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14506	It may also mean that only the present minister is not a candidate for the new Prime Minister. But I leave it to the congregation's majority, so be it. I also have specific questions for some of these agreements. For example, the Doha Amendment to Kyoto Protocol, does it also deal with pollution of the media and political scene in one country? Is polluting polluted media towards citizens also part of these amendments, not to mention political pollution? Is the agreement between the government of Serbia and the Republic of Poland on co-operation in the fight against organised crime, does that include "Savamalu"?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14507	Have you read the agreement?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14508	That's what you read when you have time and don't throw it at me, but sit there...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14509	I've used these 40 days to read all the agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14510	It's been used for something else for 40 days. So you've been hitchhiking for 50 days. My question is whether there's an agreement with Poland on security...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14511	Ambassador, you must speak of the agenda points of the Rules of Procedure that you yourself have brought.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14512	I'm talking about the agenda you don't understand, but that's your problem, not mine. And this is what the citizens of Serbia are looking at.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14513	Yes, it is. I can tell you that it's my pleasure to be out of touch with some people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14514	So is "Savavala" part of the protocol? Is the Security Agreement with the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany also about the assassination of the Lambs? (Zoran Zivkovic: There may be some knowledge. [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14515	Ambassador, we have a deep misunderstanding between you and me. (Zoran Zivkovic: I completely agree here. (Laughter) Absolutely. (Zoran Zivkovic: Give me back my time.) I can't pay you back at all, because you don't want to talk about agenda points. (Zoran Zivkovic: When you are a doorman, so you know... What do I become? (Zoran Zivkovic: When you are a doorman, so that you know what anyone will say, then... No, no, the fellow MPs who want to work seriously hear. I'm so sorry. (Zoran Zivkovic: What member? ) According to all the members of the Rules of Procedure, especially according to home education. (Zoran Zivkovic: Yours. Mine, of course, mine. No one can have regrets according to home education if they don't own it. (Zoran Zivkovic: Missing. So, mine, yes. (Zoran Zivkovic: Give me back my time.) I can't give you back time. You have to talk about agreements as previous speakers have all spoken. Everyone, no matter what political option they belong to. (Zoran Zivkovic: I am talking about agreements. ) You have to log in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14516	So this thing with Germany has nothing to do with the Eggs as far as I can tell. Is the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and Bulgaria on police co-operation, including the status of the Bulgarian fugitive sought by Interpol? Interpol, you know, has something to do with the police. It is called Cveta Vasilev, whom the government of this country, the country's top officials, has been hiding from the Bulgarian law for two and a half years, and is also known for illegally privatising Serbia's Panchevo glass factory, the largest debtor for electricity, gas, taxes and other things. He hangs out with his ex and future president every day. He's hiding from Interpol, from the red Interpol APB, which I pointed to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14517	Excellent MP, I'm sorry, you haven't read the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14518	Well, you have no idea. Interpol has something to do with... Believe me in 50 days you could read and understand, no matter [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14519	To the limit of what? (Zoran Zivkovic: Your restriction. All right, you've got a note from the MP, because of your rude behavior. You will get a chance to choose a new president who will suffer insults and primitiveism that I listen to for a year from individual parliamentary benches. So someone in line with your understanding of decent behavior and your candidate for president of the state. (Zoran Zivkovic: Now give the time back.) Give me your word. No, you won't get the word. No, you've wasted your time, all five minutes on what you said. (Zoran Zivkovic: Why are you telling the truth? ) Check in the ministry. (Zoran Zivkovic: I check? Well, I'm not a secretary. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14520	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a saying – it is unreasonablely difficult to explain that it is unreasonable, that it can be done, it would not be unreasonable. So I'm looking for an understanding for my fellow farmer, a famous winemaker in an attempt that, for example, understands tobacco smuggling...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14521	Ambassador, please on the agenda. Please, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14522	The tobacco smuggling is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14523	Please, just about the agenda, and I'll defend myself without a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14524	But the tobacco smuggling is on the agenda. An illegal store, he understands it best.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14525	All right, then, just about the deal on illegal trade and tobacco.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14526	Well, that's the deal on illegal tobacco trade. He illegally sold the entire tobacco industry during "Sablje". He understands that best. If we're talking about an agreement with Poland, it's best understood because he ran the Empress company where there was no wine for 87 million. So security agreements must be supported to prevent such illegal trade, not only tobacco, but also wine. In his case, the entire tobacco industry is gone, and in another situation, 139 thousand bottles of imported wine have disappeared, and they've lost track of them. Tax evasion, here's a solution, the director was Zoran Zivkovic, tax evasion is worth 17 million dinars. Whether our organs do it or not, I understand his nervousness, probably to do it. I support all other agreements and leave the remaining time to my colleague and ask for understanding, because the demonstrations obviously don't go to my colleague, look for a library here, he found a buffet and please, I'm asking for his understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14527	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14528	Thank you, President. This discussion yesterday and yesterday's and yesterday's presence of many ministers was unusual and did not occur when we had confirmation of an agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Serbian state with other countries or international institutions coming to parliament for verification. Usually, the debate went quickly, easily, without great discussion, big words, but apparently this start of the meeting only after 110 days in 2017 and after a 50-day break was due to the need for a number of MPs to come forward and say something on the subject of these agreements. Some have succeeded to a lesser or greater extent. This also applies to ministers of numerous yesterday, and today there is only one unfortunately, who also talked about the many things they have, and most often do not have much to do with those agreements that are before us today. Also, I believe that the largest number of these agreements is good and our parliamentary group will vote for them, there is nothing disputed. There are agreements signed five, six, seven, ten years ago and over and I think the bigger problem is to see why these agreements have waited so long? Why have they not previously verified themselves in the Serbian parliament and entered into force if they are as important to the lives of Serbian citizens as I think many of the laws proposed by the opposition, which cannot come to the agenda, as some of the laws the government is supposed to propose, and cannot propose, nor come to the agenda. Obviously, we're going to wait another two or more months for the new government, for the new ministers to come here and propose finally some law that we're going to have a debate about. There's an agreement I want to talk about. It's an agreement with the Government of the State of Qatar. Not because I have something against investors from Arab countries, as the opposition MPs are imputed here, but because this agreement differs from all the other eight agreements we have before us. How is it different? Each of these agreements, and I call on my fellow Members to look at it, has either a full agreement photocopied with the signature of whoever signed it or the last page of the agreement where it is seen who signed the agreement on behalf of the State and who signed the agreement on behalf of the other State or the institution. There's no such thing here. We do not see here that this agreement is indeed signed by Minister Ljajic and by Sheik, Minister of Trade in front of the state of Qatar. Why do we have any doubt about these agreements? Because a mechanism has been established in the state of Serbia in the last five years, with this government coming in. A mechanism to launder money. Money being laundered by investors, investors who come by the rules of the countries from these geographical areas, who invest in some big, huge projects that will bring huge millions of dollars to the euro, dollars to the state of Serbia, and of which, to this day, Serbia and Serbian citizens have not seen a single dollar, the euro, the dinar, however you will, but only investments and investments by the state of Serbia, such as "Belgrade on Water", as the story with Al Dahra, as was the story of some chip factory, plane, truck, I don't know what not. So none of those stories were made. People in Serbia think, when you say an Arab sheik is coming, that he's wearing pots of gold, I don't know what, and that he's going to invest it in the state of Serbia now, but that's not the case. Those people only provided credit to the state of Serbia. Terms - 3% interest. Whether it's much or little, we can hold a discussion about it, but there is no investment, and there are costs paid by the state of Serbia. Costs for “Belgrade on Water”. Almost everything is on the shoulders of the Republic of Serbia. Investment in "Er Serbia", everything is on the back of Serbian citizens. Al Dahra, giving the country for free, instead of taking some rent and that the state of Serbia has some benefit. So, we haven't seen anything in five years, and obviously, there are serious international analyses, that this model of alleged investment from Arab countries is actually used for money laundering and that this model is used in many Balkan countries, unfortunately. That is why the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not vote for this agreement. Because we don't see that this agreement is really signed. I don't have any confidence in this government when she says it's signed, I don't know what day, in Doha, because I don't see the signature of either Minister Ljajic or his colleague from Qatar who allegedly signed this, and that exists in all these other eight agreements. Look, there's a photocopied page with the signatures of the agreement. It's the only thing that's not here. Why? I don't know. It's mine to doubt, and it's mine not to vote on a deal like this on the basis of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14529	Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14530	Thank you. I'd like to say a few words about previous exposure, which I don't know simply how to characterize for a simple reason because it was pretty personal. I think it was at least incorrect. But since Mr. Zivkovic is not here, I think it would be rude of me to talk about someone who isn't here. Whether I'm poor or not, I can only say one thing - I'm here to do my job and I'll do it from start to finish, not as soon as I hear something I don't like burning right out of the congregation hall. As for the return of time, I can't even give someone back time that I want to. I know it was nice for someone at some point, but it's up to us to watch us live today and live tomorrow. I think that's actually the way to go, but let me say a few words about these things that concern the agreement because I think that's what's important today. In general, agreements with any country on the status of the most privileged nation are nothing new and nothing unusual, there are more such agreements, but in particular in the work concerning the possible doubts you raised regarding some investors, some investors you spoke of do not exist in Serbia at all that they were taking state agricultural land. I think you know that. You should at least know. On the other hand, with regard to some investments, you just need to get out of the building enough and see if there are any investments or not. I think we just need to turn around and see what's going on around us. On the other hand, do we need investments, both domestic and foreign? One more time, yeah. Any agreement that benefits the development of this country is welcome. I apologize again because I may have taken too much of my freedom, but for the simple reason that I think at the very least I owe the public an answer to one previous thing. I apologize to Mr. Djurisic for ever taking advantage of his discussion and misusing perhaps the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14531	Thank you. The word is Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14532	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we talked about this today and yesterday, and the minister said, as well as colleagues, that raising awareness about the environment is very important for the state of Serbia. Of course, that's true, because obviously not only the Kyoto protocol, but also some other protocols and various agreements when it comes to the environment, we need them terribly. As for local self-government, what is important, information is also for the minister, and I believe he knows, as well as for all of us, that in southern Serbia in many municipalities he does not know who deals in the local self-government environment itself. Is that the department? The department doesn't even exist, not even individuals or persons dealing with the environment. When we talk about consciousness, it is also a good initiative by the ministry that perhaps in one systematic and legislative way we introduce that every local self-government except that it must have its adopted local environmental action plan, that it is an obligation, and also an obligation to at least exist in its municipality, if not in the environmental sector. We've heard more than once today, but certainly using the public, using the media, I need to point out one more detail about the protocol itself. The problem of the environment, i.e. the climate change itself and human influences, was perceived at the end of the 20th century, and it was defined and defined precisely by the UN Convention on Climate Change, adopted at the Rio de Janeiro Conference on Environment and Development in 1992. The state of Serbia ratified the convention in 1997. The main objective of this Convention is to ensure the stabilisation of atmospheric gas concentrations with a glass garden effect at a level that would prevent the impact on the climate system and prevent adverse impacts on biodiversity, water supply, food and energy production and the basic factors of sustainable and economic development and on security at international level. At a third conference of UN member states on climate change, held in Kyoto in Japan in 1997, Kyoto Protocol was adopted to help implement the convention. The protocol defines the obligations of industrially developed countries, including countries in the transition of Central and Eastern Europe. The Republic of Serbia, as we heard several times today, ratified the protocol in January 2008 and accepted general obligations regarding setting and implementing measures and activities to achieve the objectives of the Convention. In the framework of the Kyoto Protocol, along with two mechanisms, which is emissions trade and a joint implementation of emission reductions, a third mechanism has been set up, and this is a clean development mechanism. It is this third mechanism that can be used by Serbia, which in Article 12. The protocol allows developed countries to gain a partial reduction in greenhouse emissions by investing in clean technologies in our country. Despite financial support to developing countries and increasing the so-called Green investment, a clean development mechanism contributes to economic development, then implementation of climate change programmes and a more efficient solution to local environmental problems. In 2010, the state of Serbia developed a National Strategy for Inclusion in the Clean Development Mechanism and then submitted several projects to the Secretariat of the Convention precisely under this programme. Ratification and validation of the Doha Amendments Kyoto Protocol creates, in addition to the possibility that the Republic of Serbia and the right to receive financial support from funds under the Kyoto Protocol, strengthens its role in these partnership relations in international activities and sends a clear signal that we accept European values in the field of environmental protection. What should be pointed out is that every local self-government, right from the beginning of the story, has the obligation to adopt a local ecological action plan, so that, in the fastest possible way, with the help of the media, the public and the state, they will first and foremost raise awareness of the citizens and citizens of Serbia and start a general education in the field of environmental protection, in order to meet the obligations of Chapter 27 as effectively as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14533	The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14534	Thank you, President. Mr. Ministers with guests, colleagues and colleagues, we do have a large number of agreements and ratifications to discuss. Unfortunately, we talked about it yesterday, and we're not going to talk about some issues that seem a little bit more important for what's going on in the country, and it's obvious that you don't want to talk about it, but we heard from the president that she has no intention of avoiding that debate, and we're going to be happy to see it happen. Mr. Nedimovic, I wanted to talk to you a little bit about education, which I don't think is much of your sphere, anyway, is not your portfolio in the government. I'm sorry Mr. Sarcevic isn't here. I think there's a lot of bad practice, it's not forbidden, but I think it's quite a bad practice that in situations where we have this diverse agenda, there's only one minister here, since I can see that there's not a lot of fellow ministers in this debate either, since you're the only one who can participate in this debate. In this sea of agreements that we are discussing today, we have several of them relating to education. One can certainly not be contentious and certainly that this is something that we must support, it is the participation of Serbia in the Central European University Exchange Programme CEEPUS, which will actually give our young scientists a chance that those in Serbia, unfortunately, very often do not get and give them the opportunity to develop their capacities and scientific knowledge in a way that they cannot do in Serbia, because they have no conditions, because there is no funding in Serbia, because in Serbia they are not investing in science and because, ultimately, every day, a message is being sent that knowledge, the right, and science is very much overpriced and not appreciated. Of course, a whole series of questions are being raised as to how the Republic of Serbia will participate in this agreement, I mean, don't mind if you're not the frames to answer these questions. Given that Serbia has a whole range of problems when it comes to keeping a register of scientific papers and conditions in which young scientists work, it is difficult to decide whether the situation is worse in social or natural sciences. There's a very small number of areas to really invest in. Again, I am sorry that we can't talk about it because I think that those young scientists, who have been looking forward to Serbia barely entering this programme, are very interested in hearing the answers to these questions, and you are obviously unable to give them away, so I will probably ask Minister Sarcevic in some form of parliamentary question how did he come up with this. The second education agreement is Serbia's participation in the Education Reform Initiative in Southeast Europe and on the secretariat's seat and initiative. Here, let's say, unlike the previous agreement, something that is absolutely unnecessary. I really don't see what this agreement is for, except that a group of some NGOs are going around the world a little bit, getting some compensation for what they're doing. The only coordination Serbia needs in this sphere is coordination with developed countries where education is satisfactory, in which education gives the results Serbia wants to achieve, in which education creates thinking young people who think their heads are capable of the labour market and trained for the jobs they have been trained for. That's not the case with us. I don't know what Minister Sarcevic thinks he's coordinating education in the Republic of Serbia, when in the draft laws he's prepared, which are not yet in the form of the proposal, how we've had the opportunity to hear, all the modern things that existed in those laws he's removed, and he's actually taking our education back to a level that was 150 years ago, and even those things that were pro-forma in the law, that education should be modern, that education should be trying to learn through discovery, that teaching should not be focused on teachers and learning by heart, but on children, etc., even those things we from these plans, as far as we have the opportunity to hear, we'll get rid of. So it's absolutely unclear who we're coordinating with, how we do it, but yet, since there's no minister here, I don't think you're the right person to talk about it. Third, my favorite, the deal I'm going to talk about is, of course, a mutual investment agreement with Qatar. I'm just asking that we explain what we're investing in Qatar, what mutual investments are, what we invest in Qatar, so that we know what mutual investments are. Only if you can answer me – what is this nation in order that we give the status of the most privileged nation? Because, I don't know if you realize, it's a little paradoxical, if you're giving everyone the highest authority of the nation, then no one's the most privileged. When everything is your priority, nothing is your priority. Indeed, these agreements always surprise us to what extent Serbia is willing to trample on everything that exists in it and send a message that there are no laws, no rules, no constitution, no free market, nothing, but every time we give some kind of written confirmation of it -- here, this is all that does not apply to us, but you will therefore be the most privileged nation, which is why you will be able to operate here in the way you want, so please come and invest with us. I think it's very bad, I think it's dangerous and most dangerous of all, I think it's driving real investors, real investors who might bring real investment here, and that because of our unserious behavior, they're bypassing Serbia in a wide port. Instead, we buy investments, we buy an illusion that there are some investments here, these are all investments that we pay very expensively, you may know best in agriculture how we've spent our time with these miraculous investments from Arab countries, so that, I'm afraid, those investments that cost us very dearly, of which we have no use, and the rest of the world we send a very insecure message, so even if this isn't your area, I think maybe because of agriculture you might know something about it, of course, with great sadness that you don't know absolutely anything about education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14535	Minister Nedimovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14536	I thank you, Madam Chairman, honourable MPs. I thank you for these qualifications that I don't know anything about this. I think today has obviously become a trend in classifying. Of course, I can talk about this a little bit, but I think colleague Sarcevic is much more own, in fact the most own, to talk about it, and I think you'll get a chance to talk to him on this subject. But as far as the last thing they mentioned, the status of the most privileged nation is not a matter invented by Serbia, but a rule, a standard that exists in the World Trade Organisation, in terms of giving certain statuses. With regard to the number of countries that have status with Serbia at the moment, I do not have that information, but in the course of the day I will find out and inform you about it, for one simple reason, because I think it is very important to say it at all times, not to make an impression about what we want to do now, and that is exactly what we are privileged to do. It's not the purpose of this ratification of this agreement. One more thing that makes sense, if you want a deal with someone, so what are we supposed to do now, say that they have all the rights, and we don't have any rights there. I mean, if it were a logical thing that would be completely bad by letting ourselves have some right, we actually just created a legal framework so that it could come to that. Whether or not such investments will actually come into practice is now all for discussion and it is a business that ultimately defines these things. I think too much, in a farm bar, we don't have such situations where it's said that I don't even know how many of those investments. We have two investments, one investment that concerned state agricultural land and two that concerned the purchase of land that is privately owned. So, I, uh, just before and I shared with the other MP this couple of information about it, I don't see that kind of thing, as in the specific Al Dahra case, I don't know at all where they are, they've been mentioned in public but as the realization didn't happen, except in the private property purchase situation. It was the Rudnap Group in the Iriga area, where 51% of the participation in the ownership of a particular legal entity was purchased. As for their intentions, or intentions to participate in these processes, it is entirely legitimate whether this will happen. We'll see, and what we definitely need, is that we accumulate all the available potentials that exist on the domestic or foreign market to develop.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14537	Thank you. Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14538	Thank you, just a brief clarification now. If I understand, so we are giving Katara all the rights here even though we may not be sure if we will ever be able to use the rights that we would possibly provide for by this agreement for ourselves if ever in any future, any closer or further, we would ever invest anything there. I didn't mean Al Dahra, it wasn't mentioned in the public opinion of Al Dahra, but Alexander Vukic explicitly promised that Al Dahra would invest billions of euros in Vojvodina and in agricultural land, so we didn't imagine Al Dahra, it's an investment that didn't come true. I mean other investments that came from Emirata, I mean Karajordjevo, which is a company that came in as some substitute for Al Dahra, or I don't know what function that company came in, which has ruined thousands of acres and ruined Karajordjevo and you know very well that's what I'm talking about. All I ask is that we take care of what we get from these investments, how much they cost us, and what position we put ourselves in, and what kind of message we send to those serious investors where we don't need to buy investments or the vision of investments, but who would truly come to invest in Serbia, if we treat ourselves in this way both according to our laws and according to our Constitution and according to, in this case, agricultural land, but also other resources. Don't mind, we have reason to be skeptical of such investments, according to such agreements, we've seen what happened to agricultural land, we've seen what happened to Er Serbia, what happens to "Belgrade on Water", that's all the things that came as magical investments for which it turns out not only are bad jobs, but that there are probably jobs where someone from the top of the government makes very good money.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14539	Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14540	The President-in-Office and honourable MPs, just one clarification, was not my intention at all what you said at first. I was just talking about the legal framework that's being created that there's this two-way relationship. On the other hand, watch out, when you talk about agricultural land, about this resource, it has been mentioned quite often in previous sessions and in November and December of the month when the Law on Agriculture and the Law on Incentives was discussed, that there would be non-transparent procedures and so on. We've absolutely conducted a procedure that's transparent. My idea and my goal is to completely clean the process and process, and you'll be informed and notified when we finish working on these jobs how it's going to work. Whether one investment from negotiations is realised by the end. Well, look, there's no perfect thing that all the living things you're negotiating to make everything happen. In theory, for example, the startup of small businesses, if ten passes three or four, you've done a serious job. There is never any certainty in the negotiations that something will end. And what would happen if, in the case of this agreement, I couldn't bid on it, if there were any concrete things, we could talk about it on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14541	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14542	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's debate, I will talk about the proposals for a law confirming an agreement relating to the security sector and police co-operation. Organized crime, terrorism, uncontrolled migration, anti-legal drug trafficking are today challenges and threats to world security, because it knows no bounds and spreads at such a rate that international co-operation of security structures is very necessary. The Republic of Serbia has organised an international fight against crime included through numerous bilateral agreements in the security and police co-operation sector that has so far ratified a number of bilateral agreements confirming the determination to face these forms of crime through co-operation with other countries that show interest. In this regard, as an extension of bilateral co-operation in the area of security, I also see agreements on whose ratification we are talking about today. The first is the Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation in the fight against organised and other types of crime. Our government agreement with the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation in the fight against organised and other types of crime was signed in 2011 when Interior Minister was the first Deputy Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic. This agreement, an expression of mutual desire to further strengthen friendly ties and develop co-operation between the authorities of the two countries responsible for the protection of security against crime, especially against organised crime and based on principles of equality, reciprocity and mutual well-being. The agreement covers co-operation in detecting and combating many crimes, especially those against life and health and terrorism and its financing, illegal production of arms smuggling, intoxicating drugs because these crimes are the most widespread and with the most extensive consequences for many countries and peoples. Especially at this time when in the world many areas are affected by ethnic civil and other conflicts and crises. The agreement also includes criminal acts of trafficking and trafficking in human and human organs, illegal border crossing, illegal migration, financial crime, counterfeiting of documents, IDs, cyber crime, as well as a number of other criminal offences that could endanger personal and collective security in one and other signatories. For the sake of effective implementation of the Agreement, competent authorities and their means of co-operation have been established, and the costs of implementing the Agreement shall be borne by each signatories for activity in their territory. We consider this agreement a very important contribution not only to the security of our two countries but also to European security in general, and for these reasons the SPS parliamentary group supports its ratification. The second agreement I will speak of is also important, which is the Security Cooperation Agreement and was signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany in 2016. On behalf of our side, the agreements were signed by Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. This agreement is a fruit of increasing friendly relations between the two countries which believe that joint security and police activities, more organised, can counter and combat criminal acts, in particular acts against life and health, organised crime, terrorism, illegal migration and human trafficking, unauthorized production and trafficking of intoxicating drugs, arms trafficking and human beings and other serious criminal offences that endanger personal and collective security in the territory of one or other signatories. The co-operation of Serbian and German authorities in the security sector also speaks of mutual respect for the human, human and technical potentials that the two countries have, which can ensure a high level of prevention of the conduct of the crimes covered by the agreement, but guarantees efficiency in countering all types of crime and lighting of criminal offences, serious and organised crime. This agreement is extremely important for the synchronised and organised fight against all forms of crime on European soil, because today, unfortunately, crime and criminals do not know about borders, they are organised and linked at international level and threaten everyone. This is particularly true of terrorism, arms trafficking and narcotics, human trafficking and illegal migration, cyber crime. The specific value of this Agreement is co-operation in cases where criminal acts are committed or such actions are being prepared in the territory of a State by a Contracting Party. There are indications that these actions may also apply to the state territory of the other Party or may pose a threat to its security. The agreement very detailedly elaborated all forms of criminal, or criminal acts and all forms of co-operation between Serbia and Germany not to this plan, so this agreement is to be confirmed today because of its multiple importance for the security of both signatories. The third security agreement is in fact an amendment to the previously ratified agreement signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation. The amendment to the existing agreement with the Republic of Bulgaria concerns solving the problems and difficulties facing both state police officers in implementing the provisions of the agreement relating to the mixed patrol chapter. The agreement stipulates that police officers involved in the work of mixed patrols must cross the border exclusively through official border crossings, and that the patrol places themselves are up to 50 km from the nearest border crossing, making it significantly more difficult to control borders and illegal crossings and reducing the effect of joint actions. In order to remove the problem, our two countries agreed to amend the part of the ratified agreement by obtaining a new legal basis for the more effective work of joint police patrols of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria. It is an amendment that will allow the police patrol of one of the signatories to move to neighbouring territory except through official border crossings and places outside the official border crossings set out in the monthly work schedules of mixed patrols to be adopted in accordance with the agreement. In this way, greater coverage of the border would be achieved and increased the efficiency of joint patrols, which should have an even more effective fight against international crime for the final outcome. I find these agreements extremely useful for improving the fight against international organised crime, which is a serious threat to world peace, and for these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group will support these bilateral agreements in the voting day, as well as others in this search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14543	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milovan Bojic. Milovan Bojic is not here. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14544	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, I still don't understand why the Assembly is ignoring everything that's going on in public, and on the agenda are things that may have waited and which may have been able to come to the agenda at any other time, but in any case in each of these agreements and in any topic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14545	I'm sorry, MP, I made a big mistake. I apologize to you, but you're not up yet. Alexandra Jerkov has entered your post and you must now wait until you are 12. That's a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14546	No problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14547	The word has the People's MP Ana Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14548	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected chairman, ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, face today a series of laws relating to international agreements in the area of social protection, in the area of environmental protection, in the area of security, in the area of trade. First of all, it is important to point out that what is common to them is a healthy and serious relationship, an external-political relationship that our country has towards countries in the environment, not only in the environment, but in all countries of the world. If we look back on the Kathra Agreement, which is about mutually encouraging investment, we will agree that each such agreement is one step further in our country's development. Yesterday and today, we had the opportunity to hear that there will certainly be no reciprocity in investment and that we will certainly invest less there than those in Serbia. If we look at a bigger picture, the truth is that these figures may not match, but if we look at a wider picture of what they are avoiding to say, and what we all see is a visible growth in the economy, a visible growth in investment and a visible decrease in unemployment. We heard yesterday and Minister Vulin about the social security agreement. It will be signed with Romania, signed with the Russian Federation. The initiative is planned for Spain, Azerbaijan, Belarus, China, Italy and Poland. This government is really investing huge resources in the social protection of its citizens. Then, an agreement with the government of the Federal Republic of Germany with the MUP, discussed yesterday by Minister Stefanovic, and particularly stressed the importance of European integration when we talk about this agreement. This wide-ranging diapazon of the countries our country is working with has great co-operation. He put some of them in an awkward position. He put them in, as they would say, unprotected grapes. Why? Because we've always had some countries, some parties that are divided into Russian, American, German, East and West. Today we have a very different situation precisely because this government and our prime minister, the future president of Serbia, is working with both the east and the west, co-operating with the EU, with America, co-operating with all parts of the world. Words have gone into action, actions have gone into results, and that's why everywhere in the world prices us, and these results can't really disprove the chair, and that's why those who are used to doing it today are dissatisfied. I have to look back at yesterday's remarks, a little mockery of former regime MPs who says we're opening pedestrian crossings. Since it was the leadership of the Leader, I'm with the Leader, I just have to comment on it. It is true that a pedestrian crossing is being opened and it is true that the plumbing and sewerage are finally implemented in the pedestal settlements, that the schools are open, that kindergartens are open. It is true that we care about the safety of our children in every part of Serbia. When we talk about the MUP, the MUP is here to protect. The Home Office is protecting our children and this agreement will definitely affect the safety of children. Just because of this remarks about pedestrian crossings, I would stress one investment of the former regime in the municipality of Voždovac, which is talking about how they took care of the safety of children, and just when we talk about it, it is 350,000 euros invested in "The Watch Tower" on Vozdovac, a non-secure facility, without a location permit, without a building permit, on a foreign land that is never opened, which is all the time unsecured and for which the funds had to be allocated last year in order to bring it down. So much for their projects. I would now return to these international agreements. I'd like to point out that just because they're being held together, the picture of us in the world is completely different. I don't want to disappoint anyone, you can't work out of a chair anymore. Our prime minister and future president is working in the field. That's why he's every day and in Serbia's villages, but he's in Washington, Moscow, and at Merkel's. Elections don't win in the field, they get heard in the field, I wanted to say by buying votes, as some say here, they get to listen to the needs of citizens, they get to solve their problems. That's what our Prime Minister Alexander Vukic does. That is why we will vote in favour of these agreements, precisely because we are voting here on behalf of the people, and the people clearly said 55%, 2 April, and more than 70% to 2 weeks later in the presidential elections. Whoever loses has the right to be angry, but it's important that everything we adopt today and the future policy of the government be won by the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14549	Thank you. MP Dejan Šulkic is not here. Marjana Maraš isn't here. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14550	Thank you. As I said at the beginning, I think it's very strange that parliament is discussing this agenda that we could leave behind for a few weeks, for example. Later, but in any case, it is not good for the Serbian Parliament to ignore all that is happening on the streets of Serbia. I'm sorry that a lot of people don't see it and that a lot of people are muttering and thinking it's all one ugly dream to get out of, but trust me, it won't. Serbia has become an ugly dream. But in each of these agreements that are on the agenda, we can come at least one thing that makes today's dissatisfaction with the people and citizenship so much that it absolutely leaves it without any legitimacy to the SNS authorities in this country. When you only mention one of the agreements on the agenda, which is a mutual investment agreement, and it is Qatar, with Serbia. I think that, no, it can't be... Can you calm the gentlemen across the street? President of the Assembly, I apologize, could you please calm your colleagues down?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14551	Ambassador, be kind and let the MP Bozovic say something about an agreement with Qatar, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14552	What concerns me is the name of a mutual investment. We have had mutual investment so far, and these investments are quite such that they are paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not by those privileged countries, in this case the UAE, here is Qatar. So will this mutual investment cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose salaries have been reduced and pensions, as well as the following ways that we will have a joint venture or maybe some special law, a Lex specialis, by which someone will come into our country, get all the free, land, municipal equipment of that land, and on the other hand, find investment from the pockets of the poor citizens by having a joint venture, where Serbia owns only 32%, and Eagle Hills 68%, although Serbia invests billions of euros indirectly or directly, and Eagle Hills invests only 150m euros in the joint loan? Are we going to get into a situation where again and for God knows which time we put ourselves in a position to make that contract, for example? We can't even break up? And you know for a fact that this contract cannot be broken. If an unfavourable contract for Serbian citizens were to be broken, it would again be paid by Serbian citizens. 100,000 euros is estimated to be worth every job opened in the area of the Sava amphitheatre, i.e. "Biograda on Water". With 150m euros in investment by our citizens, we have a few workers there who have a salary of 25 000 dinars and who are doing the most difficult jobs possible. What kind of agreement is that, and what are the privileged states in question if they're just exploiting our workers, making slaves out of them, we're paying their wages, we're paying their squares to buy again tomorrow some tycoons, some restaurant owners, a bar? There is a shopping mall, all called a common broader, general, civil interest, and none of the citizens will have any of that except that they may pay for a 700 dinar ticket for some cinema that will be opened, private, of course, in that area. I think it's not a bad agreement, I don't think such agreements should be a topic or debate in this assembly anymore. Commonly, for example. It happened when it came to experience so far, you have a collapse in the Savamala, which is not a product, it just occurred to someone that someone had come and brought something down, but it was also the subject of a contract, that if Serbia had one's private houses, one's private shops, someone's private warehouses would not knock down or move off the face of the country, they would pay even the penalty, under the contract to build a "Begrad on Water". Zorana Mihajlovic, the minister, signed it. She knows very well what she signed. He also knows Mr. Vukic, so he did not sign the contract, but rather let Zorana Mihajlovic sign the contract. But anyway, when someone's gonna be responsible for that crime. If we come into a situation right now to say, wait, wait, wait, people, we're paying someone's private squares with our money, so is that normal? It's not normal. Are we going to break that contract? Let's break it up. Well, he can't. To break that contract, you have to go to arbitration, which is in Vienna, which can tell you tomorrow – no problem, Serbia should break the contract, pay another three billion euros to this privileged partner. Well, if that's how Qatar invests in Serbia, our money, what will Serbia look like? Em will be poorer, em will be more robbed than it is today, em will be workers much bigger slaves than they are today and then we will enter into a vicious circle that you can no longer get out of. "Albahra," when we talked about this type of investment, but yet you're still here in charge of the area, we didn't have to argue with you today whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, whether it worked or not. You are one of the ministers I consider to be more polite, because you are sitting in this assembly, respecting the MPs, and we can exchange a word unlike your colleagues, but on the other hand, it's a completely wrong policy for you. You can't, as Prime Minister or as Government, promise a billion-euro investment for Albahra and say, they'll definitely happen, and let's give them some land now, so they'll invest it, so there'll be a drop-by- drop system, and then there'll be agricultural development, so there'll be some exports, and there's absolutely nothing. Then the ethics of responsibility is to forget everything. But citizens pay all that, and every mistake this government makes they pay out of their pocket. So we're paying out of our budget. Our budget has been collected by the budgets of the impoverished citizens. When we pay such poor government decisions from that hollow and poor budget, then it is questionable whether you are aware of what and what policy you are leading, whether it is devastating or not for the future of Serbia, and on the other hand, you have protests for people who have a problem with everything. It bothers them that they have to watch a cover-up view of the river just to buy an apartment there of 3,500 thousand euros per square cent. You know who can buy it today, Karic, Miskovic, a few of them, can't buy the citizens, now they can afford it. We were saying -- let's make this space something common, so let's make some big Google Park where the IT sector is going to experience some boom, so there's some of our young people, some kids who are out of work. So we've proposed a law on youth employment, so let's put some start-up loans there, and we'll spend half the money, and we'll make a boom IT in Serbia, which is going to export in unprecedented quantities, to hire young people coming out of Serbia today. No, I don't. The answer was – better there to let a tycoon build a hotel, a shopping mall and a bar, than Serbia will have no idea what use. He won't, believe me. And these agreements that go through this Assembly, you can vote, that's what we've said a thousand times, that the country is a flat panel, but once you get into these bad contracts, constantly, when you get in, how can I say, on the wrong train, every station is wrong. You can never go back. These are harmful contracts that make Serbia an unfavourable country, but a slave nation that can no longer repay what some are in debt to benefit even financially. I'm not saying you have it, but I think there's a narrow circle of people who are close to the SNS and who are constantly getting rich in these five years and we can't see the end of it. For this reason, I think it is very important that every MP, who cares about citizens, rise up and oppose such a policy. I mean, I deeply believe, actually, that you know that, too, but of course you're part of a political mile that has an interest, first of all, in financial nature to provide a small circle of people with an ever greater and greater wealth. Of course we will vote against, and of course we will always put those things on the agenda that citizens are protesting all over Serbia's cities and municipalities, because we think this is the essence that this Assembly and this parliament are about to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14553	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14554	Both yesterday and today, Madam President, a number of SNS lies have been told about Alexander Vukic. Today they were said by a gentleman who is a student. Now I'm going to show you a picture of that student. Here it is, Balša Bozovic is a student, Srdjan Dragojevic is a student, this Miljus from Vuk Jeremic headquarters, all students. To avoid any confusion over who organises these protests and who are the political organisers of these protests, I will read to you the email sent by DS headquarters on 6 April 2017 at 15.00 hours. He says: "Respected, or respected, there has been a change in the organisation of going for a victory walk in Belgrade. Please be in front of the city board of DS Belgrade, Terrace 3, at 5:30. Please confirm your arrival. Hello. DS Central. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” These are spontaneous, student, youthful, non-political protests involving all students themselves: Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Jesic, Bojan Pajtic, Borko Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic, sons of former ministers, current MPs. These are all students who have spontaneously gathered. What is very important, Mr. Risticevic, is that they are protesting under a transparent one that says "Elita is looking forward to, the people are starving". I appeal to you from the Ministry of Agriculture...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14555	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14556	I'm done. ... To raise a fund to fund food for hungry Sutanovac, Jesic, Pajtic, Balša Bozovic, so that people are not hungry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14557	Thank you. Minister, you wanted a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14558	Dear Chairman, I wanted to say a few things. It's the absolute democratic right of anyone to be unsatisfactory. That's right, and no one can deny it, and I can understand it all, but I can't understand that when you step on Brankov's bridge or on Gazel, it's completely irrelevant, a few years ago and today, that you don't see the difference. I cross that bridge every day. Since you're crossing, you probably see everything, maybe better than me, but you can see a clear difference between the jungle that existed today and the state of things. The jungles I mean in terms of objects that were down, devastated, where no longer knew who was drinking who was paying and the space you could pass now. The story of taking care of space is the story of a quality space where people live which is one of the most qualitative, most elite in Belgrade's space. The story of urbanism is the story of how you want to live quality and how much you want the space you live in to look good. That's what I think you should have known all these years through your activity in the City Hall. The story of space isn't just a story of whether we're gonna hire this many or so people. It is an important story, but it has a much bigger dimension. Anyone today who looks at that space on the left hand side of Gazela or on the right, when you go from the direction of Brank's bridge can make sure that this space is far more quality, but what's a fact too, time also brings its best judgment on everything. It's time he shows, and it's a very close future, about how much that space has come to life, how much it has come to life, thanks to the investments that have happened. There's one more thing I want to tell you, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. The story of this particular agreement, about what would happen if it were, whether it was going to happen or not, whether someone had a last intention or a forward intention, I don't want to get into it, this is just a legal framework and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14559	Ambassador Kiric, I didn't understand what you were asking me. (Goran Ciric: How much time is left? One second. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14560	Thank you. So, Mr. Martinovic tried in a very ugly way to degrade all those dissatisfied people. So it's a completely fake e-mail that he read because DS isn't at the address of Terrace 3. So that's not what I want to comment on. This isn't a DS protest. The Democratic Party is not protesting. She is fighting in institutions and believes that, as long as there is one MP who will oppose Alexander Vukic's unanimity in the Assembly and who will not allow parliament to be in the pocket of Alexander Vukic, it is worth fighting for and it is worth keeping these institutions here. On the other hand, this is only a protest of young people and no one else, those who are humiliated, those who do not see their future in Serbia. That's why no one gets involved in it. Of course they have the right to rebel. Of course they're right because this is their country. This isn't your country. This is their land. They need to say what they're going to be like and make it their own way. In that sense, they have full support from us, and here I am personally. When it comes to "Belgrade on Water", I would tell Minister Nedimovic, there are no architects, no urbanists in Serbia, in a region which is an architectural and urban freak and told her that something that brings any benefit to Belgrade. Perhaps most of the colleagues across the street have not even heard who Ranko Radovic is, but he is one of the greatest architects and urbanists of his time, internationally recognized and very great artist, who came and said that everything is ethics, everything is a matter of ethics in Belgrade, and if you are humiliating the identity of the city, it is also a matter of your ethics. If you humiliate the spirit of Belgrade, it's a matter of ethics. If you're trying to change the cultural heritage that's guaranteed by the Constitution, that's also a matter of ethics. I don't think you know about ethics and that's what your biggest problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14561	I'll get involved in the discussion about cultural heritage, but let's not spread any further. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14562	Mrs. Gojkovic, I've always been precise. In the e-mail that sent DS to its members stands well – please be in front of the city board. So, in front of the city board, I know your city board is on the terraces, DS, Belgrade, Terrace 3, at 5:30. So you're the organizers of these protests and I totally understand why so few people are on the streets. Because they are being organised by a small, insignificant party that means nothing in Serbia's political life. More votes can be provided here in the Assembly for some proposals, for additions to the agenda, than you can win at individual polling stations. Do I have to tell you that your candidates won one, two, five votes at individual polling stations? As for this hypocrite, and to say top political Phariseeism, how are you DS concerned about the hungry in Serbia, just tell me, is Dragan Sutanovac hungry? Is Bojan Pittice hungry? Are you, Balša Bozovic, hungry? You who talk about "Belgrade on Water", and your fiancée sells apartments in "Belgrade on Water", earn hundreds of thousands of euros on "Belgrade on Water", and you say the projects "Belgrade on Water" are bad. How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14563	If we can't have a private life.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14564	Dragan Sutanovac, a man builds a building on the pasture, on Vracar, and he is hungry. I invite these students, these Protestants, to take a little walk in Belgrade, to visit the properties owned by Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Zivkovic, etc., to see where these poor, hungry people live, unhappy, which was ruined by Aleksandar Vukic, etc. Have a little walk out of downtown Belgrade, a little further away from the National Assembly, a little look at these magnificent buildings, let them see where Mr. Boris Tadic lives, let them see where Vuk Jeremic lives, let them see where the Jesic brothers live, the properties from Indjija, and to Novi Sad to Vienna.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14565	Ambassador, please, it's been a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14566	And now Goran Jesic is hungry, if he is hungry, Mr Nedimovic, let us help the man not to be hungry anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14567	Say, "Rivilty of the Rules of Procedure," Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you have violated the Rules of Procedure because Mr Balsa Bozovic claimed that only young people participated in the protests. This severely disrupted the dignity of the National Assembly, said young students. I believe he's a young man, but I don't believe you believe him. This is him in the protests, no matter how hard he tried to be young, no matter how long he studied, no matter how much he studied combined, he's not a student. This second, from Cačka, who raised the elementary school in Cačka, is also not a student, it's about Bosca Pernato. Mr. Lazovic, leader, "We don't strangle Belgrade", is also not a student, is a bit rustic, has been torn up, etc., I don't blame him, but he's certainly not a student. Borko Stefanovic, a taxi driver, is likely on his way to see what streets are capable of taxing. As I recall in the election campaign, he was driving a cab, I believe he's doing it outside election campaigns. They probably stopped him from taking a cab, but he's certainly not a student. Otherwise, he advocates social rights for 400,000 people while he was in power fired them, and now he abuses and exploits their troubles. This is Draža Petrovic, one of the organizers by me, editor of the daily "Today", and he is probably protesting, but the student is not that we all have to read "Today". This is again Bosko Obradovic, who convinces primary school and secondary school in Cačka that they should raise protests. This is a student who has studied for 12 years, has missed three years until retirement, his name is Goran Jesic, and he is certainly not a student.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14569	Thank you, Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14570	And just in the end, these are "women in black," certainly not students.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14571	Ambassador, which member did you say? (Marjan Risticevic: Article 107) Article 107? I don't really see my responsibility in that. I've told you a few times, I don't know what anyone's gonna say, and I can't verify the truth of the quote. (Marjan Risticevic: It's okay. ) In public, it seems like I'm constantly breaking some Rules of Procedure, something I'm not holding on to because MPs do whatever they want. Yesterday you asked to vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I did not commit. I hope you won't today. (Marjan Risticevic: I am not looking today.) I don't want to affect you, but. (Marjan Risticevic: No. No, right? You're not looking. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14572	President, thank you. I suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. You are otherwise known as very patient, and with great patience, you perform against many MPs, but I must warn you of one thing. In fact, an opposition MP, speaking briefly, said that Serbian workers working in Belgrade today are slaves to work in the slave system, told us God knows everything about ethics, but here's a clean comparison. Minister Nedimovic has already said a few things about "Belgrade on Water", I am not a resident of Belgrade, but I know very well what is at the place of "Beograd on Water" existed before what is now. Indeed, something that made Belgrade ugly and was a mockery, surely, of the capital. But if we're going to talk about ethics and construction, about morality, I'm going to just point you out, since I'm a resident from northern Serbia, from Vojvodina, to compare Belgrade on water, people working there today, what is being built there today, with what his colleagues and those who haven't come to work since August, were building in Vojvodina, the Hetherland Castle. Now that's a matter of morality, that's an ethics question, if we're going to talk about ethics. We build "Belgrade on Water", people in "Belgrade on Water" now work and are not slaves. I won't allow us to insult Serbian workers from this distinguished House, and think of what Hetherland is. The castle in Vojvodina, near Vienna, which was intended to accommodate children distracted in development, a million and a half euros of embezzlement, so compare and see what ethics is, and what is the MP of the opposition talking about today. That's it, thank you. I'm not asking you to vote on hurting the Rules of Procedure on Voting Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14573	You used Article 107, as well as Marjan Risticevic, I really respect the dignity of the National Assembly and I certainly respect it, but I cannot know who will say what it will say and what controversy it will cause and reactions. All of this is erased, because we're gonna end this thing that has nothing to do with... (Balsa Bozovic: Authorised representative, Gordana Komic, replica. ) The Republic has nothing, if the President of Parliament takes advantage of his right, esteemed colleagues, to decide whether there are elements for further replicas or not. I hear it more than once. [[Balsa Bozovic: She asked for Gordana Komic's replica.]] Yubinko Rakonjac, come in. In position three, I think we've jumped off topic and we're going to end up with replicas and injuries to the Businessmen. Yubinko Rakonjac, is he there?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14574	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Minister, today I will talk about the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the European Forest Institute. My esteemed colleague, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic, spoke in detail about this and said the essence and importance of the European Forest Institute, and I will talk about those aspects in which I have directly participated since the beginning of the work of the European Forest Institute in these areas, in the space of the Western Balkans and Southeast Europe. I don't think there was any reason not to adopt this law and confirm this Convention on the European Forest Institute, because this had to happen significantly earlier in 2003, when the EFI actually came to the Western Balkans area. The European Forest Institute is an international organisation, normally, in the area of forestry, which was founded in 1993 in the Finnish town of Joens, Karelia Region, with the aim of improving research in the area of forestry. The founding act was signed on 9 September 1993 by 14 representatives of educated and research organisations from ten European countries, namely: the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Sweden, Great Britain and Finland. The purpose of this Institute is to undertake research at pan-European level in the field of forestry policy, including its environmental aspects, ecology. The European Forest Institute, 20 years later in 2013, gathered about 30 international educational and scientific research organisations, as well as representatives of the association of private forest owners and enterprises in the field of forestry and environmental protection. Members of the European Forest Institute are also representatives from 36 countries, including the United States, Japan, China and Canada. The Internationalisation of the European Forest Institute began in 1998 at the Fifth Annual Conference, held at Zvolen in Slovakia. The principles of the ‘EFI Convention’ have been defined in the coming years. The convention came into force on 28 August 2003, and the European Forest Institute is becoming an international organisation founded by European states. Serbia, or the then state union of Serbia-Montenegro, signed an Agreement on the Accession of the Convention on 27 November 2003. To become a full member of the European Forest Institute, we need to ratify this Convention. I think it should have been done a lot earlier, right after 2003, and there was time for that. I will talk about the importance and impact of the European Forest Institute on these areas and its contribution to the Western Balkan and Southeast European countries, as it has been present since 2003, with numerous projects. One of the most important projects is the FOPER Project, from the field of forest policy and economics. In fact, it was a study programme that took place at the University of Sarajevo and the Faculty of Forests in Belgrade and courses were organised in a way that existing lecturers at forest colleges, together with prominent international lecturers, took part in the teaching process. So far, the 45 students from the Western Balkan countries have completed their master's programme, 2008, 2009 and earlier, in 2007 and 2008, and he made one progress, that he participated in the formation of doctoral studies until 2013. The European Forest Institute gathers its members and has several regional project centres, such as: Bordeaux and Nancy in France, Barcelona in Spain, Frayburg in Germany, Ulma in Sweden, Vienna, Austria, Petersburg in Russia, Cirhe in Switzerland and all of these centres on one joint "Kos Cab" project took part in the realisation of projects in the field of forestry policy and economics. In this direction, the Western Balkan forestry institutions also established a regional centre of the European Forest Institute in 2008. The founding assembly was in Varazdin, where EFISEK, the regional office of the European Forest Institute for the Western Balkan Countries, was formed, and then a contract was signed on the establishment of a regional scientific journal for research in the SIFOR area. I would like to point out, I cannot stress, the contribution of many people who participated in the establishment of the regional office, it is Dr. Miroslav Benko, Dr. Radovan Nevenic, Prof. Dr. Mersudin Ardibegović, Prof. Dr. Dijana Vuletić, Prof. Dr. Zoran Govedar, Prof. Dr. Anton Kadović, Prof. Dr. Mira Medarevic, Dr. LJubinko Rakonjac, Prof. Dr. Kole Kolevski, Dr. Miso Angelović and Dr. Hajri Haska. The EFI Convention has been ratified by 26 member states and is based on forest decisions taken at the United Nations Conference on the Environment and Development, which took place in 1992 and the proposal for action by the Intergovernmental Panel on Forests and Forest Forums, as well as an extended programme of forest biodiversity work. I must point out that the EFI is not only a scientific organisation, but has a connotation and political significance, especially the European Union, or the European Commission. The importance of the EFI Institute is primarily reflected in the organisation and gathering of a large number of researchers, scientists with several continents, who work together on large projects in the area of forestry and environmental protection. I am pleased to point out that the Republic of Serbia has been very active in the European Forest Institute and our three institutions from Serbia – the Faculty of Foresting, the Institute of Foresting and the Institute of Lower Forestry have been involved since the beginning in the projects of the European Forest Institute. The researchers of the Republic of Serbia and are now participating in numerous projects, with observed results. As a result, the EFI has success in this regard, because a large number of countries are represented, and what is echoed in the political sense as well. The EFI Institute has a permanent representative in the European Commission in Brussels, so it also has an impact on the developments in the area of forestry and environmental protection. I would also like to say a little bit about the importance of the EFI, although my dear colleague mentioned it in the opening statement. Namely, the EFI Convention has multiple benefits for the Signatory country, because, in addition to the scientific co-operation that already takes place among scientists of a larger number of countries, the future and co-operation between the ministries of those countries, as well as support for the scientific functioning and the EFI by its application in scientific projects in European scientific funds, it is with its international partners, the countries signatories of the Convention, and in this case we are, and this is a particularly important approach to co-operation between countries in transition and co-operation and participation in scientific projects, as I have just pointed out – the FOPER project. We hope that the EFI in these areas, in the Western Balkans of Southeast Europe, will have more important projects. The adoption of this convention as a law is of great importance to Serbia, so that we, the SPS Group of MPs and the Green Serbia, who are in it, will vote in the voting day for the adoption of these laws on conventions and international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14575	Thank you. The People's MP Jovo Ostojić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14576	I was surprised because we don't have the order, but you'll probably accept it. I'm going to talk about climate change, about a proposal for this from Kyoto, but I've listened to speakers here and I've listened very carefully. I hope they listen to me, too. Stop my time. Please stop my time. I don't want to talk while there's people here who don't listen. When they talk, I listen carefully. If they behave this undisciplinedly, please take away my word and let them speak for me. I listen to Rističević speaking, Martinovic speaking, his colleagues speaking, and now that I have answered the word, they take the word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14578	If you don't stop it, this speech of mine will take hours. I'm not gonna hang up. If I respect every gentleman here on my right and my left, I'm asking them to do the same. Who did I throw something at or speak out loud to while you were talking? Let's get somebody up. Come on, be people. As Patriarch Paul says - let's be human. You're dealing with some things that don't suit you in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14579	Mr. Ostović, we understand. Please, let's get back to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14580	I'll talk, I can say, it's more of an ecosystem, and it's mixed with each other. The climate is changing on the ground. We listen to speakers here that we do not participate, but we make our contribution, that we are a small country and that we do not affect climate change. But there's something else. There's a fact that over our land, planes that spill poison and ash, that destroy our fields, our crops, and pollute the climate here where we live. On one occasion I asked the question – who signed that our sky is flying airplanes and doing it? I got an answer that it's from the plane leaving a trace of kerosene. Does anyone really think that when we all know it's electric, when we all know, when a new disease appears, especially in children three to five years old, what is the effect of air poison? Do you know that today a child must not drink milk as it once did when a mother milks a cow until it is cooked? Are you familiar with that? And why is that? Now let's ask why? You mean from pesticides watering in fields? No, I don't. Right out of the air, spilling poison and ash. In America 31,872 tons of lead waste, 32,960 tons of aluminium waste, is burned monthly, not to mention. It's packed in barrels and spilled. It spills on us, in our fields, in our citizens. We breathe it every day. On the eve of the Big Thursday, don't tell me you haven't seen, our sky has been charmed by various poisons and ash. Look at these CDs. On this CD live, the sky was recorded above Somboro, Novi Sad, Belgrade, our larger cities in the same day and they are here on this CD. We can re-record it, so we'll let you see how it poisons the girls from those planes. Did you know that 15 days ago, a German plane, when it spilled ash and poison, landed at the airport, and forgot to shut down and almost poisoned all passengers there? That's what you saw on TV, if you follow. But there's something else. The Serbian Radical Party, its MPs, has the original recording, I know that it is unique in Serbia and that there is none, and probably in the Balkans and beyond, where ashes are seen to fly. So don't get anybody up here right now and tell me that's not true. Please, this is recorded on the flat mountain and it's a game of the case. They threw all day of ashes and poisons, and then people stood and took pictures, and when only my friend Dragan Dedic and I came home, who we filmed, he was shooting, we noticed the ash falling, in these stains, meaning, in this size, in the shade of a cabin shot as it simply pours and pours. I'm asking a question and I'm asking why we're here now discussing how we don't pollute the air, and I'm very glad, but what are we letting others do this to us? Why does the Republic of Serbia allow planes to fly full of poison and ash and pollute our citizens and our fields? Do you know that black smelt completely disappears from Serbia? Here's a place for you, Ralja, not far from Belgrade, so why don't you find one that hasn't been poisoned? Why don't you take a look? You have here in the woods. Do you know what happens to our forests? Our woods are disappearing. Does anyone wonder why? Why are the forests in Serbia disappearing? Why does a certain kind of tree completely disappear? Well, it disappears because of this air poisoning with the planes. Please, can you once tell the public, that's what the SRS is asking, who signed that these planes fly through our airspace, and who signed that so willingly spread out of the air poisons all over us? Who signed it, who approved it? You have to answer once, I'm asking for a second time. You'll have to answer to this people eventually, that we have poisoned food for cattle, and then we use the same food, meat, meat products, so I don't count. I'm asking a question again, if anyone might not have heard correctly. Who signed it and who approved that those drones with poison and ash fly our skies and poison us and kill us? Look how much you have when you go to the hospital, everyone's sick on their lungs, lung cancer. From what? What are they breathing in? I ask what they breathe when they throw poisons from above? Look to the sun when it happens, you'll see a lot more than you're looking down. Thank you for listening to me. I hope we understand each other and that the SRS will get an answer, and I'm making one promise. As of tomorrow, and tonight, all the media will release the original footage of the ash falling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14581	I thank you, Mr. Stable. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. She's not present. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. He's not there. Natasa Mihajlović Vacic has the word. You're giving up? Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. You're giving up? Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14582	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I will only talk about one law and this bill on the signing of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on co-operation in the fields of culture, education, science, sports and youth. Allow at the outset, Mr Vice-President, to say that this bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Czech Republic on co-operation in the fields of culture, education, science, youth and sport also has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, whom he presented to us, the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this high house on 9 August 2016. The exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the most comprehensive, most concrete, biggest and best of all previous 73 exposés of the Serbian government, starting with the first prime minister of the modern Serbian government, Prote Mateje Nenadovic, in 1805. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I also remind you, gentlemen of the People's MPs, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in particular, and particularly to journalists, Mr Kesic and Mr Ivanovic, that the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, I quote in a prestigious international magazine on the "Si Mago" list of prestigious international magazines. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in Serbia's modern history, one exposé of a Serbian Prime Minister, I quote in a prestigious international magazine. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the 69th exhibition page, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, said, quote -- Serbia as a cultural centre for Serbian, Slavic, Balkan and European traditions, art and culture of windows are facing the world and the international public and co-operation, finished a quote. Therefore, this Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Czech Republic on Co-operation in the Area of Culture, Education, Science and Youth and Sports is based on the Agreements signed by the two friendly countries, the Governments of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 29 December 2016. The bill creates a legal framework for the implementation of bilateral co-operation in several areas, in the field of education, in the fields of science, in the fields of culture, youth and sport, between the two countries, therefore, between the Republic of the Czech Republic and the Republic of Serbia. The two countries of Serbia and the Czech Republic have traditional co-operation in many areas of life, not only in the fields of culture and sports, but also in economic co-operation. The economic co-operation between Serbia and the Czech Republic dates, believe it or not, back in the Middle Ages, established by Serbian Emperor Dusan Silni and Czech King Carlo IV. In Serbia, however, the Czechs have been increasingly present since the 18th century. The first permanently populated Czech in Serbia was Dr Maynert, who came to Serbia in 1836, and ladies and gentlemen, self-initiatively. Just then, in Serbia, he was harassing the cholera that he successfully suppressed, which is why this people must be grateful to the Czech government. Dr. Meinert was the first commander of the Kragujeva sanity and chief of Belgrade's sanity. He opened the door to other learned Czechs who inhabited Serbia in the second half of the 19th century. In addition to many Czechs, I mention Alexander Fantishik Zah, the great panslavist and military strategist. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, based on his plan, Serbia's Slavic policy plan, Ilija Garashanin wrote the famous "Source". General Zah was founded also by our military school and was the first Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army. Captain Mouse's Building, today's University of Belgrade recession, is the work of Czech architect Jan Nevole. The Czech family of Bajloni built a craft empire in Belgrade, and Jovan Masin, the first secretary of the Draga Masin sinking, also participated in the establishment of the Serbian Doctor's Society. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the Falcon Movement in Serbia has spread thanks to the Czechs, believe it or not. The Czech Republic of Prohaska, the idea maker of Titus's staff, was headed by the Kragujeva and the Sokol parish. In economic terms, the Czech family Fijala contributed significantly to the development of the leather industry. The Fijala family was the progeny of Serbia's modern skin industry. In 1877, she decided to move her skin factory to Serbia and at the invitation of the then Serbian government, the Kragujevac Skin Factory became a recognizable Serbian brand. That is why King Aleksandar Obrenovic in 1893 decorated Fidrich Fiyal with the prestigious Order of the Fourth Order of the Takavi Cross. Also in 1862, Prince Mihajlo Obrenovic sent an official letter to the Czech government to send educated musicians to Serbia, which only had a few amateur singers at the time. So Josif Poporni entered the court of King Milan Obrenovic in 1882 and was the capital of the military garrison. He laid the foundations of music culture in Kragujevac. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we come in our time. At the time of 2000-2012, during the former regime, Serbia was humiliated, frozen, satanized, economic, industrial and infrastructure-devasted, a country with no hope and no future, a country with no international reputation reduced to the lowest point, and even this co-operation between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Serbia. In one word, Serbia was lonely at sea. We had none of the international factors behind us, except for God and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because God gave the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to vote in the elections for SNS and Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Aleksandar Vucic managed to turn the wheel to the right side, stop Serbia from failing with his programme, knowledge, ability and self-absorbed work, taking Serbia out of the mud in which it was dumped by thieves, criminals, politicians, Lezilebovics of the former regime, who today demonstrate the streets of Belgrade, trying to change the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and thus destroy our political system. The citizens have spoken of it. Today, the Serbian economy expects more Czech investment. Our interest is the higher ranking of Serbia's economy on the Czech Republic market, trade in goods and business co-operation between Serbia and the Czech Republic is taking the upstream line. Czech investments in Serbia are currently over 75m euros. Our Prime Minister, future Serbian President, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, said at the opening of Serbia's business forum in the Czech Chamber of Commerce, I quote -- Serbia is a safe country, a stable investment and an investment destination, and we expect even more Czech investment in our country, completed a quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have been listening here for two days from some MPs, especially one of the presidents of a minor political group, I think that this group is called a political door, and their president, to quote Mr. Marijan Rističević, is called a sleazy, a finished quote, which constantly assures us that these agreements are not important for the Republic of Serbia. No wonder a representative of a minor political group says that, because he is famous in this people's home and in the citizens of Serbia only four things. First, what was violently coming down through the chimney of this tall home and from the attic of this high house pressured RIK. Secondly, because he invented a decline in Serbian grammar, pounding all the time when he spoke of the National Assembly cursing the government of the Republic of Serbia and its president. Third, he was an excellent fighter during NATO bombing because he hid in a library between two books as a mouse. So, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of these draft laws on all agreements, and I particularly urge you gentlemen from the opposition benches to at least a little, even in this way, help with your voice the modernisation of Serbia for which it so favors, and not only advocates, ma'am, but also implements our Prime Minister, most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and most of the people's MPs. On that behalf, thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14583	Thank you. National MP Goran Ciric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14584	Article 107 has been injured. The second view says that a session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the MP to another national MP, to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. I think we're witnesses, here's the previous MP, and in the introduction of this session we hear different things. Today, the topic of Kyoto is the agreement, the fight against pollution of the entire planet, and I think that largely here this institution of the Assembly and individual MPs, we have an example of the previous MP, pollutes verbal life in Serbia in the way it affects what is happening on the streets of Serbia. We have the consequence that he spoke and accused today as a former professor raising children in Serbia, one of the presidential candidates for committing the murder of his best friend. Today, we already have the effect of such behaviour in the Assembly, and therefore we advocate the responsibility of every spoken word, because today this same man gets letters of death threats, as everyone in Serbia can get them, and we have witnessed through history that many are targeted and that this is one way that does not contribute to anything good in Serbia. That is why the DS also advocated the empowerment of the institutions of the Republic Assembly, the empowerment of the president and the chairman of the Assembly, because you have to respond to these things. I think all of this is being transferred to the street once in a while, and I think it's necessary to bring order into this assembly. That is why we have tabled a motion for the replacement of the President of the National Assembly, because it has allowed this kind of behavior throughout this term.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14585	Thank you, Mr. Kiriq. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure in any way. Mr Atlagic had one broader context of seeing what was the subject of the assembly session and did not take offense, but was extracting certain quotes from, as I understand it, some previous speeches. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Goran Ciric: Yes. I thank you. Mr. Obradich, you've reached out. What's the basis? You have no basis for replication. [[Bosko Obradovic: Right to Replic.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14586	Thank you, Chairman. A harshly abused member of 103 of the previous speaker who tried to play a lawyer here as an MP. But let me tell you, there is a people’s saying: “Everyone is scratching where he is itchy. ” It is not clear to anyone here why he felt the need to react, but also to insult respected Professor Atlagic by being a polluter, as he said. What's got into him? What's it itchy? What did Mr. Atlagic say about some hiding in mouse holes? Well, yeah, they've been hiding, hiding these days. They hide by trying to abuse students' protests and hiding by refusing to admit that they are the organisers of these protests, which, by the way, have failed completely. That is the essence of what Atlagic said they were hiding. And they should hide in a mouse hole, if they have a little shame and feelings of honor and hide in the mouse holes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14587	Mr. Markovic, you pointed to a violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 103. - The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, in the particular case of the chairman. I don't think I hurt Article 103. Rules of Procedure, and I ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Following the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14588	I'm advocating Article 108, Mr. Chairman. I think you should have acted on this article because calling a fellow polluter of the National Assembly, who is a representative of Serbian citizens, is extremely inappropriate to this home. He is the bearer of the sovereignty of the citizens. You insulted all the citizens who went to the polls and didn't go to the election. I understand that you can say from this pay phone as a former regime that slaves are workers of factories that didn't have a job yesterday, and now they have it, that those who make "Belgrade on Water" are slaves because they are making something that you don't like or are not in your interest, or you can't paint it like you did Belgrade. There's Mr. Nedimovic, we can talk about that too, you say - urban conditions. Why don't you mention the pyramid in the middle of the Louvre? I've never heard of an architect defending himself for that. You think that's funny? I suggest that Mr. Nedimovic give these gentlemen one hectare of farmland, but they make fields, not meadows, but real fields, to see if they know they're digging, if they know they're holding a hook. Do they know that the hook is a semi-auto-auto-agricultural tool, lift it up, and it falls alone? But they have to make sure it doesn't fall on their fingers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14589	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. It is impossible to predict what the MPs will talk about through the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. I gave you, as well as the previous speakers, my word. The basis of the report was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's impossible, I say, to predict, but that's why, among other things, you're here to indicate whether or not a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done. I personally don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure by giving my colleague my word. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) (Bosko Obradovic: Replica! Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14590	Dear Chairman, I would like to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 104(2). - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, the President of the MPs shall have on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. You heard the presentation of fellow Atlagic, who spoke of me personally on several occasions. Of course, he didn't mention my name and that was your reason for me... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14591	Mr. Beard... (Bosko Obradović:...) but he mentioned the name of the parliamentary group. Sir, you have no opportunity to speak for the simple reason why I do not know what you have recognized. Mr Atlagic did not address you directly, he did not mention the name of your parliamentary group. (Bosko Obradovic: Why are you shutting down my microphone? Why are you cutting off my time? No, you have up to two minutes, but since you don't have a reason to answer, then you... (Bosko Obradovic: My parliamentary group is mentioned. No, there was no mention of a parliamentary group and you can see it from a stenogram. (Bosko Obradovic: May I explain that a parliamentary group has been mentioned? ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament of the People Gordana Komic. Here you go. (Bosko Obradovic: Would you like to talk like that? How can you not be ashamed? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14592	Please, Vice President Milicevic, do not violate Article 27 anymore. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges you to take care of the order of the session. The last 15 minutes that take place at the Assembly session are directly your responsibility. And your interpretation of verbal violence and verbal pollution through the violations of the Rules of Procedure and through the texts that MPs say when members of the ruling majority do so, and you do not allow an explanation when speaking to the opposition's representative is proof that you have produced an atmosphere unnecessarily at the National Assembly session. We listened very patiently and listened very carefully until it overtook. Then you added to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and not by applying Article 27, the joy and mockery of people for verbal violence. I'm asking you not to do that. That's why people are on the streets. Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14593	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. You're saying I violated the Rules of Procedure, specifically Article 27. It is interesting that you did not notice this verbal violence just before when Mr. Obradovic very badly addressed himself to me, you did not respond to it. (Bosko Obradovic: Excuse me, what did I say? I thank you, Mr. Radovic. (Bosko Obradovic: Why don't you state what I said? There's no need. You're quite... (Bosko Obradovic: Aren't you ashamed? Here you are again. Thank you, Mr. Radovic. It's just talking about you, not me. (Bosko Obradovic: This speaks of you. We continue to work. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Do you want a word? (No) I thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14594	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to take the opportunity to thank on behalf of the SNS all the citizens of Cačka and Moravika County for the great trust they have shown to our presidential candidate, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14595	Mr. Parezanovic, I said for a moment that I would continue to fully respect Article 27 and please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14596	Of course. I cannot agree with many estimates from the opposition's order that with this agenda the Assembly is only fulfilling its form because a new session is scheduled for tomorrow, where we will have two very serious health laws, and I don't honestly think these agreements are underestimating. Today I'm going to talk about agreements in the field of education and security. There are several, therefore, agreements in the field of education, a concrete Agreement on participation in the Central European University Exchange Programme CEEPUS III, which should allow greater mobility and inter-university co-operation in Central Europe and, what is very important to us, greater opportunity for scholarships for our young people, for young students and PhDs. We also have agreements with the Czech Republic in the fields of education, culture, youth and sports, and I think that they are very important and I can say something about them based on personal experience because the city from which I come, the town of Cačak, has already achieved co-operation with the Czech Republic, specifically with the city of Valaška Mezirici and the Cultural-Art Society "Bača". In the past two years, we've had a lot of cultural and artistic events in co-operation between our two countries. What I can see is that these festivals and everything we had in that period, all of which attracted a lot of attention to our public, especially young people. We will, of course, raise that co-operation in the next period to a much higher level. Of course, that's not all we do in the field of education, so there's no confusion. There is also work on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, just the law that was passed in 2005, which has caused a lot of problems in the field of education, and I certainly will not allow today those who have created these laws to lecture on all the problems we have in higher education. When it comes to security agreements, I think it is very important, therefore, that we have agreements with the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany in the field of fighting organised crime, fighting terrorism, human trafficking, kidnapping, etc. I think that co-operation is very important, especially in difficult cases like we've had recently, when it happens, let's say, some abductions. We had a very rapid reaction from our police, and I think that this cooperation, especially with our neighbouring countries, was very important. We have, therefore, an agreement with the Republic of Bulgaria, which should bring us much more effective work of a mixed border police patrol. When we talk about security, I think that in today's day, when there are indeed great challenges that even the most powerful and richest countries of Europe have struggled hard, that we have managed to achieve peace and stability, good neighbourly relations, even when some neighbours may not have earned it, that we have not shared our citizens, especially by faith, that we have taken care in the same way of developing both the New Sad and Nis and Kruševec, but on the other hand, and the New Market and some other municipalities. Sometimes it seems to me that we have more problems when it comes to security on our internal agenda, after someone, to say, the very irresponsible behavior of individuals. We recently had a statement by presidential candidate Vuk Jeremic, who said it was only a matter of days before a terrorist attack like those in Western Europe will take place in Serbia. I really thought that if someone had such knowledge that it was logical that they would address the competent services and institutions, not that the basic motive would be to be a media star for a few days and to panic among the citizens. We also had one illusion from another presidential candidate, Sasa Jankovic, who said at his pre-election rally that he would personally try to protect Alexander Vukic from the scenario that Nikolaja Ceausescu experienced. Since we know that Ceausescu was shot, I have to ask a question, this is an important matter primarily for safety...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14597	Mr. Parezanovic, come on, please, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14598	Of course. I think I'm in the dark because I'm talking about security. I think it is very important that the citizens know who in Serbia wants to shoot Alexander Vukic, so Jankovic must protect him. I think it's very important, especially when we know Mr. Jankovic has experience with both firearms and murders. So I think we should support these 12 draft laws on agreements and continue to discuss very serious laws tomorrow. Once again, I do not want to agree and accept the comments that this Assembly is not working, especially when we return from 2014 since Alexander Vukic is Prime Minister until today, when we look at the number of working hours, the number of working days, the number of laws we have passed in this Assembly, I think our Assembly is very effective and will continue in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14599	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. He's not there. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. He's not there. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14600	Mr. Chairman, I didn't expect you to be so undemocratic and not to give a word to the only representative of the opposition who at that time had the right to the replica not even today, but to be directly known and mentioned on many occasions. But well, that's all there is to it about the ruling majority's relationship to the opposition. Let's move on. We're used to your arrogant behavior. If I'm Bosko Pernar, then the Wolf is Alexander Blair or Alexander Bill Clinton. It could be Alexander Schroeder, if you prefer. So, what I'm trying to say here, since you've been contesting my presidential election result for days, if Mr. Vulin can be a minister with 0.1% in the electoral body, then I and how I have the right to speak as a Parliament speaker. If the SPS can be in the National Assembly and did not have its presidential candidate, then, Mr. Milicevic, you better think about the problem than censoring the opposition's MPs. As far as the international agreements we've been talking about here for two days, no one in the opposition has ever said that these agreements are pointless and that they're not worth anything. On the contrary, most of us in all our discussions have said that we will support most of these agreements and vote for them. We said something completely different, that these agreements, however important they were, and you showed how important they were by not putting them on the agenda of the National Assembly for months, and then when you put them on the agenda of the spring regular session, then you delayed their adoption for two months, and you showed how much you respected the countries partners you made these agreements with. So, these agreements are not important to you either, and it is clear to all of you that they are not important and it is clear to everyone that you are really just faking and preventing more important topics from being discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, more life-threatening topics, essential topics that today interest citizens of Serbia, which are also all social groups in Serbia or in some kind of strike or in some kind of protest against you: pensioners' unions, educational workers' unions, military unions, police unions, students. All today strike against the SNS and SPS authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14601	Please return to the agenda after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14602	As for specifically two agreements on which I will particularly remain, I think you've started one thing with these agreements, and you've ignored many other things. Here's what it looks like, for example, when it comes to the bill governing the river Tis, which, of course, is the right thing to do and we fully support it and we believe that this agreement is beneficial for Serbia. No matter what we think, I only mentioned yesterday, that we have given foreign companies cheap labour and duty-free imports and the most diverse kinds of other reliefs and subsidies from our country, now we want to give them the cheapest possible transport to their headquarters in the European Union, which is just telling us that you are working here in the interests of foreign companies, not in our domestic economic interest. But you've forgotten one more important thing here that I'd like to draw your attention to, because I think, when you're taking care of the river Tisa, you should pay attention to some of our next proposals, so that actually this sailing on the Tism River would be more successful and more significant for all of us. The example works, in addition to what these agreements mean to cultivate, edit and in any other way clear the banks of rivers in Serbia, and in particular the Tisa River. Clean, for example, the shores of huge waste or thousands of plastic bottles and bags that exist there. Regulate waste water problems, strengthen logistics to monitor traffic, to provide services on water streams. In any other way, to provide ports for this tourism that we also mention on our rivers or so to say, every other kind of environmental protection on the coast and on the waters themselves. For years, nothing has been done on port infrastructure and warehouses. It is necessary to improve and synchronise the water facilities in charge of safety, maintenance of waterways and traffic, fire aid and anything else that is necessary for such agreements to come to life at all, have an effect, make sense and in any other way achieve the result they wish. For example, when it comes to the Tisa River, nothing has been done to make the phenomenon of turning the Tisa better seen and included in the tourist attraction. The old contracts of 1955, which last for a long time, made the Tisa River recognizable by all matters, by industrial, military and tourist content, and especially by its coast, but we did not move further away from what I was talking about, which is the construction of the Tisa River, the coast and the function of what you want to implement with this agreement. The second problem here is the problem related to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Qatar on mutual incentive and protection of investment. Based on an analysis of the Serbian Movement's expert advisers, we have several problems in this agreement. We have too wide and legally incorrectly defined the concept of investment and, contrary to the Investment Act, in the concept of investment so-called "investment". commercial claims. What does that mean exactly? Monetary claims or the right to fulfil obligations under contracts that have economic value, which constitutes an excessively defined commercial claim, which excludes the Investment Act from the concept of investment. This definition contains significant inaccuracies that are not only in line with the positive law of the Republic of Serbia but can thus have as a practical consequence and a problem that certain private persons will be able to sue the state of Serbia on the basis of an incentive and mutual investment protection agreement because you have provided them with such a thing. The second legal problem in this agreement concerns an undefined, again problematicly defined investor concept. In particular, the term investor has been placed too broadly in this agreement, so it includes, in addition to natural and legal persons, profitable and not profitable persons and persons, regardless of the form of ownership, including state agencies, independent funds, trusts and organisations established in accordance with the applicable regulations of the parties to the Contracting Party or by a third party in which the relevant investor exercise effective control. What does that mean? This means that certain third parties who are not part of the Contracting Parties will be able to achieve some of the benefits of this agreement which we consider not to be right either. Of course, we believe that provisions should be introduced on the applicable law, where the law of a party in a dispute is applied to dispute resolution, and whose territory has been invested, including its rules of conflict of law. So what do I want to say? Everything the State of Qatar wanted, you went out to meet her, but you didn't protect our interests in this agreement enough, and that's actually a picture of what we've been telling you all along. As these agreements are not disputed for us, and as most of these agreements except for this in Qatar, we will support them, so neither foreign investment is disputed for us. If someone invests their money in the state of Serbia, but we invest our money from our budget in foreign companies that come here, well, that's controversial for us. You should explain this to the citizens of Serbia why you share our money with foreign companies instead of giving our money to domestic businessmen and farmers. That's the only reason we're arguing, and you're not going to tell the citizens of Serbia the truth, and I argued with the police minister yesterday, and of course I didn't get the right to reply, to explain the essence to him. We are not against foreign investment and foreign investors, but we are against subsidising them from our money, from the taxpayers of this country, instead of investing that money from the budget in domestic economy and agriculture. I think I've explained to you precisely what the difference between your model and our economic model is. We would never share our money with strangers but exclusively with a domestic businessman and a farmer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14603	Thank you, Mr. Obradich. The word has first been made by a representative of the promoter, Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14604	Thank you. For two days now, we have been participating in a congregation debate that we cannot possibly get to hold back on the agreements we have proposed. Sometimes we hear hate, mostly we hear lies. We often hear suggestions and ideas that it would be best for Serbia to be some kind of island that no one should even go through if it is possible for no one to come through. Of course, no one on the side brings any money, no capital, no brains, nothing we have is enough, just to hide behind as many fences as possible, and then it'll be okay. Now we hear it's very dangerous that foreigners go through Tis to get to some of their cities faster or whatever. I don't know, I really can't understand that. As far as we're concerned, since there's been a controversy here about the presidential election, who has how much percent, whether I have zero or five, or ten. I don't know, that'd be a check. Maybe we'll check out already now in the local elections in Vrbas where the Socialist Movement performs on its own, and a party of a certain presidential candidate who has failed to reach even 2.50, failed to collect or sign. We'll see, it'll be seen and not only there, but it's less important, it's very interesting, you know, I apologize to the esteemed MPs for not being able to attend this important debate all the time and for talking among other things to the representatives of the Gossa union. There's a rumor here that everyone's strikein' and protestin' against us. Great, except all those who strike and protest in your imagination voted for Alexander Vukic, two million votes, over two million votes. Is that you protesting? Are those the gathered Protestants? Well, they're not, they won't be like that. And when you talk about the unions of the military and the police, I'll tell you that there are 26 unions in the police force, one is in protest, and everyone else isn't. I could talk about it for so long, but that's how I burden our congregation debate. What's important is that no one has ever made a serious remark about the agreements that we need to conclude, and that's all that matters, what we need to worry about our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14605	Thank you. First, MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica, mentioning the party's president.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14606	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As it usually is, who the sword is barking, from the sword and the gin, and it's going to be that the touch of the political starlet Pernar Dvernar before he began to read explicitly tried to wave a little sword of 2.4%. Anyway, he mentioned everything here and everything before he started reading explicitly. Before he started reading explicitly, he mentioned, for example, international co-operation in this context, both investors and various states, and it seems to me that Shredder. How come fascination with elections and how to fascinate these international aspects more than clearly, is enough for a man to look at this political starlet, to see its results, and everything is more than clear. Two comas something percent, that's another thing to calculate gave. One vote when someone wins, and that's what Pernar Dvernar gets, so how much is that percent, can that be calculated at all. Is there someone who might add that we can see what decimals it is when one vote is received, for example. in Trieste. When you get one vote, for example. And in Topoli, when one vote is received, for example. in Leskovec? What's that score? What percentage is that? And someone who records it can only mention the wrath and torment of Alexander the Wolf, of anger and of torment. And then here he tells us something about investors so he can drive them away, and he couldn't see anything on the subject of any money, if we're talking about money, in these agreements that we're talking about today. Today he is concerned about a serious relationship with agreements, he says – they are not important to us, and immediately in the next sentence he says – and release these agreements, give something that is vital to life. Sam demeans those agreements and their importance. Why? Who does he have any co-operation with? When the whole of Europe supports Alexander Vukic before the elections, when the whole of Europe, after the election, congratulates Alexander Vukic, who approached him, who congratulated him? When before the election, the Russian Federation supports Alexander Vukic, and after the election, who spoke to him and who congratulated him on these phenomenal 2%? The international co-operation he has, in good co-operation with the V.O.S. veterans, I'm sorry, but I absolutely don't count as anything very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14607	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Mr. Obradovic, you will receive your word, but we must respect the order of the elected Members. First of all, to your presentation, the basis for the replica, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14608	I thank you, Chairman. It is an interesting dimension of Mr Obradovic's thinking and interest for the SPS, but we in the SPS tell him that it is better to deal with his ratings, especially post-election, and I will not talk about the choice that is reduced to 2.29%. At the same time, one message, which should be extremely well-intentioned and I hope it will understand it, which is the rhetoric of what is happening in this House, which exudes maladies, with a lot of insult, with a lot of vulgarity, will certainly not improve its political rating, on the contrary. That's what he did before the election, so his rating was valorized by 2.29%. Continuing exactly with the rhetoric he had before, there will be political exhale, which I don't want to say we want him to, but in any case, it's one inevitability. The party and party leader who behave in the way they behave in this parliament, party and party leader who experience political fiasco in their hometown, not fiasco but debacle, cannot expect anything other than what they have received from Serbian citizens, and that is one absolute mistrust in all that is being advocated, in all that is said, in everything that implies more mantra than political ideology, in no case will have any effect other than a further fall. Of course, we in the SPS have no intention of dealing with either such a party or the leader of such a party. We're where we are, and they're where they are, so let them think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14609	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14610	Dear Chairman, do I have the right to one or two replicas, since I sought a replica for Minister Vulin and, of course, a clear replica, by name I was mentioned by Mr Nedja Jovanovic, or how do you interpret it?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14611	I'll make it up to you, just to explain. You have the right to one replica, but in your presentation you have challenged three replicas. I'll shut you down for a moment to give you a chance to speak again, to use two minutes' time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14612	So, unlike the SPS, I went to elections under my name and name, and it is clear exactly how many Serbian citizens directly support me. The SPS avoided being measured in the presidential elections and hid under Alexander Vukic's lap, to whom it has served faithfully for a long period of time. I don't know any honest socialist in Serbia who voted for Alexander Vukic, and everyone knows it very well at the top of the SPS and knows it well in the SNS. The honest Socialists did not vote for Vukic and are seriously opposed to this shut-down of the SPS headed by Ivica Dacic. So much for the SPS. And when you, Mr. Jovanovic, have 25% in your hometown, when you go to elections under your name and win so much in the local elections, then call me. As for Mr. Woolin, it's very important that we clarify the next thing. Mr. Vulin used to be left-handed, once fought for labour rights, sometimes it was important for him not to be cheap labourers in Serbia, sometimes he played left-handed and, of course, the first time he had the opportunity to sell all his left-wing ideals, he sold them very easily and quickly to enter power and get ministerial posts. Since then, Alexander Vulin has been silent about labour rights in Serbia, silenced about social justice, silenced about the robbery of banks that tear the skin from the back of Serbian citizens, kept silent about the robbery of foreign companies that do not pay taxes, Mr Minister, for profit achieved in Serbia, but false bookkeeping data amounts to profits from this country abroad, while you are silent, false left-wing and fraud to all left-wing ideas. It's the truth about ministers in the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14613	Mr. Obradovic, you have now spoken offensively to Minister Alexander Vulin. The first part of the offensive exposure, on which you give yourself the right to share people with honest people and those who are not, but again, it speaks quite enough about you, not about us, you have addressed the SPS and I have deliberately, as you say a little bit undemocratic, but I have democratically let you end it and bring an end to that kind of debate. But I cannot allow you and I do not have the right to address the proposing representatives in this way, specifically the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vulin. I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to address it accordingly through discussion. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14614	Thank you. It's about article 109 that you've now broken, because you've been obliged to warn him about this. What we have heard now is the highlight of cynicism, the peak of the worst insolence, and you have now said very nicely – that you share voters with honest and dishonest ones. They're about to start sharing similar and unsuitable ones. Those who swore allegiance to the heart until yesterday, and today walk with Soroš's exhibits in Belgrade, those who swore allegiance to the state, and then today walk with the worst neoliberal circles, who swore to family values, walk with gay activists. Now, these people are talking to you today about hypocrisy, and I don't know what, those who fought heartily for this country, for the church, for I don't know what, and then today they get advice from a woman who worked for the U.S. government, and that's for their Ministry of Defense, and as such she was sent here to be his advisor, and she's still the vice president of the party. I would really ask you to share people like that, as the previous MP did, to give him a warning, especially when he speaks to ministers in this way. That's not the mark of the Serbian people. I respect his 2% vote, these people voted for him, but he must respect the will of Serbia's majority, which is those 2,012,000 votes that voted for Mr. Vukic. And democracy can't be suspended that way, as he imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14615	Mr. Djukanovic, I think I've explained to you what you were talking about in the previous presentation. It is up to me to ask you a question – do you want the People's Assembly to make a statement in the day of voting about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Djukanovic: No. No, no, no, The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14616	Thank you. I would like to advertise the violation of the 107 member because I think the most severe possible way is to injure the dignity of the National Assembly, the dignity of the citizens of Serbia. As we have heard from previous speakers, someone believes they have the right to divide citizens into honest and dishonest, so I guess the honest ones don't vote for Alexander Vukic, and then the unfair ones vote. I understood it so and it is not the first time that Bosko Obradovic acts in such a way that hate speech and speech offends both the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia. I always wondered why you'd let him do it so much, then I thought it might be a tactics, because the more active Mr. Obradovic is, the more he says, the more he's in the media, the less he has support. We've heard here a great lie and a lie, that he has 25% in his town. That's not true. He won 7% in the town of Cačka and he's an absolute recordr of the election. He managed to lose 9,000 Chacan votes in just a year. So, compared to the 2016 parliamentary elections, he lost 9,000 votes, and that best says what citizens think about hate policy, policy of insult and all that Bosko Obradovic does in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14617	Mr. Parezanovic, you pointed to what Mr. Djukanovic was talking about through article 107. I think I have already given an explanation and indicated that the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must be respected, above all, through discussions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has been made by MPs Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14618	Mr. Chairman, I think you should have acted in accordance with Article 108 and Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, when counterpart Bosko Obradovic, otherwise known among Serbian citizens as a Balkan spy, is what they call him, not me, as the fraud minister of Vulin. I think you had to do it. This is already one step towards losing every sense of the session, and the order that exists at the session is completely disturbed. Now, one more thing, other than the fact that Minister Vulin is a fraud, has been presented with many facts that are false. I don't want to pick it up. Anyone who loses the election and gets 2.4% has the right to be angry. Aleksandar Vukic lost by 0.5% in direct elections from the late Nenad Bogdanovic and acknowledged the election's defeat. The first confessed before Belgrade's mayor announced his results. Gentlemen of the former regime, in order to defeat someone, learn to lose. Maybe one day you'll beat Alexander Wolfie, but until you learn to lose, you'll never be able to beat anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14619	Mr. Arsic, I don't think I've hurt Article 108. I believe that I have responded adequately and, I would point out, a democratic way through the suggestion that the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly must be respected through the presentation of the MPs. If I reacted through sanctions, to what you suggest, it would probably be an opportunity to say that we are violating the right of the opposition to speak in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's not what I wanted. Unfortunately, I cannot predict what the MPs will talk about the moment they point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure or the basis of the reporting is a replica. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? Yeah. I thank you. The word has a proposalor's representative, Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14620	Thank you, Chairman. It is very good that the National Assembly restricted its Rules of Procedure to exposure for two minutes, because if we had listened to the previous speaker, who caused all of this, if it had lasted four or five minutes, he would have started throwing bombs as much as he was excited, he would have set the congregation on fire, called for demonstrations, and I guess he would have found someone to show up with in front of the congregation. If no one else, then at least those kids from Chakotay that he joined, so they politely asked him not to join them anymore, and that it would be better to keep it as low as possible with them, anyway. I don't know what he thinks or what he knows about the left, but I know I don't congratulate anyone on Big Friday, as I know I can go to Hilandar always, and I'm not sure if my distinguished predecessor can go to Hilandar and if there's anyone there who would have let him walk in there at all, but that's another question and I'm not going to go deeper into it. What's left, left is not when you throw false promises, left is not when you say what you can't do, left is when you come in 2012 and take responsibility for managing this country, you find a rate of 23.8% unemployed, and today you have a 13% rate. It's the left. The left hand also is that today, today, in the PIO Fund, you have a higher contribution of 3.4 billion dinars, than is foreseen by the plan, and therefore you can finance social protection, so don't diminish any single rights, and so save anyone who needs help. The left hand side is that all parenting supplements are paid in a day, in a second, unreduced, and count on them to be significantly increased this year. I will defend those laws before you in this congregation. It's the left.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14621	Thank you, Mr. Minister. First we have an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament of the People, Marija Janjušević, and then we allow, of course, the right to the replica. Before you, Mr. Obradovic, we have three to four MPs who have come forward. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14622	Thank you, Chairman. I refer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure - Article 27. You're bound to take care of the order at this session. On many occasions, we had a reference to members who had already been used instead of replicas. I don't think it's right for you to tell Bosca Obradovic that he blamed all these replicas. You're responsible for this, and it would be nice to finally start taking responsibility for our behavior in this high house. Otherwise, we're going right where the SNS is taking us. I really don't know how small a percentage of the support, whether it's Two or Bosca Obradovic, it should be so that you don't fear it. As you can see, no problem is we're in the minority, we're in opposition, there's not much of us, that we can't clap loudly. We have our own program. We know exactly what needs to be done to make Serbian citizens better, and Serbian citizens, the same ones who were forced to collect capillaries, to drive around Serbia for sandwiches and 10 euros, who will look in their wallet, in their refrigerator and in their tank when they pay for fuel to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14623	Col. Janjušević, you ordered the violation of the Rules of Procedure to Article 27. What you're talking about right now is absolutely no point of contact with Article 27. On the contrary, you abuse Article 27 in order to replicate to the MPs of the SNS. You spoke a little bit about how I defined Mr. Bosko Obradovic, MP Bosko Obradovic, did something wrong. No, I didn't say for a moment that anyone, anything, did anything, but that Mr. Obradovic, through his presentation, mentioned several political parties, caused several political parties to rise up a number of replicas. To mention directly Minister Alexander Vulin, and that is a fact, Mrs Janjusevic. There was no moment when the basis for the opportunity to speak was repeatedly indicated, i.e. the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, or the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the same member. Believe me, look at the stenogram and you'll see to it. So I don't think I hurt the 27th member you pointed to. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Now we have a series of replicas. First of all, the People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14624	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Same base. I have to admit, we're doing our best to make advertising rules as little as possible. You have certainly noticed that we abstain and when the basis is more than clear, when brutal abuses here are, when shouting, shouting, literally screaming towards the present minister and insulting completely unacceptable qualifications. The fact that what we do turns out to be that one of the MPs whose manners are at a level, so the mediocre bureaucrat, does not allow such behavior to enter into the National Assembly, and he keeps doing so. He did it today, we didn't react to it. But when he gives the foundation for a replica, it's always an opportunity to hear whatever it is. The fact that no one honestly belonged to this or that part of the spectrum, whatever he meant and whatever he wanted to say, did not vote for Alexander Vukic, is a direct insult to the face of more than two million Serbian citizens. He wanted to do it, to say it, or whatever he wanted it to be, it was a direct insult. It just doesn't work. He was right about his colleague Arsic, when he reminded him of that wisdom, that "It should not be carried out in victory, but should not be humiliated in defeat," which is exactly what he does to himself who insists on causing replicas here. He's humiliating himself further. He wasn't good enough, a phenomenal result of 2% in the election, so he decided to humiliate himself through it. When he talks here about cheap labor, let's face it, he's only got a partial right to it, as a subject. For work, there is no right to speak of anything, the worker himself is nothing, he could not read, nor for this session of materials, as he could not speak of any before, one Rules of Procedure could not read, if this assembly was going on. The power not to talk about how much he doesn't have the right to say 2% is 2%, but cheap things can, because the only thing he demonstrates here with haughtiness is cheapness.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14625	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14626	I'm advertising Article 107. I think Mr. Orlic just insulted her on several occasions...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14627	It has already been pointed out on the violation of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, and the basis of Mr Orlic's announcement was a replica of the exposure...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14628	I apologize for the injury you have done by not warning him just now when he, on several occasions, insulted a colleague of Boška Obradović. I just want to ask you, Mr. Chairman, that the percentages are not spoken of today in the National Assembly, especially when there is an injury to the Rules of Procedure, because I don't think it's right to say that defeat is 2.5% of the votes won, and that, on the other hand, the people in a very strange way have celebrated Vucic's victory of 50 and what is 9, 60, 65%, because I think that victory is very irregular and very unfair and would not indulge...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14629	Mr. Bozovicu, the basis of your report...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14630	... In the polemics. No, I wouldn't just, just let me finish. I wouldn't advise you to engage...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14631	The basis of your report was the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 107, you pointed out and asked us not to talk about percentages and election results, and I completely agree with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14632	Why don't you shut it down?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14633	Our goal is to talk about what is the topic of the current assembly. But it's interesting that you have double arches, that when the opposition's MPs talk about percentages, you shut up, and when the opposition's MPs get a response from the MPs, then it bothers you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14634	I can have it, not you. I can have it. You're the one who's chairing the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14635	By allowing equal rights and MPs of the opposition and MPs of the post, it is evident that I do not have double arches.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14636	You turned off my microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14637	I have not turned off your microphone, but I have warned you that you are using the stated breach of the Rules of Procedure to disrupt the member you pointed out and the reason you went out with, which is to mention and talk about percentages.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14638	Same way they did.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14639	You are trying to abuse Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly to replicate to the MPs of the SNS Parliament Club. Thank you. I don't think I've hurt Article 107. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14640	Yeah. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14641	Right on the line, the word has a People's MP, George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14642	Thank you, Chairman. I would seriously worry that Bernard praised Alexander Vulin, I would seriously wonder if I am in the left-wing party, whether my president is an honest left-handed man and whether the job of the minister of labour, martial arts and social affairs is being carried out with great responsibility, seriously, and whether the citizens of Serbia see and recognize it. Fortunately, a man who has lost his compass completely, probably as a consequence of these famous 2,29 or 2,25, more irrelevantly, who no longer knows what's left, what's right, what's east, what's west, who swears to the east, and asks to be supported by the West, the one who destroys his councilmen in Chačka, or better to say, flees the committee group that he's the boss, because he takes away all the compensation they receive as councilmen in the City Municipality of Cačak, is a man whose qualifications are not worth listening to, let alone to them. Obviously, he has nothing left to do but try to attract attention here to justify the great funds of his mentors, who have been thrown into the wind, and is not able to bring even the Chacan students, nor the Chacan high school students, or adults, into any protests he claims to be serious, big and dramatic about Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14643	Neđa Jovanovic, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14644	I would like to thank the President. In all this scenic stuff that he staged and manifested by the MP who replicated me, there's something good. It is good that the citizens of Serbia, whom not a small number sees this Assembly, were able to see for themselves after my discussion and the replication that had been done to them, that I was fat, that whoever replicated me could do nothing but show hate, except to expose insults, manifest swearing here, and, worst and most harsh, discrimination. Discrimination of fair and unfair, discrimination who knows how far they'd come if it were his and that's possible how he wants it. We will never allow ourselves to discriminate against anyone. Not to those who speak meaningfully, nor to those who speak nonsense, to anyone else. I am obliged, and I will give myself the freedom to apologize to the citizens of Serbia, for through a discussion by the citizens of Serbia, the one who has repulsed me greatly injured, humiliated, humiliated, divided into honest and unfair, divided into such and such. This is not what Serbian citizens deserve, for the simple reason that they used their democratic right on April 2nd, to give voice to the best candidate, that regardless of what hurts, this candidate has 55%, which is incomparable, incomparably more than 2.28% or how much, which they have had the possibility of over two million of them expressing confidence in something worth trusting. The SPS and all SPS members supported it. I, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, will certainly not allow the SPS members to be offended. They all voted, and we are proud of defending Serbia and the SPS with our voice and giving voice to the one who deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14645	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic. Get Vesna Rakonjac ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14646	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. I'm glad, Madam Chairman, that we're going back to the speaker list and going back to the agenda. Today, indeed, there are a number of international agreements, protocols, conventions, etc., and these are very important agreements, something that is very important for our country. I think we also contribute to international credibility, and everything else, as well as reputation, of course, that we enjoy on the international agenda. I would not specifically like to repeat everything the representatives of the motions of these acts in this debate have already pointed out, on several occasions, the honourable ministers, but also the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, but I would like to look at some of the most significant points in the shortest lines. However, the debate so far, both yesterday and in the last hour we have had the opportunity to attend, has led some MPs to feel the need to talk about some things and topics that have nothing to do with the agenda. So the previous speaker talked all the time about something that was in no way on the agenda. If you ask me, I think it's a result of nervousness, political anxiety probably because of the election results, and it's affecting total loss of orientation. All right, let's talk about it. Let them be as loud as possible in that and keep them as persistent as possible. I support them in that, because it obviously directly affects the further loss, that is, their rating that is in the downfall. There is a former speaker who is otherwise known for his haughtiness, but who has recently been known as the leading leftist, the leading and prominent Marxist, the Trockist even, even though he was known as the extreme right-wing man, although he is walking with today, they called him a prominent extreme right-wing man, even a clerofasticist, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14647	Great. Just get back to the agenda. Please. Be kind to me personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14648	As I said, these agreements confirm the definition of the Republic of Serbia to co-operate with other countries in different areas. I would be apostrophe of the security agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany, as well as a proposal for a police co-operation agreement with the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as co-operation in the fight against organised crime with the Republic of Poland. I believe those agreements should contribute to the consolidation of further strengthening co-operation in this area, security areas, but continue to strengthen co-operation in the area of preventing and combating crime, crime...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14649	I ask that Natasu Jovanovic not approach the table without my permission. Just a minute. If you want it to be a turn, then the order applies to both the opposition and the parliamentary majority. So you didn't get permission, don't come from behind, especially. (Natasa Jovanovic: The lady is not threatened. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14650	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14651	Just follow the rules and obey the Rules of Procedure. I'm not afraid at all. Just follow all the rules, especially you who have a grudge about holding a session of presidents and chairmans. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14652	Can you just give me back my time please?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14653	No, I'm not counting on your group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14654	Thank you. So I believe that these agreements should contribute to the consolidation and further strengthening of co-operation in this area, as I said, areas of great importance, areas of security. This is what is very important for the simple reason that security as such is one of the key preconditions for one normal life, for a normal environment in every country, and especially for the political stability of our country, and for the entire region. Political stability is again a basic prerequisite for further economic development, a basic precondition for improving conditions, i.e. the economic environment, as well as attracting further investment, which then leads to the creation of new jobs, etc. In one word, it leads to an increase in the standard of living. These are the basic postulates that rule the modern economy, and I think anyone who wants good for our country and our people thinks that way. I think his political stability comes first. But unfortunately, not everyone thinks so. Unfortunately, there are MPs, there are parties that work directly to disrupt political stability, demand political instability, even work directly on it. And here we have some MPs who spoke today. And there's this guitar player, so he's better at playing guitar than doing politics. There is also a previous speaker who is known as the leftist, as the Marxist, because these protests go hand in hand with the organisation "Marks 21". What is the name of the “Marks 21” organization? Well, because he advocates abolishing Republika Srpska, Kosovo's independence, by insulting the Serbian Orthodox Church at every turn, but that doesn't bother him. It's his company, but let's keep it going in that venture, because it's quite certain that each of his further steps leads directly to the downturn, until it comes to zero with these 2.29% as it is. Just one last thing, don't convince us here that this government is bad, that Alexander Wolf is bad, that there's nothing wrong, etc. You're supposed to convince these two million people who cast a voice to Alexander Wolfich in this election. Convince them and then come and talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14655	The word is Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14656	Dear fellow ministers, I will talk today about the proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Romania on Social Security. This is a good bill by which the Ministry of Labour once again confirms that it takes care of its citizens and employees, if we have in mind that about 25,000 people will be easily provided in this way and by solving the problems they have so far in the area of pension-inhabited insurance, which is regulated by this law, by the work of health insurance, from the areas in which work injuries and occupational illnesses, maternal giving and children's supplements. This agreement does not apply to legal regulations introducing new areas of social security, unless the Contracting States have agreed differently and can agree on another part. That's how we place good international and good neighbourly co-operation. The agreement is a comprehensive international agreement that regulates areas, as I said, pension-inhabited insurance, health insurance, health care, labour injury protection, occupational illnesses and child supplements. The agreement is based on generally accepted principles, our country's experiences in this area, as well as the standards foreseen by EU Regulation 883 2004 that regulates the social security of migrant workers, those who go to work in neighbouring countries or other countries. The basic principles of representation through the provisions of the agreement are the principle of national treatment, the application of the rule of law of employment to the establishment of obligations to implement social security, with the exception of the implementation of social security relating to posted persons and diplomatic and consular representatives regulated by some other laws. The insurance principle which allows the burden of giving and social security to be borne by that State whose insurance company is also concerned with the collection of periods of insurance completed in both Contracting States in order to exercise the right to give or to retire. Direct payment of bankruptcy payments to the user who has aged the right to give, i.e. disability-retirement insurance. At the moment of entry into force, the funds will be provided within that limit set by the Ministry of Finance, and in the section of the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension-Inhabitation Fund, for the provision of pension-inhabited insurance and for the giving of injuries to work and occupational diseases, and for the division of the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund to provide health insurance and injury to work and occupational diseases. This is what this law applies to. What some people say about previous speakers, and they say all sorts of things, both about slave labor and about the carelessness of our workers and employees, is absolutely one example of how we can deny all these statements, and how many representatives of the opposition take care of the representations of citizens can also see whether they were present today when the Committee on Work had a discussion of the performances and complaints of citizens, and they are in the regular composition of the working group. As far as investing and giving funds to foreign investors, as far as I can understand it, it's totally equal to giving for both foreign and domestic investors, it just needs to be good projects, good plans, action plans and financial plans, and not having the consequences of the "Vinaria Zivkovic" type and many others, which we haven't been able to deal with for 12 and more years. One more thing that left me completely speechless, which is – at one point... (Vojislav Seselj throws out of town. I'd like some attention, please... (Vojislav Seselj: I cannot listen to you every day, only you speak. ) When we talk about "Belgrade on Water", on one side we have accusations that it is an agreement that is not legal, that abuse, that some restaurant owners will make money, etc. Well, of course, it's a business-occupied complex and it needs restaurant owners to make money, it'll pay taxes to the state, it'll separate social benefits from that tax, etc. Why do you have something against it? On the other hand, we heard – IT sector and boom, instead of "Beeding on water". As I could see, boom was "Hetherland", not the IT sector instead of "Beeding on Water". One more thing: getting the coast together. You're asking us to take care of the coasts, the ports, the shores. When we do that, it's no good to you. Why? Because you didn't think to do it, and when someone started doing it, when you see it day by day, it bothers you. Yesterday we could hear about the disastrous departure of our young doctors abroad. And here today -- the government approved 2,010 new jobs for medical workers, 631 doctors, 30 pharmaceutical biochemists, 1,349 nurses and technicians, at 21 health institutions in Serbia. The competition will be on May 15th. Minister Lonchar is here and I hope I've read it correctly. In the past, 4,000 health workers have received jobs, half of which are doctors. Since the beginning of the year, 463 workers, 204 doctors, 252 nurses, or medical technicians. More than 4,000 specializations since we've been in power. Only in March – 634 specializations. And don't say we don't take equal care of all parts of Serbia, the Clinical Center has got 380 jobs, Vojvodina 229, Clinical Center, Kragujevac Clinical Centre 219 and Nis 58. So, evenly, as per the number of patients’ beds and as provided for by the health plan of the reference institution “Batut”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14657	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14658	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers and representatives of the ministry, are now in front of us, among other things, of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Romania on Social Security. In today's and yesterday's debate, this agreement seems to have caused the least controversy, although I think it is essential for each individual and for the Serbian citizen, especially those who live in a border position, i.e. They live in parts next to the Republic of Romania, those who are from Banat, and so are the citizens of Kickinda, from which I come. The agreement is primarily important because this area has regulated an agreement of over 40 years. The last agreement that partially regulated this area was brought in 1977 and regulated only the area of health insurance, and this agreement today, i.e. The Act on Confirmation of the Agreement regulates both pension and disability insurance and child benefits and professional illnesses and occupational injuries. Also, this agreement is very important for border areas near the Republic of Romania, because we in the Republic of Romania have 23,000 citizens of Serbian origin associated with their friendly, family, business and other ties with citizens in Serbia. If we add to that relations between Serbs and Romanians who have been growing stronger in recent years, we understand the importance of this agreement. The agreement is based not only on compliance with EU standards, but also on generally accepted principles and also on the experience Serbia has in this area. The agreement will finally regulate full-time employment in border areas, so we will not have a case, as it was before, that an internship of a Serbian citizen working in Romania cannot be included, or vice versa. How significant this agreement is, and in practice, the example of Kikinda, which started negotiations with the investor, a multinational company, "Zopas" from Romania in 2014. One of the main obstacles to a multinational company, Zopas, has just been to unregulated the area. As a result, the leadership of Kickinda directed the competent ministries to regulate the area, which in some subsequent period both Kikindi and others came into contact. But what is very important, and what happened in the meantime until this area is regulated, is that the Nakovo-Lung border crossing opened, which allowed both people and investments to move more easily from Kikinda to Romania and back so that the Zopas factory opened a plant in Kikinda that currently employs about 300 workers. Not only did the opening of the border crossing and the introduction of the Zopas factory contribute to what should be paid particular attention, but it also brought new investors, the introduction of a customs-free zone, the completion of many jobs that remained unfinished in some previous period. The local self-government also had its requirements, which the government has met and paid great attention to the demands of local self-government and, therefore, today in the Beijing elections held on 2 April, we can praise the turnout of over 60%, where Aleksandar Vukic received citizens' support over 60%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14659	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14660	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I support and will vote in favour of all international agreements and protocols on today's agenda, because I believe that each of them contributes to the better co-operation of our country with other countries. In my presentation, I will stick to an international agreement on tobacco smuggling and tobacco products. In fact, we all know that tobacco smuggling and tobacco products, as well as illegal production and sales, are increasing from day to day, globally. We have an international agreement that is just about to reduce this as much as possible, if not completely disabling illegal production and trade in tobacco and tobacco products. The fact is that tobacco and tobacco processing are a strategic product for all countries of the world, both for those with developed economy and greater economic potentials, and for those in transition or development. Many reasons impose the need for this strategic product to be introduced into the legal frameworks of business, as its illegal trade and production cause great damage to all countries. Accise policy and the collection of excise duties from tobacco products is an important factor in tax revenue, but is not the only one nor the dominant one, given the intention and reasons for the adoption of this agreement under the auspices of the World Health Organization. We all know how harmful tobacco is and how harmful it affects the health of the population, causing various severe diseases for which there is very often no cure or, in turn, treatment is long-term, uncertain and expensive. Also, the fact is that the uncontrollable availability of tobacco products is uncontrollable. It endangers our youngest members of society, as well as the poor populations. It should be pointed out that our country has a respectable, legislative infrastructure that intensively works to prevent illegal trade in tobacco and tobacco products, but obviously this is not enough to work on a national level, because the smuggling channels of distribution do not know the borders and there is no illegal trade only in the frameworks of a country, but it is a problem that is present on a planetary level. The funds, i.e. revenues obtained from illegal trade in tobacco products, are mainly used as generators for the next illegal activities of certain persons and groups and so on in the circle. It should be pointed out that only that tobacco, although I am generally anti-smoking, is what we do and the profession requires, only those tobacco processed in legal tobacco industries can guarantee the correctness of the product and the prescribed optimal concentration of certain substances in them, while all that is outside of the legal flows and whose content is unknown or the quality control process has multiplely threatened the health of smokers, i.e. Consummation and, of course, he needs to get in his way. In the end, apart from budget damage by not paying excise duties as a country and society as a whole, we are also very damaged by public health violations, and although the word is that health has no price, unless this gets in the way, the price of health will unfortunately rise from day to day. I want to thank again all the citizens of Nis and Nisavsky County who gave huge support to our presidential candidate, Mr. Alexander Vukic, 56.47%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14661	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Let Ljiljana Malusic and Tijana Davidovac be prepared. (Vojislav Seselj: And when will I? Right after them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14662	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I would particularly like to stress the importance of the proposals that have come before us by the Government and the Ministry of the Interior. In particular, I would stick to the proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation in the fight against organised crime and other forms of crime. It is precisely because of the importance of this co-operation, and above all because of the determination of methods of preventive action in order to reduce the crime rate, as well as the processing of criminal offences. The first step taken by concluding, i.e. by signing this agreement, and later on what we will do in the voting day and by supporting this proposal, the co-operation of the two countries will receive concreteisation through the possibility of applying the said agreement. With the assistance of the International Community and the conclusion of such an agreement, the Republic of Serbia will work to develop the potential for a strong fight against organised crime, by strengthening co-operation, first at national and regional level, but through such agreements and at international level, by strengthening the capacity of state bodies involved in the fight against organised crime, by harmonising our legislation with international standards, by applying preventive and representative action in a more effective fight against organised crime. One of the agreements taxfully lists crimes whose perpetrators will be prevented by the competent authorities from executing, as well as some activities that will form the basis for the co-operation of the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Poland. The reminders work, in the period from 2014 when Aleksandar Vucic became Prime Minister and by the end of 2016 the overall crime rate was reduced by more than 8%. As for the fight against drug trafficking, more than five drugs have been seized, more than 200 members of different criminal groups belonging to organised crime have been arrested. On the other hand, there has been an increase in the number of employees working to curb organised crime, new police stations have been opened and thus larger territory has been covered and thus more citizens are protected. During this period, the government also adopted a Strategy - a Financial Crime Investigation, which envisions police reform, prosecutors and courts, recognises a wider circle of state authorities that are responsible for achieving the highest level in the fight against organised crime. Also, the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities has been adopted to combat organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious crimes. It is very important to support proposals such as those that are before us today, because organised crime groups have a very harmful impact on our country's economic and economic development. The financial damage organized crime can cause is enormous, and the security issue in our country is always raised in connection with it. Organized crime groups are first connected in our country, then regionally and ultimately you have an international problem on which prevention and resolution should be handled. As the National Assembly is competent to confirm agreements when the law provides, I am taking the opportunity to invite my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support these proposals in the voting day, which I will certainly do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14663	Ljiljana Malusic and Tijana Davidovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14664	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, today I will speak of two laws. However, before I begin my presentation, I would just like to thank all of Serbia's citizens for the convincing victory for our presidential candidate, and also something that cannot be hidden, I am not understated, just congratulating all the citizens of Serbia who have recognised household policy. (Vojislav Seselj: President, what's the agenda point? ) (President: Kyoto Agreement. ) (Vojislav Seselj: Host policy? I'm absolutely happy to be in this party, patriotic, domestic. (Vojislav Seselj: If you were a housewife.) Thank you, Mr. Seselj, you are my favorite, so I always respect your opinion. Thank you. That's right. Can I go? Thank you. (President: You go ahead. ) The first law is the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the European Forest Institute, the ECI abbreviations. The European Forest Institute Convention, which was adopted in Finland in 2003. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro also signed an agreement in 2003, but unfortunately, the disintegration of this community should now ratify the convention, which we will do with great desire and expectations. The EFI is an international organisation that brings together 25 countries by 2013. From 2013 to 2017, seven other countries joined the organisation with 115 associates and not only that, there are five regional offices based in Barcelona, and there is also a liaison office in Brussels. So, completely well-placed all over the cities. Why is it good to be in this organization? First of all, because policies are being made here, both regional and European policies. It's good to be at a source of information and it's good to exchange research. What is good and what needs to be pointed out is that the budget of the Republic of Serbia does not go to a single penny of this organisation and what is still to be pointed out is that the institutions associated with this Convention include the Faculty of Forests from Belgrade, then the Institute of Forest Research, as well as the Institute of Lower Forestry and Environment from Novi Sad. The second law I will talk about is the bill to confirm the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Romania on social security. By 2016, the law of 40 years ago was in force, which was rather narrowed down because it was only a health care business and was specifically concerned only with urgent and urgent medical care. Today we are passing a European modern law, primarily humanely concerning the united protection of full social protection. So we don't just have health care, we also have child care supplements, then labor injuries, all kinds of disability. So, one modern law, first of all human. The most important thing to point out is that there is a huge fluctuation between the Republic of Romania and Serbia as far as workers are concerned. This law will cover all workers. About 23,000 people from Serbia are currently living in Romania and will all be covered by social protection. What is yet to be pointed out is that this law also contains an agreement regarding migrants, also something that is humane. We have shown a good example in the practice of treating migrants and how responsible social policy should be maintained. Good for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What fascinated me was equal treatment for all the citizens of the two countries, so as to treat the Serbs in Romania, so will their citizens in the Republic of Serbia. What else is there to point out? The fact that all kinds of compensation is paid in the place of residence. What's most important is to collect the internship. That means if someone wants to retire, and there is not enough work experience in Serbia, the work experience that has been achieved in Romania will be gathered. Humane, beautiful, quick, responsible. After all, we are a country of accession to the European Union, we pass laws that meet all the criteria. What else is there to point out? Also covered are tourists who happen to find themselves in both countries. We have agreements made with 28 states, we go to new agreements every day. Why is that good? Because we're strengthening foreign policy. We make friends, we don't make enemies, and that's what we need to support. We also make deals with Russia, with Quebec, with Australia, wherever our people live. Once again, in the voting day, I will support all the proposals of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14665	Thank you. The word is Tiana Davidovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14666	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the Confirmation of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, along with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, confirms an international treaty that ensures continuity in the fight against climate change at global level. The Kyoto Protocol is subject to the obligation to reduce atmospheric gas emissions with a greenhouse effect for the period from 2013 to 2020 in countries that have voluntarily accepted the same. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change currently numbers 196 members, while the Kyoto Protocol continues until 2020 has been adopted by 34 countries. The main objective of the Convention is to ensure the stabilisation of the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases. The way this target was achieved for the period 2008 to 2012 was established by the Kyoto Protocol quantifying the obligation to reduce atmospheric gases to 38 countries and this is on average 5% compared to the 1990 reference year. The Republic of Serbia had no obligation to quantify the reduction of atmospheric gases, which implies a lack of obligation and a period of follow-up to the Kyoto Protocol. However, the obligations imposed by the Protocol were not sufficient to achieve the objectives of the Convention permanently. Moreover, measurements show that total global emissions and gas concentrations in the atmosphere have been growing steadily since 1970. In 2015 it has been globally the hottest year since when measurements exist, and ten warmest years have been recorded since 2000. This trend resulted in an increase in the intensity of natural and natural disasters. In the period from 1960 to 2012, there was a significant increase in mean maximum and minimum daily temperature in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, on average by 0.3 degrees Celsius per decade year-on-year. The hottest year was 2000, then 2008, 2007. This situation has had a major impact on the climate in our space. We had a drought in 2012 that contributed to reducing the yield of some crops by up to 50%. The estimates show that droughts of 2000, 2003, 2007 and 2012 caused material damages of more than 3.5 billion euros. Also, in 2014, we had a flood whose damage was estimated at 1.5 billion euros. We also suffered material damage from forest fires between 2000 and 2009 estimated at over 300 billion euros. As for the future in Serbia, temperature increases can still be expected, ranging from 2011 to 2040 to 9 degrees Celsius. It is also expected to reduce the amount of rainfall, which will affect corn yield by 2030. A reduction of 58% is expected and a potential reduction in wheat yield will be up to 16%. In order to prevent this, in addition to activities at national level, action is also needed at the global level foreseen by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In view of its basic objective, it was necessary to ensure continuity of actions to reduce atmospheric gas emissions after the end of the Kyoto Protocol 2012, where the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol for the period from 2013 to 2020, which, as I said, has so far been accepted by 34 countries. Also, in 2015, the Paris Agreement was adopted which is practically the legal continuation of the Doha of the amendments, i.e. Kyoto Protocol. This agreement concerns the post-2020 period and obliges all members of the Convention to reduce the emissions of atmospheric gases that produce the greenhouse effect. For the purpose of adopting this agreement, the state has been called on to deliver its intended national specific contributions to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, including the Republic of Serbia. The total reduction in gas emissions by 2030 that can be achieved in our country is 9.8% compared to 1990 emissions. From everything I have stated so far, to ensure further economic growth, but also to ensure the future of the planet, it is necessary to limit temperature growth on a global scale. It has been scientifically shown that there is a need to limit the growth of global middle temperature by the end of the century to below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the level before the industrial revolution, which implies a continuation of the Kyoto Protocol through the Doha Amendment. I would point out that accepting this amendment has no negative consequences for our country, and that the obligation to reduce gas emissions has not been introduced. At the same time, the Doha Amendment Act gives greater opportunities to use funding from multilateral and bilateral funds for the purpose of combating climate change at national level. By accepting this amendment, the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows its commitment to meeting the obligations under international agreements, in particular the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14667	Thank you. In accordance with Article 96 of The Rules of Procedure was signed up by Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14668	Ladies and gentlemen, since you've put 16 points on the agenda and united the debate so it's impossible to actually debate all the points, I've defined myself as talking about what I think is potentially the most dangerous thing in these 16 points. This is a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other members of the Education Reform Initiative in South East Europe on the seat of the Secretariat of the Initiative in Belgrade. You see what amazing things are happening here. This is something that's been cooked for 14 years. It's the first indicator of the great danger that threatens it. There's nothing concrete in the text yet. For fourteen years, something cool has been cooked and now it has come to know which countries are involved, Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, Kosovo as a state, Albania, Serbia and Moldova, I don't know why Moldova. These are countries that are organized to join their efforts and implement common forces reforming the education system. What do they reform? Is the structure of the education system? Is his division at three basic levels of education? Do school plans in primary and secondary schools and colleges? Do you have any teaching programs? There is not a single word about it in 14 years, but already here determines what status of the international headquarters in Belgrade will be, the minority status will be as NATO members of the pact under the IPA agreement. It will have all immunity, diplomatic privileges, and the state is obliged to support them in undefined financial resources every year. What exactly is behind this? We have experience. If it's about reforming teaching programs, reforming subjects in biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics, what's this misery that has to be united and implemented together? They need their experts to learn from the practices and experiences of more developed countries that have more efficient education systems. What is there to be brought together by experts from Serbia and Albania, Croatia and Montenegro, Macedonia and BiH? What are they talking about? First, they didn't reach them in astronomy, not in atomic physics, not in molecular chemistry, not in biology, not in genetics, they're far above the average world level, and if they need to teach someone to reform our system, they need to learn from those who have made the most progress here. However, they are not interested in physics or astronomy or chemistry or biology, they are interested in Serbian language, literature, history, culture and art. And what's the idea? Through a highly bureaucratic institution, because here as this institution is presented to us, this is a higher degree of red tape than the one common to the EU. They will impose on us the arbitrary name of our language and our letter and they will say that it is not Serbian, it can no longer be Serbian Croatian, because it is both Bosniak and Montenegrin, so they will introduce a new name, to call it naski or lice. That's what they're cooking for us. They have nothing else to prepare, because it is a language that is exclusively Serbian and all linguistic in the 18th and 19th centuries and 20th centuries is agreed that it is a Swiss and Serbian language, and the Croats left their language in the 19th century, they had even two languages, Cacavian and Cacaucan, because they had previously adopted a part of the Slovenian ethnic structure, called them Croats and the Cacao language. They gave up both teak and cocoa, took over Serbian as their literary language, and immediately polluted it in the name. Instead of being Serbian, he was called Serbian Croatian. There was also Vuk Karadzic carelessly because he participated in the famous Vienna deal in 1850, along with Djur Danicic, on the Serbian side, and on the Croatian side was also a famous Serbophobe, a Serb, a man who stole the great Njegosev ep – Death Smail-age Cengic. They therefore adopted the Serbian language as their own and immediately began to falsify it, to invent new words and coins in order to make up as different as possible from the original Serbian language, the natural language that was created and developed in one normal way. After these civil wars in the former Yugoslavia, we have a realized political project of Bosnian language. Why not Bosniak, they didn't explain it until the end, they called it Bosnian. Because back in the days of Kalaj and Austro-Hungarian, she intended to separate Bosnian Serbs from Serbians, so she called them Bosnian and printed his whole grammar. In the end, here's our Montenegrin language. In this fictional language, they do not have 30 letters, but they have 32, 34, because without a new letter to say "shake" or "shade" and such things. And whoever comes to mind can invent their own language, and all to create as many arguments as possible that the language is not called Serbian, and so has the Hague tribunal. Instead of in Serbian, the documents we received were in bhs, Bosnian-Croatian-Serbian. That's what they called him. What do they want to do to us in the field of literature? A huge Serbian folk literature but also authorial literature to translate, if they can't completely kidnap from the Serbian mile to translate into a common one. You see, the Croats they're taking from us all, from Milan Rešetar, the Government Hand, and so on. Bosnian Muslims would like to kidnap Mesu Selimovic, kidnap Ćamil Sijarić and many other great writers who have consistently considered themselves Serbs of Muslim faith and whom the Serbian people are sincerely grateful for their huge contribution to literature. They're trying to take Negosz from us, and now they're falsifying him, and through this project, we're gonna have to accept it. His people deny Serbia, falsify from his work everything that is Serbian and turn him violently into this communicable Montenegrin. What they're preparing for us in the area of history. And that's where they're trying to get all kinds of forgeries to introduce. First, they falsify our history from the time of our fight against the Turks. To falsify our history from the time of the struggle against Austro-Hungarians. The history of World War II, that I further slandered the Chetniks as fascists even though they were the first to raise the uprising and Tito was not allowed to come to Serbia until 1944, although they only consistently fought against the Germans and other occupiers, and Tito made written agreements with the Germans by declaring the Chetniks a common enemy of Germans and partisans. Martian negotiations, here, Marijan Risticevic learned all this well, and it would be good for the rest of your coalition to read something. Then, they want to falsify our latest history, the history of civil wars in the area of the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s. The Hague tribunal started the job. All The Hague rulings are based on counterfeits that Serbs have caused war, that they have oppressed other nations, that they have fought for "Great Serbia". They do not understand at all what the "Greater Serbia" project is, that the "Greater Serbia" project is a joint state of Orthodox Serbs, Serb Catholics, Serb Muslims, Serb Protestants, Serb atheists. That's far from their brain. There they indicated that Serbs wanted to destroy everything around them, so if not genocide, then by extermination or some other form of crime against humanity. Now they'd like to turn it all into a common history. They would like to destroy the assets of Republika Srpska's existence. The Republika Srpska Krajina was a state, internationally unrecognized, but a state. I appeal to the International Court of Justice's verdict in Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawsuit against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. There in one place the court found, Republika Srpska was not internationally recognised, but it was a state, it had all the state attributes. This international recognition brings certain privileges and privileges in international relations, and it is not, as far as the survival of the state itself is concerned, particularly because the state survives the force at its disposal to preserve its borders and its order. It would now completely poison it, if it were a rebellion by local Serbs initiated from Belgrade, to prevent the Croatian people from gaining long-sufficient independence and self-dependence. And the fact that the Croats took over a million Serb Catholics and violently introduced the Croatian National Corps at the time of Austria or during the communist Yugoslavia must be forgotten and erased. I've seen what some of the project's idea protagonists have done. They began to write a common history of the Balkan peoples, from this history to erase everything they didn't want, so that Serbs would introduce themselves to the conquerors after the First World War, so that they could achieve their imperial ambitions by suppressing both Croats and Slovenians and Bosnian Muslims and Macedonians and Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, etc., even Montenegrins, although the vast majority of people born in Montenegro still feel that they are Serbs and have nothing else to be. Who's not a Serb in Montenegro? Only one who fears the state's salary will be taken away by Milo Djukanovic, only one who is terrified of taking his privileges. Here, Milo Djukanovic has repeatedly falsified election results, suppressed Serbs, imposed language on them, which is alien to them. They don't want to write in fictional language or enter new fictional letters without any phonetic need. And enter NATO. And all those who go through this, candidates are for NATO. In addition, the structure of the secretaries' education in Belgrade reminds many of the structure of the NATO Pact, except they do not yet have imagined armed formations. I wouldn't be surprised if they did, too, so that their armed formations go through schools and lead the order. What do we have to talk to Albanian education experts about joint reform of the education system? There's nothing to talk about. But the goal here is to present a falsified Albanian history, which does not exist, as a history of Balkan peoples, to destroy everything that is Serbian in Macedonia. It's buried there in the literature, but it's left in archaeological findings. Wherever you stab the Ashes in Albania, all the way to Drac, you can dig up only traces of Serbian statehood and Serbian culture and civilization. One little square around Koljca, is his name, Natasha? Help me out a little bit, you can see it's a complicated situation. That's where the Albanians lived as a mountain tribe. To Drac was a Serbian state, and in Durres lived Latina and the Draco Duke at one point he became the king of Hungary and set out to take over the throne, and somewhere along the way he died, somewhere in the Croatian area, Karlo Drački, I think his name is. If the Minister of Education were here, he'd have no idea if he helped me out here, he has no idea. Well, let me tell you something else, tomorrow we'll file a motion, I guess we'll get enough signatures for the Minister of Education's shift. We've prepared that today, we expect enough signatures to win. I have those 17 minutes you took from the SRS. You've kidnapped us 17 minutes of debate, and as head of the parliamentary group, I have the right to use that, too. That was the practice here, and I used to use a part of that time that belonged to our party. Here, Maya won't do it again. When we replace her, who's gonna be her fault? Maybe they'll sacrifice her too if they have a higher interest. You never know that in advance. We won't reveal the secret that Maya will be sacrificed. Okay, laugh at you, Maya.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14669	Thank you. You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14670	No, I've got 17 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14671	You've spent your time with a lamentation on my destiny. It's very difficult for me, but until then, I have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14672	Wait till you hear, Maya, it'll do you good to miss school to hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14673	That's what we'll do when there's an education minister on the agenda. Will he be a victim too?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14674	And he'll be the victim. He's got to be removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14675	Gordana Komic has 41 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14676	Thank you. Forty seconds to count down 40 days in which this government falls, so all we can say is that we hope that the future government will look at our discussions in the course of this debate and in the course of any other debate, if they are in the next six weeks as far as the government falls to the official resignation of the Prime Minister and that at least in the Ministry Act, the future, will bring in something from offers, proposals, reflections and perspectives that we have shared during this session. It is not unusual for a government that has fallen to work and acts as if it is nothing and that everything is a sausage and is often less harmful than when the government is serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14677	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14678	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, have not received an answer to any of the questions I have asked the honourable ministers regarding the serious objections I have made to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Qatar on mutual incentive and protection of investment. No one answered my question about what kind of investment the state of Serbia is planning in Qatar. What is our interest in having mutual incentives and protecting investment? No one answered why this agreement too broadly and legally incorrectly defined the concept of investment and contrary to the Investment Act was incorporated into the concept of investment so-called investment. commercial claims which have a clear consequence that someone can abuse this agreement. No one answered the question of how and why you misdefined and too broadly the concept of investors from which in this way you directly introduce the possibility that a multinational company founded in a third country, rather than in the party to this agreement, can be called upon to protect the clauses of this agreement. No one answered the question why no provision on the applicable law was introduced to resolve the dispute to apply the law of a party to the dispute and to whose territory the investment was made, including its rules in the conflict of law. On these concrete remarks, based remarks which, of course, the Dveri parliamentary group will not vote for this agreement, because this is only one in a series of agreements that is only in the interest of foreign companies and foreign states that want to place some of their capital here in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14679	I gave you 15 seconds more so my colleagues wouldn't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14680	Please, I have six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14681	The word is Marijan Risticevic, four minutes and 26 seconds. (Bosko Obradovic: I have six minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14682	Thank you. If the discussion were something smarter... (Bosko Obradovic: I spoke 14 minutes yesterday. Want me to give him a second?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14683	You know what, I'm neither a timer nor a person to argue with. In a year, you must have figured out who measured the time. Therefore, as long as you have time, no one else complains. You always have some paranoia for someone to take something. You know how much I'm interested in how many minutes you have and whether you're going to speak for ten hours or 15 seconds. So you're knocking on the wrong door. Don't harass me. (Bosko Obradovic: Check. That's what you're harassing us. You think you can harass us forever. Don’t yell at me and yell at anyone. (Bosko Obradović: I am not shouting. You're harassing us. Everyone knows I've been talking for 14 minutes and there's a video footage of 14 minutes. You give me two minutes. Don't yell. (Bosko Obradović: I am not yelling at you. You're stealing from the election... You have a warning from me. I don't let you insult me. You can tell me everything politically, but if I was stealing something, I wouldn't allow it. (Bosko Obradovic: You stole four minutes from me. Everyone here knows you stole four minutes from me. How can you not be ashamed? Politically say whatever you want about me, but the labels of this guy...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14684	Will you give me back my time alone?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14685	I will, but I just want my colleague to calm down and shut up, let us do the rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14686	Take care, he's very violent towards women. Take care. Can I start?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14687	Try it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14688	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14689	I don't give back time. I'll count you in two minutes and 34 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14690	Thank you. It's hard to talk after this, but I'll try. I support almost all agreements. I find Kyoto protocol particularly interesting because of climate change and the damages that have taken place. If we want to read, we have to plant, but that and the air conditioning has to wash. If we want to eat delicious bread, we must sow wheat. If we want to have delicious meat, we must sow grains with which to feed... So if we want to eat delicious bread, we have to sow wheat. If we want to eat meat, we have to grow cattle, we have to have cereal, and for all of this we have to have an air conditioning that will send it away. Otherwise, all efforts are in vain. Many of our crops are at risk because of these climate change, some of them will be audited, some of our crops have suffered, some of our gender will be smaller, and that's what I regret and support this Kyoto protocol agreement. As far as tobacco is concerned, I also support it. I owe Mr. Pernar one correction. We have prevented the anti-cancer trade in tobacco, some people have been arrested by the Caves, but they have also been processed and proven to be individuals he said were involved in the smuggling of tobacco, that it is not true, but that the tobacco was grown in its field. It's full of truth, but we found a lot of tobacco growers in Srem that they smuggled it, sold it in the markets, and let me tell you that every damage per kilo of tobacco keeps about 100 euros, which in excises, which in VAT. So if the government catches 40 tonnes of tobacco in smuggling, then multiply it, 40,000 kg times 100 euros. If an excessive smuggling of tobacco is contained in the markets, count on every kilogram of government to contribute to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14691	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14692	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14693	You see, I gave you four minutes. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14694	I had seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14695	You don't. You were four and 26 and I added more. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14696	To conclude, I support all agreements and condemn the behavior of my colleague Pernar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14697	The word is Alexandra Tomic, three minutes and 27 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14698	I thank you, Chairman. The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today to end the debate in one tone to say that these agreements are the result of government work in previous years with implemented economic reforms, but responsible for the policy it has led towards foreign policy and internal and as such a political platform offered to Serbian citizens, who received over two million votes. What needs to be said to previous speakers and to point out that Qatar is not the Republic, but rather a country that is a monarchy and which is the order of states recognised by Serbia as a partner with which to co-operate. That's why the agreements that are ratified today show that we have friends not only in the West, but also in the east, but also in countries that are monarchies of this type, like the Emirates. What needs to be said today is that many countries have recognised the results of the elections in which Mr. Vukic received over two million votes and with which the SNS, as a candidate for the presidential elections... What has to be said is that the reflection of today's session is the light under which today's activities are being held in parliament and show that we end these presidential elections in agreement with the citizens of Serbia and their assessment that Serbia should have one president, as the Prime Minister of this government has been. The government will not fail because it has not worked well, as some have stated here, but because the prime minister is moving on to a new post, which is the president of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the voting day should support these bill proposals through ratification of the agreement, as many agreements have been signed during the former regime. This means that they could not be ratified because both sides could not find a way to implement these laws in practice, and that is why they only came to ratification in the congregation today. I therefore call on all other parties to support these bill proposals, because they will do good to all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14699	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled single search. After we've done a search, the National Assembly will decide on the motions of these laws in the voting day. Let's move on. The 13th point - Proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is a proposal submitted by the president of the DJB parliamentary group Sasa Radulovic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search on a proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the DJB parliamentary group. Does the promoter Sasa Radulovic want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? You want a word on this? Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14700	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members, this is the usual item of the agenda when changes are made in the membership of parliamentary groups, whether because some MPs are leaving their posts, some new ones come, or certain parliamentary clubs change in their composition. What I'm saying is, I don't think it's right to approach these changes, when this second case is about, that is, when the number of MPs in the parliamentary groups is changing. Namely, when we chose the compositions of the committee at the beginning of this term, there were 247 MPs, in 17 parliamentary groups, some mathematics was made as many as any parliamentary group should have members of the board and then, according to this mathematics, with less or more dissatisfaction, all the parliamentary groups made their proposals. Today the situation is different. Today, we have 14 parliamentary groups, and there are 236 MPs, or 14 independent MPs, and that mathematics from a year ago, or a little less, with the start of the mandate, is not the same as today. We think it may be necessary to make a change now in relation to the situation that exists today, compared to what happened a year ago. It's a principled grudge. This is the point we can talk about here at the tide. We don't have a chance to talk about this at the Parliament's colleges, or anywhere. Once again, I want this opportunity to express the dissatisfaction of my parliamentary group, I believe all fellow MPs from the opposition, with the fact that out of the 20 Assembly committees, only two committees are chaired by MPs from the opposition. So that's far from the power ratio in this House. What I am particularly concerned about, and why I point out, is that today, not at this point in the agenda, but at the next point, which deals with these changes and one member of the committee which is also chairman of the opposition committee, the president of the Committee on Eurointegration is changing. I don't know if, at least on that committee, it will continue with a good practice that the president of the Eurointegration Committee will be of the order of the opposition, or, in a hurry, without some big talk and public speaking. So, my appeal to you, above all, means to the leadership of the Assembly, to initiate an agreement between the heads of parliament to see if this relationship and the representation of each parliamentary group on the board is adequate today, after all these changes that have taken place in the last year, and to adapt it to this situation in which we are working today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14701	Thank you. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14702	Ladies and gentlemen, as head of the parliamentary group, I'm entitled to 20 minutes and I'm going to try to use all 20 minutes, and you're anxious that these people don't come earlier today than last night. (Marian Risticevic: He will take care of you. I'll protect you, Marian. You're under my protection. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we still have a big problem in front of us today for the simple reason we don't have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In all democratic countries, there is always a new composition of the National Assembly that brings new Rules of Procedure on Labour, and this is where the Rules of Procedure are used, and who knows when they have brought it? I've been away, on a business trip, I can't exactly set a date, and it's been a long time. You've spent here in the assembly benches, as the ruling party, for five years, and you haven't been able to bring in a new Rules of Procedure, because it suits you for what the dosmanians have brought. The opposition in the National Assembly corresponds to you. Who's to blame for what they did and what they did? It's nobody's fault. But you can't show such a degree of self-will right now and just say they just brought it, which we don't care about, we do. You're still creatively applying it, so you're supplementing some of your own ideas that are very creative, and they often make up for the MPs. What are the basic problems here? The main problem is, firstly, that parliamentary groups are not established on the basis of the electoral lists. It would be normal for each election list to have its own parliamentary group, and not all of them to go to the polls, to cross that 5% census, and then develop into shooters, and from one electoral list, here 10 parliamentary groups. It's a flagrant violation of congregation law. "Community law as a special branch of law" by Lazar Markovic was developed in Serbian theory, at a time of communism it was completely neglected, serious people's attempts to rebuild it again are being seen. Secondly, there is a problem here of the extreme immoral people leaving the political party, on whose list they have been elected, or who have been expelled from the party and retain the parliamentary mandate. It's like it's their grandmother's. The parliamentary mandate was acquired on the parliamentary list of a particular political party or group of citizens. Our Constitution has prescribed that the MP can entrust his mandate to a political party on whose list he was elected, and then the sodomites broke the Constitution, changed the law. So whoever is elected on one of the parliamentary lists has a constitutional obligation to restore his mandate. The Dosmanians have violated their law of the constitutional obligation, so they said that the mandate belongs to an individual, as if it were his grandmother's, but then the individual should have financed his own campaign, alone to run the election, to organise the controllers himself, and everything else, and not the political party on his hump, and he says - the mandate is my personal property. You tolerate it. Here, it happened to us too. We were once again bribed by advances by one MP, one Milenkovic from Zitoradje, Marko Milenkovic. He played their campaign there. Agitated for them openly at the time of the election, etc. And of course I send three Chetniks from Belgrade to Žitoraj to return with my mandate. They didn't even ask how to get back. They know the law of men. The term of office must be returned to one of the prescribed conditions, and you know what the law says when the mandate of the MP ceases. One of these conditions and here's the mandate is returned to the most harmless, painless condition. There were other conditions, God forbid, you shouldn't have gone far. Only if it's necessary by accident, so it's necessary, then there's nowhere to go. The term of office has been returned to us, and to you who are not you to whine, so put on the list a bunch of bogeymans again, so hold on to your head for stealing your term. Here, that's the case with Chanka. You know I have nothing good to say about Chanko. Marko Atlagic throws. Don't do that now, Marko Atlagic. You're a university professor. You have one good thing about writing a book of political geography and giving it to me. But trust you. I had to read it because it was dedicated to me. I haven't seen the other one yet. So, Chanak as he is, we can think about him all the worst, but we can't steal his mandates. But he shouldn't have even been allowed to form a special parliamentary group if he went on the coalition list. Then all those in one coalition were supposed to be one parliamentary group. There seems to be no way for moral influences to be carried out on those who stole the parliamentary mandates. Absolutely not. And you're kind of calm, and you, the Socialists have a tradition of stealing other people's mandates, so if you say it now, it's got you. You, the advancers, will only be able to catch up with you slowly. You not only continued to steal the mandate of Serbian radicals, but later, as Santa Claus, you gave your mandates to others, so when the devil came to get their mandates. The Serbian movement restores its, its, its. You'll see what you're aware of. Those who couldn't stop me on the street last night are not because of me on the street, but because of you. I just had more courage than you, so I didn't go through the mouse hole and run from the National Assembly than I did on a normal path. That's why I think we should change the Law on the Selection of People's MPs first and adapt it to the Constitution of Serbia, so that we should bring in a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and that we should remove from the National Assembly all MPs who have been expelled from their political party or have left the political party on whose list they have been elected, so that we can normalise our work in the National Assembly. I'm here to listen to the names of different parties. I'm surprised because I didn't even know there were, names of various parliamentary groups. I didn't hear them exist, and they get 20 minutes and talk. He can't do that. I've got 11 minutes left, and I'll give that to you when these guys come out. We're not leaving yet, people. If you followed me, you'd be safe, and you'd be scattered like this. Who knows what could have happened to you. Some of them jumped over the fence there. They could've lost their underpants. So I'm trying to be as constructive here as possible and I want the National Assembly to be serious. I will, of course, make my remarks about the work of the President of the National Assembly when it is spoken of here - why the National Assembly must not be subordinated to the executive authority. That's special, but it's also an important question. This is about the National Assembly being arbitrary, based on both legal and moral principles. I can't figure out why someone's not ashamed when they're selected on a list, and they've written it off or left it alone or it's been removed and he's gone. I helped Mark Milenkovic come out here morally compared to such, although he was a little troublesome and a little unsettled, but the arguments were convincing enough, not like Djordje Vukadinovic. He was a coalition partner with his magazine. His magazine is one of three coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14703	MP, please return to the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed by Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14704	That's what I'm talking about. Then, this proposal should be considered in line with the general need to revise all parliamentary committees, the assembly committees, because they are not based on elementary parliamentary principles. No, they're not. There is a beautiful practice here, a beautiful part of parliamentary practice, which, behold, is adopted in the days of the Dosmanium, for example, by the most sensitive parliamentary committees of the presidents, from the opposition. I remember a time when the opposition's representative was president of the Administrative Committee, considered the key, strongest. I guess the dosmania ended before you did. It didn't occur to you to return it. What I have often stated is that the chairman of the Security Service Control Committee cannot be from the ruling party. Then what does he control or who controls those committees? Control makes sense if someone from the opposition party is president, so the board then invites the heads of various services, so it hears them on a certain issue. You've seen how it's done at the American Congress. I guess you've seen it before. The Committee has great powers there and all ministers must respond to the invitation of the board and other public office holders. We have committees formed pro-forms that look like they exist, and they don't actually exist. The ruling party cannot bestow on itself those committees that I consider to be the most beautiful, most important, most influential, and the opposition to assign something that no one considers particularly significant. This item of the agenda should perhaps be absorbed today by accepting the proposal because one party cannot be denied the right to join the Assembly board because its mandate has been stolen, but it would be much smarter if we were to agree in principle with the principles of parliamentary law and that the same rules apply to all and then the already much better atmosphere in the National Assembly. If the work of the National Assembly is based only on the persecution of the opposition, then what does it look like, or if MPs of the ruling majority will praise their prime minister, their president of the Republic, their party president, to swear allegiance to him and to invite Qatar to take this democratic example, that Qatar also organises his elections and learn from us how it is done. (Marian Risticevic throws.) Yes, she's already defended us from the Chetniks. In that case, Marianne, you're gonna need those Kuwaiti bills to consider soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14705	Ambassador Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14706	Let me finish, can I? So here we are, the Serbian radicals, the victims of persecution yesterday and today. Yesterday it was my turn to speak, the word was given to the ruling party's MP. I kept the mechanism on here all the time, and they even warned me that once in a while Maya would erase it, so I had to do it again, so I worked again, and I couldn't talk in the end. We've been kidnapped today, it's not stolen, it's stolen when we can't see it, and you've taken us 17 minutes today, it's been taken. It's a more serious crime than stealing by law, but from a moral point of view, it's less difficult than stealing. Stealing is considered in a moral sense something far more illegal than kidnappers. Kidnapping can be a knight's act, right, Marianne? You had that... Easy, don't rush when I'm not in a hurry...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14707	So you can't fill the time?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14708	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14709	You can't fill the time, these 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14710	I can, I can, Maya. Whoever takes it can steal it sometimes, because it's starting to lose its moral compass, but kidnapping is an act of robbery. (Marian Risticevic throws out of town. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14711	Ambassador Risticevic, I'll give you a warning. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14712	I couldn't survive the reminder of Marijan Risticevic, I would immediately settle him half the fine of my salary. Don't, please, let someone here be punished for me. So, as for getting out of the National Assembly buildings, here, I offer you my protection. You're not particularly dear to me, you're not like this to me, but I'm willing to provide everyone with protection to get through the city center in safe hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14713	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14714	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like in some way to join in what the previous speaker spoke about and to support the majority of the statements that have been spoken of here for the simple reason that this, in fact, brings the public's attention to the importance of the state institution and this respected House in which we are sitting. If, I say, stealing parliamentary mandates, as well as stealing parliamentary mandates, which is happening across Serbia in Serbia, become something that is normal, then in Serbia politics and democracy will absolutely not be normal anymore. Indeed, it is time for all of us together, I would say, if we want to be honest, and that is a good check for all of us here, we should stand up together against any renaming of the Serbian citizens' electoral will after the elections, by having someone come out on an election list and win a parliamentary term before the elections, and then after the election, change their minds and go their own political way. To go his own political path, anyone who is not satisfied with his political option should run nicely in the next elections, check the electoral will of Serbian citizens and therefore win his parliamentary mandate and then it is an honest parliamentary mandate. This is how we have a situation where a law on selecting MPs is really abused, according to the owner of his term of office. What exactly did we get here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? We received a market, so the mandates are for sale, mandates are bought, mandates are resold, mandates are transferred from one party to another, from one parliamentary club to another, and we have a situation that politics in Serbia has become one drinking category, that neither political ideas nor political values, nor political morals, nor promises to the citizens before the elections, but who gives a higher price or how, possibly, through someone else's back to the parliamentary term, I abuse it, and then I make it available to anyone who knows who else or ultimately keeps it for me, as if I brought it from home. It is actually a key issue that I think absolutely has a basis to speak of, not entering a single case of any theft of mandates at this republic or local level and not entering into it that the largest number of stolen mandates has just taken away the SNS that steals mandates across Serbia, that we do not enter these details now. Here I am talking about the essence - either politics in Serbia will be fair, responsible and honorable and one of the most important social functions and, to put it this way, social interests or we will have that market where parliamentary mandates are resold. I would also like, on the trail of what the previous speaker was talking about, to point to a truly unfair and unfair attitude towards the distribution of presidential seats in the assembly expert committees. Indeed, it would be a turn if the opposition had a much greater number of members of the Assembly committees and had a much greater opportunity to actually control the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because do not forget respected fellow MPs, one of the most important of our functions, which they taught us at those first hours of parliamentary life and work, is the control and supervisory role of the National Assembly over the work of the Government. Ministers are required by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14715	Ambassador, I know you don't like me to do this, but you're not talking about the agenda. This is not a debate on what you think about the political situation in Serbia, this is a point with a particular proposal for a decision proposed by MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14716	If I may say so, Madam Chairman, when Professor Vojislav Seselj says 16 minutes of what he wants, it's not a problem for you, and when I speak for four minutes, it's a big problem for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14717	It doesn't matter the amount of minutes and seconds, you know, it's a big difference between an MP who knows what he's talking about and an MP who wants to say whatever he wants to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14718	I'm not sure it's your archeologist, it's more likely that someone is closer to you, and someone is further or more fond of you, and you love someone less, because I'm speaking entirely of what the previous speaker was saying, I didn't say anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14719	I don't have any sympathy or antipathies that I make public.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14720	Then why is he allowed what I'm not allowed to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14721	You're not allowed, I can't really explain it to you. It takes 16 years of schooling minimum if you're just passing your exams on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14722	I understand that you have a special bond with Vojislav Seselj, but that doesn't mean that you stop me from speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14723	I can stop you, because you can't say anything about item 13, which is on the agenda, nothing, nothing, nothing you suggest, or how to change anything, at least some touch point, whether it should have done this or shouldn't have done it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14724	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to try to speak within my time, I'm not asking for anything more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14725	You mean whatever you want, within your own time? That's the point, I can't explain. You have time, 20 minutes to talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14726	I would ask you to prepare a speech for me in the future, so that I don't disturb you with my free, different and different opinion than yours, if it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14727	This isn't an opinion, this is an absolutely missed topic. Different opinions, we can discuss this, but be within point 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14728	So, what's the idea of spending all my 20 minutes like this by not letting me talk or what idea do you have? Can I finish my presentation or can't?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14729	Try it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14730	Thank you. So I have proposed a very concrete solution to this emerging problem, precisely on the basis of what the previous speaker has said, that we respect the existing Rules of Procedure a little more, by the chairman and beyond, and that we avoid the hypocrisy by which we call for this Rules of Procedure to be brought by some previous government and that we should respect it. When you're a better authority than the last one, why don't you make a better Rules of Procedure? That's my suggestion. Don't be hypocritical so you'll be okay with one bad Rules of Procedure when it suits you. Instead of well proposing a new rules of procedure, make a better rules of procedure and prove that you are a better authority. If you have accepted the same Rules of Procedure as the previous bad government, that means you are the same government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14731	MP Sasa Radulovic submitted this proposal to the Labour Rules. So the MPs left from his MP group and he's asking for his seats back on the boards. We've always done that before. I can't attend the collective theft of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14732	When I'm done, you can answer the word, come down amongst the MPs, answer, replicate...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14733	No, no, I'm the chairman and I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, you should talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14734	But you have no right to take my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14735	I have the right to direct you on the right path, and that is the respect of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14736	Okay. Can I go on now?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14737	Only if you're going to talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14738	Absolutely, I talk about the agenda all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14739	It's the only thing no one can see. None of the messengers notice it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14740	I have a very specific proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14741	Unbelievable. So far we have not had such a debate, that someone slows down, so at least to do so, to slow down MP Radulovic that he must not do so. At least that, so we know what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14742	If you allow me to use my time, since I am the People's MP of the Republic of Serbia and I have the time that follows me as the head of the parliamentary group, or are you simply going to make it impossible for me to speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14743	Try it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14744	Thank you. So, at the beginning of this presentation, I have already made a concrete proposal -- that all of us, the current MPs and MPs in this National Assembly, stand up against stealing the mandate, to stop stealing the mandate, both at the republic and at the local level, to come out as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a unique view that any attempt to end the electoral will of Serbian citizens and stealing the mandate is both immoral and in any other way controversial, regardless of what is being defended by the existing legislation, which was made to enable the theft of the mandate. Is that a concrete proposal regarding this agenda point? Yes, it is. It's a very specific proposal. So, in order for what's happening to us to happen to us, that's why a certain group of MPs have to seek their satisfaction, so that it doesn't happen to us, we have to stop it once. We can only stop this by standing up together against the theft of mandates, both at the level of the Republic and at the level of the locals. If it hadn't happened to anyone else, it would have happened. Because it can happen to all of us. You may at this point have the feeling that you are the greatest, best, indestructible, that only you can steal the mandates. But there may be a situation where someone will steal your mandate. Well, then you're going to moan and cry and remember this proposal, so that, in fact, the most honest thing is that no one steals the mandates. And that anyone who is not satisfied with his political option, with his MP group, with his party leader, has a nice return to that mandate, goes to the polls in the second option and proves that he is better and that he is right. Like this, you stand and legalize stealing a mandate as a real thing, just because it suits you right now. That's what I think is unfair. I urge you to show that width, to bring consensus on this matter, to agree that we are all against stealing mandates, at any level in Serbia, from the republican, over the province, to the local, that it is unacceptable, that it is not right and that we simply have to stand up to it. Do you support it or not? Here's a very simple question for the ruling majority. Do you support the theft of the mandate? Do you support that one MP enters the National Assembly in one list before the election and goes in another direction after the election? I think it's a very correct and fair and simple question, asked on my side. This is a principled political issue. It's not a matter of power-opposition. So can we at least discuss some basic, key political issues to achieve unity and consensus in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Who's in the interest of stealing a mandate? Who supports the theft of the mandate? Who's okay stealing a mandate? I don't think anyone who holds on to political morality is ready to agree to that and I don't see why you wouldn't support this initiative proposed by two heads of Parliament, now, whether the opposition or, whatever. It's a very simple question I've asked you before. Meet one of the political principles that needs to be re-established in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14745	We will, MP, which is why we are going to vote to return to the committees of the parliamentary group that participated in the elections. You knock on the open door. Be at the vote once, show that what you're saying is serious and you mean it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14746	I'm always at all the votes and I always vote the way I...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14747	So we're not running around and now we're making some kind of clubs a year and a half later, just because we think this is something more attractive.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14748	Mrs. Gojkovic, I don't vote as the bell says, I vote what I think.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14749	I know, but assure us you're serious. You vote what you think and here...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14750	Wait, is it serious after the bell? Is that serious?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14751	MP, you're either gonna talk about the subject or I'm really gonna have to interrupt. My tolerance has a very flexible limit, and now we're close to wearing it out. So, we heard everything you had to say past the subject, you just didn't say about the agenda point, is it okay if Sasa Radulovic asked for it or not? So we can understand you. The MPs object, they say they understand nothing of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14752	Here, let me cut you some slack, just one more sentence. So, in order for me to satisfy your need for the opposition not to say what she thinks but only what you think, I ask you to write me speeches in the future, and I will read them, so that you don't get upset that I have a different and different opinion from you. Because if you're so upset and you're so nervous that there's an opposition, that we have a different opinion, that we all disagree with you, that we're rebelling against you, then I'm the only one who's really left to meet you and make it easy for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14753	Dear colleague Obradovic, you don't even know what the opposition is and what it is to be an opposition. But that's the second time. I'll write that in both speech and book. You don't even know what it's like to be an opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14754	You know because you flew from various parties and various coalitions, you know perfectly what it's like to be in multiple parties and be a political flyover, so you can't hold those kinds of lessons.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14755	Nice. This doesn't lead to anything. So, if one of the heads of the parliamentary group or authorized, no one gave it to me. So they can only speak to the heads of the parliamentary groups, because no one has ever thought to give authority. Here, the word is Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14756	Dear People's MPs, I had no intention of discussing this item of the agenda, it is a highly technical or formal character, but I did report for the word because numerous false and slanders were made to the account of the Serbian Progressive Party. First of all, the Serbian Progressive Party has not stolen anyone's mandate. We didn't steal any mandate from the Serbian Radical Party, we didn't steal Mark Milenkovic's mandate, I don't know if anyone was sending troops to Mark Milenkovic in Žitoraj. I highly doubt that he sent them, because if he had sent them, then Marko Milenkovic would not have written a resignation whose explanation stands, if you allow me to read it – I do not want to be a member of the SRS, the SRS parliamentary group, nor to sit with them in the Assembly, because they do not appreciate and value work and results, but exclusively, it says Verice's lollipops and half-trons. I don't want to insult anyone. This is just a quote. I doubt anyone who has a Chetnik trin standing over his neck would have just resigned from this content. There have also been talk of some thefts in the election and the theft of mandates, I repeat, once again, the SNS has not stolen a single vote from anyone. We didn't steal anyone's only mandate. The fact that someone here is now being bullied, and in the election, they got 2.29% of the vote or just over 4% of the vote, so now they're brave themselves, that's legitimate. I have nothing against it, but I want to inform the citizens that what the two previous speakers just said just doesn't stand and that's not true. Here they form, though, parliamentary groups after the elections were held, but the SNS has nothing to do with it. Here they are already in sight, one practically already a parliamentary group is newly formed, I would say it is the group of MPs, Vuk Jeremic. However, MPs in the parliamentary group claim that they are not the MPs of Vuk Jeremic, but they seem to be and seem to me to be at the mercy of forming another parliamentary group, which is Sasa Jankovic's parliamentary group. Whether or not it will be formed, I don't know, but neither the parliamentary group of Vuk Jeremic nor the parliamentary group, potentially, is it, as I would say, the Protector of the citizens of Sasa Jankovic has anything to do with the SNS. As regards what we have discussed many times, how working bodies were formed, how permanent parliamentary delegations were formed, were formed on the basis of election results, they were formed on the basis of the number of MPs in the parliamentary groups, which is more favourable to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the electoral lists that participated in the elections, which is even more favourable for MPs in the opposition. What is very important, consultations were held with all those who wanted to talk. Here's the problem with something else. We faced, in particular, the President of the National Assembly, Vice-President of the National Assembly Veroljub Arsic and I, as one of the presidents of the parliamentary groups, with some MPs not to talk, simply not to talk, because they felt it was beneath them to have dialogue with us, and then they sent some other MPs. And that's legitimate. But it doesn't seem that we didn't invite them to talk. Every president of the parliamentary group was invited to talk, someone responded, someone didn't respond. Someone came, someone sent their emissaries. Whoever was sent on behalf of the parliamentary group, we spoke to him. As for the specific Security Control Committee led by Mr Igor Becic, we of the SNS parliamentary group have been blackmailed. Allow me, no one has the right to blackmail a parliamentary group that has 102 MPs, because then you insult the electoral will of citizens. We are told -- either he or he will be the chairman of the Security Service Control Committee, or we will not have any president on any committee. We said - we cannot speak language blackmail, the Security Control Committee belongs to the SNS parliamentary group. Given the number of MPs we have, we can discuss the post of president on another committee. They said no, or that or nothing. The language of blackmail can't make any deal, no result, and that's why we have this situation that we have. As for the president of this second parliamentary group who spoke of the SNS allegedly stealing or stealing votes or stealing mandates, the parliamentary group was given the post of Committee president, if I am not mistaken, for diaspora and for relations with Serbs in the region. If it's an irrelevant committee, I don't know. I think that all committees are equally important and that nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that there are most important, important and irrelevant committees. All committees are doing their job within their own circle. The parliamentary group has won the post of chairman of the committee, and, if I am not mistaken, there are seven MPs in the parliamentary group. Now that I'd like to quote the results of the last presidential election, I doubt you'd get that much. You wouldn't even cross the census, but it doesn't matter. So, I'm just saying, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, that it wouldn't remain as something that's true, and it's actually a brutal lie and a lie. No one's been stolen here, no one's been damaged, no one's mandate has been stolen, no one's voice has been stolen. Whenever anyone from the opposition wanted to talk to us, he could talk, but if anyone doesn't want to talk, then you can't make anyone talk. But anyone who was willing to conduct a dialogue on the establishment of working bodies and on permanent parliamentary delegations could have conducted a dialogue. Someone wanted to, someone didn't want to. But what we'll never agree to is that anyone is blackmailing us. I don't think one man in this room is the only one competent on the globe of the Earth to be the chairman of the Security Control Committee and that it will be the end of the world if he isn't the chairman of the Security Services Committee. There are a lot of committees in this National Assembly, we can agree on everything, but to blackmail the SNS, we won't let you. As for what's been said about it, and it's talked about with a mockery, how we're supposed to hold some praises to the president of the SNS, so no, we're going to hold praises to you who won 2.29% of the votes, 4% of the votes, 1% of the votes, the people are just thrilled wherever you show up. Of course we're going to say that we're happy, that we're happy that the new President of the Republic is Alexander Vukic, because the people said that in the elections. Since 1990, no one has won almost 56% of the votes and more than two million votes in the presidential elections, if we talk about absolute numbers. What does that mean? That the SNS parliamentary group should serve as a punching bag for some who win something in the election that's about a little bit more than a statistical error? Of course we're not a punching bag, and of course we won't let you, and every time we do, we're gonna say we're proud of the fact that the new president of the Republic is Alexander Vukic. Imagine what would happen if, in some cases, the President of the Republic was one of the previous speakers, what would happen to this country and what would happen to this people and what the future would be like for us. If they behave in this way in the National Assembly, speak the language of swearing, language of insult, language of slander, mock with the MPs, insult, you can imagine how to lead the state. So no one here has been stolen, you've all got as much as you've been given according to the election results. Now, the election results don't suit you, that you think you're worth more than you're objectively worth, that's your problem, there's a SNS parliamentary group that can't help you. When you win the elections, then you will have a majority of the National Assembly committees and you will have a majority in permanent parliamentary delegations, such as, after all, you have an absolute majority in all election committees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including election committees in Kosovo and Metohija, and you are talking about some electoral thefts, and as you have an absolute majority and in RIK, so some are threatening to bring down the presidential elections allegedly by not declaring RIK a winner in the presidential elections. It's like RIK is choosing the president of the Republic, not the people. And that's what those who swear to the Serbian people say, in the rights of the people, and then say, when they don't like the results of the election -- whatever we care that I got a little more than 2% of the votes, it's not the one who won 56%, it's the one who voted RIK. I don't want to go into that formality right now. Against RIK's decision, of course, can be brought by the Administrative Court, it would be some legal fission I don't want to go into right now. I just want to finish. None of you gentlemen have been stolen. No mandate has been stolen from you. No voice has been stolen from you. What you've been through badly in the elections, put your finger on your head and imagine what kind of campaign you've been campaigning on, without any political, no economic, no social idea. All of you were more or less the only idea – "Vučiću, gay", "Ua, Vukicu", "We hate Vukic". The campaign you've been campaigning for, you've won so many votes. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14757	First Vladimir Orlic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14758	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I've been in the system a long time. What I wanted to say was about the exposures that were prior to Dr. Martinovic's exposure. So, what we were listening to before the president of our parliamentary group got his word on, was believe me, quite the opposite of what is provided for in Article 106. He mentioned the president, but I think we have to insist on this so this could make any sense. Article 106 says – only in accordance with what is provided for in the agenda. Before the word was received by Aleksandar Martinovic, more than 30 minutes of the most empty, the most pointless debate we have had since the beginning of this meeting, because it was not in accordance with Article 106, because it was not in line with the agenda, but how, by the system good morning charter on all four sides. One, and the other president of the group's MPs is reporting to kill time, to have fun and then tell everything that comes to his mind. Is the agenda item or not the agenda point a matter of the Rules of Procedure? Come on, fair enough. Well, it's not. Anyone could read nicely that this was a proposal for the board's composition. One committee, a proposal from one parliamentary group, two or three names in total, which will not be clear. Is the agenda point or not the agenda point – where Bosko Pernar went, that he should prepare the speech. Well, we all know he needs to be prepared for a speech. We all know he's in no condition to say two things, to make sense, without being written down, but he can't say that he's been here more than ten minutes talking about having these needs. Let those needs be solved elsewhere. That's not the agenda point. Whether it's a part of the agenda or not, it's a part of the agenda that everybody here should vote the way they think. That's also what Pernar said, which is probably why he never votes, because he votes as he thinks. But that's his problem and his need. It is not the duty of the National Assembly to be harassed by one president of the parliamentary group for 20 minutes and because the other is eager for attention and painting, so that we listen here for 20 minutes about literally everything and everything, just not the agenda point. Just one more sentence. Let me tell you that I don't want this to be voted on, but I want this to be contained in time so we don't have to attend the circus of these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14759	Thank you. So, no injured Rules of Procedure, I tried to get Bosko Obradovic back on the subject. I must tell you, dear colleague, you have used very ugly and unsolicited words for your colleagues and for the content of what they have said. It's not right, I have to tell you. (Vladimir Orlic: Ugly but justifiable.) (Vojislav Seselj: Well, every moment of Mayo, we will not replace you. ) Please, whether it's meaningful or pointless. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. No, he didn't mention you. (Vojislav Seselj: How not, he mentioned me, quoted my speech. No, I listened carefully, I came down to hear even better. (Vojislav Seselj: He quoted my speech, Maja. He didn't quote your speech. Please don't put any more pressure on the Members of Parliament. (Alexander Martinovic: You think someone is afraid of you? ) Please don't interrupt the session, or I'll interrupt the session of the honourable MPs or I'll share the fines. Take your pick. So we have a specific point. I'm sorry that Proposer Sasa Radulovic is not here. We're only talking about his proposal. Don't spread the subject, I have to be more rigorous. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14760	I'll tell you at first that it's certainly not pleasant when you attend a family fight, because I didn't insist on the Rules of Procedure or wanted to advertise it. Your colleague advertised the Rules of Procedure and practically accused you of breaking this Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Seselj spoke 20 minutes outside the topic of the agenda and you showed a completely different attitude towards one MP, so Mr. Seselj compared to Mr. Obradovic who later spoke in the same way and agreed on many topics, and Mr. Obradovic made it clear, but you were much less tolerated to him even commenting on what he was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14761	Bosko Obradovic said nothing about the subject, but nothing but a short vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14762	Okay, but I'll tell you that the DS Parliament Club will vote for a proposal from the MP club enough, but it's very important when we talk about Parliament itself, when we talk about the theft of mandates that the head of the SNS Parliament Club and the head of the SRS parliamentary club on the head of the Dveri Parliament club, I think it's clear that we should also give an answer. What's the first thing in common between the SRS and the SNS? Did we hear there was no theft of the mandate to the SNS? So, since 2012...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14763	Ambassador, please talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14764	The MPs, the DS committees are in Mionica, the Ojacians, the Vlasotins... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14765	I will not listen to this, nor will I chair the assembly where MPs seek my resignation, they don't care what this parliament looks like, that they respect the rules of conduct won't. The Rules of Procedure won't respect it. Then what do you want? Should we dissipate the work of this House?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14766	Have they thought about it before?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14767	Well, then why do we even have agenda points? Why should we even have agenda points? Who is this perfection of democracy and the work of this House, which is proposed by your distinguished parliamentary group or by the Devere parliamentary group? That we don't have rules? That whatever comes to mind and just points out the shirt and says, "I'm an opposition, I can do whatever I want." Well, he can't. Well, Gordana Comic wouldn't let her take a breath past the agenda. Well, I was watching those sessions. I wasn't an MP, I was away from this kind of policy. Yes, I will answer you as President of Parliament where I suffer terror here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14768	Are you suffering from me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14769	Yes, I suffer terror from MP groups on this side. I'm in pain of mobbing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14770	I've been talking for one minute, and you've been listening to the others for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14771	Mobing, literally, this is my place of work and you won't let me work, you want to dissipate this Parliament's work. You want to deprive yourself of this Rules of Procedure. You want to unearth proposing and conquering the agenda. When we adopt him, you're no good. Then who wants to talk about this?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14772	You didn't say a word to any of them. (Goran Aleksic: Why didn't you break up Seselj, you have different arches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14773	Well, you didn't understand what the apostle was saying? I don't think so, and that's your excuse. Is that your role model? Okay. You always have an excuse for what you won't do or do. So this is where I take my mobbing from you every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14774	I've been talking here for one minute, you've been listening to 40 minutes of others, and you've been mobbing from me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14775	That's right. Well, I've also told my fellow MPs how he talks to her and you don't hear it, you just hear what I'm talking to you or someone behind you. The president of the Devere parliamentary group just didn't say that the three mandates were magically finished on this side and on this parliamentary group, did they, from our list. Is that right? He spoke of a shorter mandate, not a proposal for a decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I have such, two or three decisions, and I look forward to the motion for a decision to suspend the function of the Protector of Citizens because I have regrets from the citizens of Serbia that we cannot accept this resignation because of the amount of money we spend monthly on the Protector of Citizens. So you don't let me do my job and you don't let me give it to the vice presidents. As you wish to obey the Rules of Procedure, you say, "We shall seek a shift."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14776	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14777	It's the only thing you have to say. Give me back my time or I'll talk in my 20 minutes what I want. No, I'm asking you why are you doing this? Why don't you respect Parliament? I'm setting a five-minute break. This doesn't make any sense. Five minutes break, we can make a deal. I'm here. Let's get the heads of Parliament groups who are still in the O.R., and we can figure out a way to keep working. [[after breaks]] Just to wait for one of the vice presidents to come so I can't work alone. Will one of the heads of the parliamentary groups pick up? I will rudely interrupt anyone who goes past the subject, regardless of which group he's from. Believe me, you're as angry as you want. It's not a privilege to lead this House. The word has Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14779	Presidents of Parliament, it is really very strange to me how you show this to the head of the SRS, SNS and Dveri parliamentary group compared to me who spoke for a minute, and from that half of the time I spent saying that I would support what Parliament's Daveri Club proposes about their composition of the board and their right to propose their candidates on those committees. But what's worrying about all of us and what you've allowed Mr. Seselj to say is, it's a matter of methods, of putting pressure on both the MPs and the councillors. Well, he said, I didn't say that he was recruited by the SNS by one of the boardmen in Žitoraj, and that they brought him back by sending the Chetnik Troika...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14780	Let's go to the DJB parliamentary group. They're all I'm talking about right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14781	Here, and I'll finish it then. It is a model that has now been modernised and has continued since 2012 and been directed towards DS committees that have been chicanned and where the structure of local authorities has changed in many committees. I think it is important that we work together to ensure that there is not this kind of violence and these different arches, to be equal to all not only the heads of Parliament, but also to all MPs. I say, you could never hear a word of insult from me, nor will you hear it, but I will talk about some of the principles that we have to lead together here, you first, as chairman, but also all of us MPs, which is that I will never enter into the private lives of individuals, that I will never deal with their children, that I will never speak of their family situation and accuse them of anything that they do in this way, except for one correct political struggle and political confrontation of opinions. I think that's why it's your responsibility for all of us to maintain such an atmosphere in the congregation. I invite you to have enough patience for such a thing, and I know it hurts when your colleague from the MP club, who now enters, advertises the Rules of Procedure and tells you what I told you, that you violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing both the head of the SRS and the SNS to go beyond the subject of this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14782	Was this the Rules of Procedure? I didn't have vice presidents, I didn't move down in time. I'd be happy to answer that. I think I have a basis. From the heads of the parliamentary groups, the word is Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14783	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will support that the parliamentary group that has proposed this decision return to its place on the committees that belong to them, no matter what I think of Mr Rasulovic. It's time for them to have an MP's club, to have those seats belong to them. It's a model of behavior until now, and it's never been this much discussed and that probably some try to reach the 1800 hours, so here I am also having my own discussion to make their contribution to those with a few dozen of their supporters out there and welcome it. I think it's okay for all the parliamentary groups who have been educated to return all the places on the board that belong to them. With this in mind, I appeal to the parliamentary group that has come out, to avoid a fight with some midwives, that they too propose, since I am the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, to propose a member to the vacancy and to take advantage of the opportunity taken by the parliamentary group that has proposed this decision. With that in mind, I appeal to my colleagues that in future at some of the next sessions this will not be a subject of any controversy, because this is pure technique, pure mathematics, and the honesty my previous colleague spoke of is the fact that his party in India with five defects has replaced me in the water management building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-20-0.u14784	Thank you. No more reports. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. I just got word from the office that we're no longer in transmission. I think Novak Djokovic's tennis match is in progress. They didn't write that to me, but I guess. The 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE TERMINATION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONS OF THE REGULAR PARTIES OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARIMENTAL INSTITUTIONS Please, if they have not already done so, immediately submit applications for a word with the order of the MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. The motion for a decision was made by me on the proposal of the head of Parliament's group. I'm opening a search. Does anyone want a word on this agenda? So, the amendment of a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe delegation. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Please, if they have not already done so, submit immediately applications for a word with the order of the Members of Parliament. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Cedomir Jovanovic is not here. Does anyone want a word on this agenda? I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. The 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to suspend the function of the Civilian Protector, which was established by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. I remind you, Article 15 is Section 1. The Law on the Protector of Citizens found that, in the event of the resignation of the Protector of Citizens, the National Assembly shall, without discussion, take a decision to establish that the conditions for termination of office have been obtained. Starting with this, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft decision, in general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 21 April 2017, starting at 09.30 a.m., as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meetings are attended by 92 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall, and therefore there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 16 of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on the European Forest Institute, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, voted eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on Participation in the Central European University Exchange Programme "CEEPUS III", in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other members of the Education Reform Initiative in Southeast Europe on the seat of the Southeast European Education Reform Initiative in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one with abstention – two. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation in the fight against organised and other types of crime, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the area of security, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on co-operation in the fields of culture, education, science, youth and sport, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on the navigation of the Tis River, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Qatar on mutual incentive and protection of investment, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – nine, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Romania on social security, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. Since we are now moving to a decision on election and resolution proposals (point 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the agenda), I remind you, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Enough, in general. I conclude the vote: for -141, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international institutions, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 143, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Liberal Democratic Party – the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina-SDA Sandzak, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 142, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the function of the Protector of citizens, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 142, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We now move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure to which the MPs pointed. National MP Marijan Rističević pointed to the violation of members 106, 107 and 108 at 16 hours and 57 minutes at a session on 19 April 2017. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether those members are injured. I conclude the vote: for - five, against - three abstentions - no, 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 19 April 2017 at 17 hours and two minutes, pointed to a violation of members 100 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether those members are injured. I conclude the vote: for - nine, against -one, with abstentions - there is no. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Goran Ciric pointed to a violation of Article 107(2) at a session on 20 April 2017 at 13 o'clock and 58 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote: for - seven, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Veroljub Arsic pointed to the violation of members 108 and 109 at a session on 20 April 2017 at 14 hours and 38 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether those members are injured. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - two, abstentions - no. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Balša Bozovic pointed to the violation of Article 107 at a session on 20 April 2017 at 14 hours and 49 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the said member is injured. I conclude the vote: for - six, against -one, with abstentions - there is no. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Before the session is concluded, I would like to announce my decision to withdraw the decision on the sentencing of Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, because I do not think this punishment would contribute to anything absolutely. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Please stay in the O.R. just to get me a synopsis for the start of a new session and get on with it. Just a few minutes off, but I recommend you stay here.
