ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27002	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Natasa Mihajlović Vacic. We continue the joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 31 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been invited to attend all members of the Government with their associates. We continue to work on the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 31 of the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27003	Ladies and gentlemen, honored present, the People's MPs of the Bosniak Democratic Community will vote in favour of the Budget Law because we have made sure that a significant effort has been made to improve this law compared to last year, and certainly in line with real opportunities. I would also like to welcome the fact that significant funds will be allocated to the pipeline from Alexandrovec via Bruce, Rasška, Novi Pazar to Tutina, which is extremely important and which I hope this project will end by 2019, as announced. Also, I would like to draw attention to the ways of Novi Pazar – Tutin and Novi Pazar – the Senate because of the fact that last year's Budget Law was included, therefore, in the budget, but this year it is not and it is my question to the competent ministry. Why, this year too, these two routes are not foreseen by the Budget Law, although I am partly informed that there are significant problems on the ground, and that municipalities, i.e. the city administration in Novi Pazar, the municipal administration in Tutina and Sjenica, have not carried out part of their domestic task of property-legal relations and the route to which these two routes should pass. However, that is not the reason for this item, i.e. these two items to be thrown out of the budget. I think that the government should make an additional effort to achieve what is needed through these local administrations and finally start building these two roads, because they are two times that are capable, which are simply unimaginable, and we are witnessing that very often these paths are related to young lives. I would also like to welcome the fact that the budget also envisioned an investment for the transfer station under the waste management system at Novi Varoshi, which is also a happy news for us living in the Sandzak area, especially in the part. So, I don't know if there's any other part of this country where you have a radius of 30 kilometers of three huge wild dumps and when you're driving from Sjenica to Novi Varosha, on that road you're facing various vultures, stray dogs, are simply about dumps in such dangerous places that represent an ecological disaster, so I believe this transfer station at Nova Varosha is going to mean a big step. As for the funds allocated to diaspora projects, I would also like to welcome that, however, what can be seen in the explanation we have, therefore, the funds that exclusively refer to so-called. Serbia's diaspora, or Serbs outside Serbia. I would like to draw attention to the fact that among the citizens of this country living in the diaspora there are over a hundred thousand people of Bosniak nationality in the Sandzak area. I think there are members of other national communities. So, according to constitutional provisions on equality and on basic human principles, I think it is very important that however we seek full integration of all citizens regardless of the ethnic-nationality of this country, we integrate them within the country. I think it is very important to find a way to support some of the funds and projects in the diaspora for members of the Bosniak national community. On the issue of the Financial Support Act to families with children, I also want to support the steps proposed by these laws that will give some support to mothers who are giving birth, although I find that insufficient. Mothers must begin to be treated in this country not as someone to whom help is given, but as strategic verticals of the demographic survival of this country and of all citizens in this area. I therefore expect that in future projects and laws, even more significant steps will be made in this direction without restrictions, without calculations to four. Mothers are heroes, mothers are the main bearers of the future, and they must have more significant and unlimited support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27004	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic. Mr. Milojitsu, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27005	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know it's not your fault, but you're the chairman at this point, and I don't think it's serious enough to discuss the budget, the most important law in a year, which is not attended by the finance minister, and is not attended by a prime minister. I think at least one of them would be obliged to attend today's session. I know that Mr. Vulin, as an expert on everything and everything, can be responsible for the budget, but I really don't think it's appropriate that neither the finance minister nor the prime minister are at today's meeting. Can you tell us if we'll continue this way or wait for one of them to come and attend the most important session in a year?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27006	Thank you, Mr. Milojich. You said, in light of the above-mentioned violation of the Rules of Procedure, that I could do the damage to the Rules of Procedure, but given the question you asked, I'll give you an answer. The government informed the Assembly that the representatives, when it comes to this unique principle debate, were all members of the government, and that information was received with the draft budget. I am thinking precisely and specifically on the first page with the draft budget for 2018. There are currently 12 ministers attending the session and of course we have conditions for continuing work. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, thank you. Mr. Komlenski, you wanted to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27007	The Honorable Chairman was injured by Articles 103, 108 and 109. You were unable to influence the breach of Article 103, but since the classical abuse of Rules of Procedure was at stake, you were obliged to apply the provision of members 108 and 109, because the continued abuse of Rules of Procedure by experts for petty and large crime from Smederjevska Palanka is repeated from session to session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27008	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27009	In 105 and 106, the speaker just called another MP a petty thief, I suppose you understand that such a thing should not happen in the National Assembly and that you should use this Rules of Procedure whenever any MP is concerned with the ruling majority or opposition using such words. It's really not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27010	Mr. Radulovic, I don't know, and I don't see why you came forward and pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and why you recognized the MP. I didn't realize that Mr. Komlensky had spoken to anyone by name and by name, so I don't think I've done anything in this particular case in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? Yeah. I thank you, Mr. Radulovich. We're going back to work. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27011	Thank you. I welcome all members of the government who respected the assembly today, I think it is not appropriate that the others did not come, especially Finance Minister and Prime Minister Brnabic. It was probably celebrated for the Star by early morning, so they couldn't make it. I'd also like to ask the ministers present to see if they're a little uncomfortable that all these laws are jumbled in one debate. These are the laws they signed, and I think they should have a decent treatment. I would very much like to embrace Mr Vujovic's position yesterday, if we were on the right track, but I see only the following in this budget, here is my budget sublimation. Also, Mr Vujovic said this is the development budget. Does this mean that this budget will make us 657.7 billion dinars, that Serbia is in charge in 2018, to finance the budget deficit? It has turned the debt of "Srbijagas" and "Petrochemia" into a public debt of 64 billion euros, 52 billion dinars for capital projects of transport infrastructure, regardless of whether it is road or rail traffic and as if they are at the beginning of realisation, and so many ino loans in which the borrower is primarily the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure. Does that mean we've rewarded those who don't deserve it for being late and breaking deadlines? The defence ministry's budget of 70 billion dinars, as if we're getting ready for war, and Joseph Broz's statement still stands that we're getting ready for war as if tomorrow, and we hope he never will be. Mr. Vulin, we don't want to get ready for war. On the contrary, we want to invest in the protection of the environment, and I don't even know why you formed that ministry when it received minimal funds. We want to invest in natural resources around the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forests. We want to invest in security, so that there are no terrible consequences because of the natural disasters, the 2014 flood, we haven't forgotten and nothing really happened in that direction. A budget of 30 billion dinars, as much as it was invested in contract services, I absolutely can't figure out whether these are party personnel services that are set up by all ministries, and they are paid in this way, and we haven't formally hired people. Then, gondola in Belgrade. Belgrade has much to do with "Belgrade on Water", and contractual obligations have been made, and we are making gondola as another of the pre-election toys. That's why I want to tell the citizens of Serbia next and sum up, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is 24 billion euros, nine of which has been made in the last six years. Dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, according to all these loans that are being raised, guaranteed, jury and mortgage debtors are you, your children, your grandchildren and your pensions, your paid contributions to health care, pension insurance and unemployment insurance, your taxes and the complete VAT shown in your daily accounts that you are struggling to settle with. Wake up, Serbian citizens. It's about time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27012	I thank my colleague Pavlovic. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27013	Thank you. As every year, the time has come for us to sum up the results, the Honored Chairman, members of the government, honourable MPs. We can do this today with a smile on our faces, because the results of this government are shown in the budget that is ahead of us. The 76 billion dinar surplus on the whole republican level and 90 at the state level really shows the efficiency of this government. What's invested, the investments that have been made, are rightly done, because we have much lower unemployment, new jobs, factories have been opened, and many have been invested in infrastructure projects like Corridor 10, where more than one billion euros have been invested. What is also important for us, for the citizens, is currently the most important thing that public debt has been reduced and fiscal consolidation has been implemented, and we can increase wages and pensions, which had to be reduced at some point. We from the Socialist Movement, wherever we are, always have to fight for social justice. That's how our president, Minister Alexander Vulin, made a law on the financial support of families with children during his term of office as labour minister. Today, this law is very important for us as women, for whatever reason we do, whether it's a contract for work, a contract for temporary and occasional jobs, whether it's the owners of agricultural holdings, we have the possibility and we have the right to achieve maternity leave, or to receive compensation for it. What's important is that all the money goes into account, directly at the expense of our wife, the user, and can't be abused and can't be late. On the other hand, when our president is a defence minister, the budget has been higher than ever since 2000, has been increased by 11.6 billion, and a triple increase in the amount of arms and equipment. What's important to us socialists, too, is people, armies. The army is made up of people. For this reason, wages will be increased by 10%, military housing construction is planned, new equipment is planned to be supplied, so that all of this will increase both morals and combat preparedness of the army and in this way we will be able to reach our goal, which is a military neutral state, which is a strong and powerful army that will be able to defend our country. Because of the good and domestic attitude towards the budget, we today have a 5% pension increase, and many of the opposition would say that pensions should be paid back to the old ones, but I'm telling me that by this 5% increase for most pensioners, pensions will be bigger than those that were before the cuts. Why, unfortunately, are wages and pensions reduced? All this is the result of the previous government's robbery privatisations, all this is the result of a non-domestic attitude towards the budget. I only have to give some examples of how the budget was used, because we heard today that Minister Vulin knows everything and everything. It's true he knows everything and everything, and that's why he ran the KIM Office efficiently, he ran the Ministry of Labour effectively, and now the Department of Defense. What I'm sure Minister Vulin doesn't know, and there's someone here to teach him, is the Smederevska Palanca budget, damaged by four billion dinars, with tight interest, is how to damage Smederevska Palanka's budget by 14 million, so he buys from his party colleague the House of the Army, then sells further in some trade chain in a few days, and can you imagine what it looks like today. At the house of the Army, we have a store called "Maksi". To take care of people they can't, but they certainly know about animals, because we have, for example, at the Sports Centre of Forests 100 million, which is why the Forests went into liquidation, but no matter what the debt existed, they bought food for parrots. Not to mention, on the military plot "Pazl City" on Vozdovac, it was built on military land, without tender documentation, without a local and construction permit for 350,000 euros in the party's campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27014	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27015	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am sorry that the government continues not only to disrespect parliament, but also does not respect the citizens of Serbia, because the most important session when the budget is adopted has neither the finance minister nor any representatives of the finance ministry who could talk to us about it. I hope that the other ministers who are here in the O.R. will be competent to come with us and answer the question we will ask them on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, at the very beginning, this is the sixth budget adopted by governments in different SNS and SPS forms. Given the fact that you continue to violate the Constitution and that we do not get the final bill provided for by the Constitution to be adopted in the Assembly, on the other hand we do not have any data on the implementation of previous budgets, we can only talk about what we feel alone today or get some information from other documents and other bulletins. So, as far as the budget is concerned, I have to say that one of the measures you've managed to implement in these six years is the only reduction in deficits and that's good. The question is, how is this deficit reduced? It has been reduced, unfortunately, on the back of Serbian citizens, on the back of Serbian businessmen, not public business reforms, not GDP growth. As one single economic category, it cannot paint the country's economic power index. In addition to the deficits, if we look at the public debt and what about GDP growth, we will realize that Serbia remains completely economically broken. So, all governments, let me remind you, and here's the minister, I hope that it will be included in this debate and listen to what I'm saying, from 2000 to 20012, the average, if all is added up, including the period of the global economic crisis, had a growth of gross social product of 5%. The cumulative 47% was the total growth of the social product. In parallel, the public debt grew about 100 million a year. All that was until 2012. From 2012 to 2014, during the first government of Minister Dacic, or the prime minister, there was also a slight increase in GDP, so that Serbia would enter the worst economic period since 2000 in 2014 to 2017. So, from 2014 to 2017, Serbia had cumulatively only 1.66 GDP growth, but in parallel 10 billion are in charge of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Everyone in that period is in charge with 1,400 euros per capita, from baby to pensioner. It wouldn't be a dispute if we were able to raise the growth of the economy in another way, if anything positive had happened, and nothing was actually happening. So, you're going on. GDP will be 1.8%. Last year you were saying in that place, Minister, that this year's growth is set to 3%, but that you expect it to be 4% and of course it won't. Serbia is at a start compared to all countries in the region that are comparable to us. We're behind all the countries for GDP growth, and that's true. Also, the result is average earnings. You are trying very hard to transfer 400 euros, that famous profit margin in the Republic of Serbia. In parallel, if you look at countries in the region, there are bigger profits in Bosnia, in Montenegro there are bigger profits. Not to talk about Croatia and other countries. Only Macedonia has a little less profits than the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this budget, Minister, you continue with a devastating ban on employment for one single reason only - to continue to receive party SNS personnel under the board's cloak, and all those young people who finish school and who need to be hired here will not have a further chance of being hired. We cannot even talk about reducing unemployment, we cannot talk about any growth, because in order to have GDP growth, Mr Minister, we need investments of at least 22% to 25% in order for growth to be 5%, as much as it needs Serbia today, and that is not in this budget either. As for the increase in earnings, I would like to know why and by what criteria have you increased someone 10% or why, for example, local public enterprises have not received any increase and employees in them, nor do the workers of the Republic Health Insurance Fund have any increases in the proposal for this budget? You also indirectly downloaded the new ten billion in the draft budget to cities and municipalities, alongside the nine billion that you downloaded by the Law on the financing of local self-government, which means that centralisation continues, but you raised a billion in the current reserve so that you could probably, who needs it during the year, give without any system and no plan. In parallel, it continues with subsidies. As you reduce money to cities and municipalities, subsidies to unreformed public enterprises, such as "The Railway, with 14 billion. Also, the participation of the agriculture budget is below 5%, although you announce every year that it will be over 5% or that you will raise it, but you give foreign investors 12 billion for incentives per employee in your businesses. Of course, there is no Moravia corridor, but that's why he has the Nis-Drac highway and he has the Belgrade gondolas. In this year, 360,800, and the next year 800 million. It's something that Serbian citizens need to finance, because they're going to raise their standards and that's the investment you're looking at. What is also scandalous is that Serbian citizens single out nearly 15 billion dinars for the irresponsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's fines by judgment of the courts. For imaginary affairs, various arrests and court proceedings today, this is paid by the state in the budget and this is an increase of more than 70% compared to the previous year. The point is to reform the state and the essence is to create institutions. In six years, you haven't done it, and that's why it is the state of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27016	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. Mr. Orlic, you're registered. You're in the system. (Vladimir Orlic: Replica, mentioned party. ) National MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27017	Thank you. Well, I'm not surprised that the representatives of Vuk Tadic's Jeremic have a grudge over the fact that arrests are being organised in Serbia. I understand the reasons, but I have to admit that I'm really surprised that those who have recently discovered themselves as the concept of GDP growth are dealing with it and saying that something phenomenal has been achieved by 2012. How come someone doesn't comment on that minus, deeper than 3%, just in terms of growth? What time was that? So that it doesn't turn out to be exactly that period until that phenomenal year 2012, to which roses were flowering in this country? Maybe that's the reason? I'm surprised to mention the question of hiring SNS personnel. Why doesn't it finally go into that investigation that we are calling for, to ask each other, among members of their parliamentary group and others belonging to that party where they receive salaries the most normal in the state sector, where members of their families work and earn the most normal salaries in the state sector? Does that mean they're all members of the SNS now? I wouldn't say that. So much for being serious when you talk about it anytime. Subsidy. They can't answer us, and we call them neatly -- how many subsidies were allocated to foreign businesses, and how many domestic companies, how many people got a job based on it? Is that maybe better than those 500 thousand people who got thrown out on the street? They can't answer us why they insist, even now, on the gondola issue, on what they themselves have suggested? Gentlemen, in 2004, you proposed to gondola, or to a cable company in Belgrade. Look at the way it was proposed, designed and how much it was supposed to cost. Don't be surprised if it turns out it should have cost more than this as suggested today. The same thing you were doing with the fountain now you're working on that wire case. In the end, why not direct these questions to whoever is referred to these days by Vuk Tadic Jeremic himself, his class elder, Boris Tadic? Is it because in that case someone wouldn't have a group of MPs here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27018	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27019	Thank you, Chairman. I prefer the minister to answer this question, but okay, I also appreciate what Mr. Orlic was saying. So I was talking exclusively about official statistics when I was talking about the period until 2012, and it can't be deleted. So it clearly states that GDP growth was cumulative for those 12 years 47%, that GDP growth in the last three years was 1.66 cumulatively, that public debt at that time was 15 billion, that today is 24 billion, and I also appreciate that you stopped the growth of public debt and it doesn't matter what the product of it is, whether movements on the world market, whether the exchange rates, but it has now stopped, but you can't say that it's a success because you've already owed 10 billion. As for the situation in the economy, the subsidy, 36 billion are due to the Serbian businessmen to recover VAT. You, Minister, spoke about it yesterday, but I will remind you, for those who have been given solutions, not those who want to abuse this institute, but who have received a solution to vomiting, they haven't received that vomit in months, and the business of these private enterprises has been compromised, and that's to probably artificially say that I have a surplus of over 70 billion in the budget. If you do not pay and serve as a state of your obligation, it is perfectly natural to say – well, that I have a pocket full of money, but therefore do not serve my obligations, so that you can medialy manipulate. This is not a real situation in the register of the Republic of Serbia, and that is what citizens feel. The point is, as a government, you've alienated yourself from the citizens of Serbia, which you don't feel how hard it is to live every day. Citizens are on the verge of economic breakdown and economic existence, because they have new attitudes year after year. And now you have a law on new taxes that they'll have to pay. It's impossible for citizens to feel the improvement you've been talking about for six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27020	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. Minister Dusan Vujovic first holds the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27021	You know what, in the flood of information that you've brought here, it would be very good if you'd made some causal link between each of these findings and the links to economic policy between the beginning, progress and the situation today, in relation to what you're saying. To throw a huge amount of facts, everything you wrote repeated from the previous year, is absolutely not convincing. So, from the fact that you're repeating here, I don't know who's been writing you briefings, about the 10 billion-dollar increase, I've given you specific figures since the start of the program. You know, you've taught those physics, you're a very educated man and you're very eloquently all of it, but it's absolutely not connected, it's neither causally-consequently connected, nor connected to what's most important, which is that at any moment here, in this assembly, you're discussing the options that stand before us. The illusion that you create that it was possible to carry out reforms at no cost, that it was possible to take off and exit, the system solution, there's a fire, he says – take off, take off from the woods, take off, because I don't know how to fly. All I know is that I go through a path that offers normal professions, normal institutions in the world. So I'm sorry it's a harder way than the one you're imagining in your head. I don't see any way that all these facts of yours, in many things we can agree on again, we need citizens to be better, we're trying to do it right now, and that shows all the things we've done. This shows an increase in wages in the private sector, which shows a decrease in unemployment, investment that is greater than the current balance of payments. Are we gonna hang up again? I was perfectly silent while you were talking, please. Take your word for it, and say what you have to say. Please. Do you know what the term parliamentary means? I want to talk about all the topics, for me there's no taboo topic, just ask a nice question to talk about. Therefore, in all things where you speak positively, about aspirations, about desires etc., we can fully agree. In many of the facts you say, I also don't want to dispute the facts, I just want to talk about how they are causally-consequently connected, how from point a) could go a better way than what we have proposed. What we are proposing and which is both socially and politically quite demanding, and socially quite painfully, we have come out of that first, most difficult phase of this process and are now on the way to cementing it. We're one of the few countries that did it. I wouldn't want you to be throwing such facts at something that's absolutely not controversial. You didn't say any arguments, which alternative economic policy, which alternative budgetary policy we could have led since the end of 2014 when we started making a reform plan to date. That's what I'm asking you to say. Saying that we are lower in income than others when we were in decline, so we turned up, that's true, but irrelevant. So we have this realization of the changes that we've made possible by these reforms that we're doing is what we want to do. Of course there are things that we can talk about one way or another, that we can argue about, but don't argue with the data, let's just say, that the debt has grown ten billion. I've said 15 times so far it's a completely pointless claim. In 2012, it was the result of the inert. Every man who knows physics will tell you that the inert of a ship that goes 20 miles an hour, when you turn the rudder, he'll take another hour forward and start turning. Now we've achieved that we've turned around. Now don't tell me about what happened before, but about what happened from when we did it to today, because it's a discussion that's true, but irrelevant. I'm asking you to put a political debate on that field where there are options. Where there are no options, let's not discuss it. So whether or not she needed gondola, it's a completely different question than whether our growth is lower and the wages are lower, the question for you is, it's not because we want them to be lower, but because we don't see how they can be more and it can be sustainable. That's a nice thing to say. We had a 35 billion-dollar space to allow the projected budget to increase wages in the public sector and we allowed that. More than that, we as the Ministry of Finance think it wouldn't be right. The way it's divided, that's what the whole government decides, that's what I say. Everyone has to decide, and you're going to have a chance to talk about what pay is, how to dynamically even them, how to get what the whole world wants to have, and that's to pay is to be proportionate to work and to risk. Some professions are well paid, but these professions are very risky. Sportsmen are paid in the world very much, but their career lasts for five years and only they at the top are paid like that, not everyone else. We need to know in every sector where we are and what we do. I don't mind discussing it, but I'd like you to be focused on some subject and I can answer you in terms of alternatives. I can only answer your facts here. You're quoting facts that aren't relevant. What's relevant, what we said yesterday, and yesterday I told you that debt has grown minimally, which is completely consistent. Otherwise, you say we lie and steal. I tell you, it's completely incorrect. So our debt has grown since 2015, since the reforms started, right by the deficit, plus a slight change in liquidity. All the rest are calculated changes that resulted in a period of unfavourable course movements for us, and in the last period of favourable course movement. Don't talk about it professionally, it's simple. Politically, don't politicize more than you could. Are you suggesting that Serbia takes the strategy of former Romania, to completely give up the use of foreign resources, i.e. resources outside the country? We can talk about that too. I'll be extremely against it. If you say there are risks of borrowing, I agree. If you say there are risks of directing things to anything, I agree, but, let's just say, I don't agree that we can at the same time, at the same time, as you say, give everything. Now, that just can't. It's called choice of priorities. We choose those priorities that need, above all, to ensure stability, to get out of this crisis, to create new jobs, to permanently increase GDP. We said that this time it leads, and it confirms everything to us, that it leads to a more stable rate of GDP growth, as we couldn't in 2014 predict basic disasters, so we can't predict what might further affect our growth. In conditions that prevail today, we expect at least 3.5% of the growth, and we just said that. You have the right to slow down, but don't make an impression here that your eloquence means you're right. It doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27022	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica of Mr Alexic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27023	You, Minister, are absolutely right when you call for physics and inert in those processes, but unfortunately, I have to say, you're talking to the wrong people. Physicu, as far as I can see, ended that great political genius Vuk Tadic. You've heard of him for sure. That's the man who almost marketed the party. But as much as physics knows, I wouldn't go into it. I hope she knows better than she knows diplomacy. As for this question that we have raised today, it is interesting that in two minutes a man does not even look back on what was a direct question – where there were those minus three comas slightly growth, so on. Growth? What year was that? Is that the golden age we're talking about here? Let's get this straight, if you run the topic, push it all the way, apologize and explain it. No, they say alienation from the people. What is this level of alienation from the people when someone lists, as far as it was, 3.6m euros on travel around the world, the effect for the country is 0, spends that money just to advertise in person and then to stay in the best possible places, the most expensive locations, the most expensive hotels, all of it is small, but it still comes to these people's couples, how much, 55,000 euros puts into its pocket, preparing for what, for some place in the UN. What is the level of alienation and absence of any sense of how the people live, what the state needs and what that someone should do for that country and that people. That some here would be very happy to call on, for example, a Romanian road trip, and there the minister was right. I remember the 2017 campaign well from the ranks of those who supported the great political winner of Tadic's Jeremic. I think every day they showed pictures of demonstrations in Romania and those creepy scenes of broken heads. Is that what they meant when they called for a Romanian example and a Romanian route, I hope not. Subsidy, folks, I'm done with this, Mr. Chairman, get this thing out of the way. If you're really against them, one, tell the people who got a job based on them – no, you shouldn't have gotten a job and another thing, return those tractors you got through subsidies.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27024	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. Mr. Alexic, you have no basis for replication. We're moving on with our work. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27025	I thank the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the end of the year is certainly the moment in which we need to discuss the budget but also the opportunity to hear the fastest possible arguments and the widest possible story. I see this as an opportunity to discuss and sum up the results so far, to talk about plans for 2018, but also to talk about proposals in addition to budgets on today's agenda. The data we have received clearly shows that these plans have a basis and basis in current management and work. The savings have made room for bonus approval, remuneration for employees, or beneficiaries of budget funds, and these are changes that have been made to reward those who have suffered the greatest burden in terms of stabilising financing in the Republic of Serbia. What is crucial is that this decision is sustainable, that it is planned from real and existing means and that it was made when conditions were created for it. When it comes to financial support for families with children, this is a clear indicator of the government of the Republic of Serbia to strengthen and support the Serbian family and to provide a clear support mechanism for families with children at the moment when it is most needed. This measure is extremely important at the moment when the family has increased expenditure and therefore the spending will be more financially. Another measure that has been adopted in this proposal is the reduction of the necessary documentation to achieve these duties, and this is extremely significant, but also better protection for the maternity care, as all fees are paid directly to its account, and not on the account of the employer and these duties will not depend on the current financial situation of the employer, but in fact the Republic and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will take over the role of the employer. Additional protection, i.e. additional compensation, is provided for women based on the birth and care of children and is provided for persons engaged in their own activities or are owners of agricultural holdings, employed under the Treaty of Labour or the Treaty of Copyright. The law provides for compensation for the cost of staying in preschool institutions for children coming from families who are beneficiaries of social assistance, as well as a refund of the cost of staying in preschool institutions for children whose families are materially at risk. What I would like to point out when it comes to the budget is an increased asset, i.e. 87 billion when it comes to the subsidies identified, and these are the funds identified by capital investments. A large part of these funds are defined for infrastructure. If I'm not mistaken, 40% is scheduled for the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Construction, and that's what we need most at this point, to continue building highways, to continue rebuilding and resuscitating existing roads, because it's an opportunity to connect with the region and be more attractive to investors, to enable more investment to arrive, to create new jobs. Seventeen billion for the expropriation was allocated to the finance ministry. I am particularly pleased that the 2018 plan also includes the innovation of the plan that exists for the Moravia Corridor and it refers to the alignment with the picture on the ground, i.e. the alignment with the spatial plan and the water protection in the corridor zone. Serbia's Public Enterprise has conducted a public procurement to amend the plan. It is important to point out that compared to the change in this spatial plan, it is working to protect against water, or on the construction of the canal. What is also significant is that there are even two interested investors for this project and I do not have to mention how important this will be for connecting Corridors 10 and 11 for 500,000 residents living on this move from Cicevic, Stalac, Kruševac, Trstenik, Kraljevska and Cačka and that this will be our opportunity to be more accessible to investors and to create new jobs. It is significant that capital projects are implemented in all parts of Serbia with the help of the Republic, it is evenly invested in all parts and only in Tristenik is at the end of the work on the first roundabout worth 70 million dinars, which would certainly not be possible without the help of the Republic and which will have a significant impact on security on this magistrate's path. A recently completed reconstruction of another part of the Master's Road worth 150m dinars in Stopa, also significant for the very appearance of this piece and for the safety of the road, as parking, public lighting and sidewalks were made. The Public Investment Management Office is something that is also very important and that allows us to invest in our schools, our institutions, to restructure, energy efficiency. In Triestenik, at the beginning of this year 10 million dinars were granted for two schools, and now at the end of the year for two close to 70 million, and these are the funds that the municipality certainly couldn't provide on its own, and it's very important for us. I am particularly pleased that in the programme of this budget, I have seen the funds for the Public Investment Management Office increase, and that is very important, that it will be 2,944,573,000 dinars, which means that investment will only be and all we need to do is prepare ourselves with projects and be ready to wait for these competitions. When it comes to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, for institutions in the field of sports and physical culture an increase of 26.5%, therefore 93.450, which is also very important and we will have plenty of opportunities in the coming year to invest in these facilities. As far as the Ministry of Economy is concerned, 1.9 billion and expenditure on subsidies are foreseen for regional development, as many as 13 billion are intended for private businesses. When it comes to the Ministry of Defence, there are forecast increases. So 67 billion is defined, of which for machine and equipment expenditure 13.2 billion. I must point out that over the past year, the Triestean's Trieste has received 3.5m euros in funding for modernising machinery, which is a prerequisite for getting into new jobs, for doing new jobs, for hiring new young people. The agriculture ministry continues to invest. Therefore, subsidies are provided for in the amount of 800 million dinars. The budget fund for water, we record an increase of 40%, an increase in subsidies among other things, and the Agrarian Payments Authority 11.8%. What we can hear all the time are actually criticisms at the expense of the government and the ministries, but what I have to mention is one little thing we forget, which is that the minister is not becoming with the help of the embassy and the media, but the minister is also being able to help the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with their support and trust. All of this would be better, but it doesn't matter if, although it muds the government and the work of the ministry, it uses subsidies that the ministry grants, so we have in today's paper that my previous speaker has achieved 893,833 dinars of incentive to buy tractors for his agricultural land. Congratulations. This is a great message. In your time, at the time of the predecessors, no one who was not part of the ruling government could achieve a dinar subsidy, and today subsidies are available to everyone, and that's great. I also understand the fear of repeating the results of the Milutovac elections when only two votes were won in the repeat presidential elections. By contrast, the SNS won 90% of the Milutovac population's votes. Alexander Vukitch has gained great trust. I must point out that citizens live in Milotovac, both in Kostolc, and in Presevo, and not only in Belgrade, but we must devote ourselves to the development of Serbia as a whole and invest in all Serbia. Given the predetermined funds for investment in all key areas, which is infrastructure, economy, agriculture, I am convinced that this planned budget will lead to a balanced development of all parts of Serbia and an improvement in the quality of life of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27026	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27027	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, and I think you've broken it harshly. First of all, Minister Vujovic politely and politely urged me to state the views of alternative economic policy. You wouldn't let me. Also, in his presentation, he brought up some things that stem from the misreading of my presentation because he was late for the session and didn't come in time. You don't give me the right to a two-minute replica, but that's why you give the Messenger Orlic a replica on the line. So you've broken the Rules of Procedure twice. The first thing you didn't let me answer to the minister, which I was absolutely right about, and then you gave Orlic twice. This says that you do not really want normality in this parliament and when someone from the opposition wants to discuss the normal, cultural and civilised budget, about the most important document on the life of Serbian citizens, you do not allow it. You can't just tie your hands to the opposition's MPs and hide the truth. She will eventually reach the citizens. Sooner or later they'll figure it out. What you're doing is a brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Milicevic, and you know it very well, and you abuse the function in which you now find yourself in this way and produce tension here and blame the opposition for causing chaos in parliament, making a variety of scenarios. No, that's what you do, and you've been doing it tendingly for two years now with the idea of bringing down the highest legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia, the most legislative body, and I ask you not to do it in the future. If you want normality in this House, give a normal discussion, normal controversy on both sides.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27028	Mr. Alexic, we have a perfectly normal discussion. Whether I, as the chairman, have broken the Rules of Procedure or not, that will be said by the MPs in the voting day. Article 104(3) - the exercise of the rights referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this Article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly, in particular by the Chairman. During your presentation, to remind you, you challenged the replica by mentioning political parties, and that was the basis for the announcement of fellow Orlic. After that, you received an additional two minutes to explain and ask specific questions. You mentioned some political parties again and you received very concrete answers from Minister Vujovic and did not speak negatively in the context of your dialogue. On the contrary, I realized that he commended you and said you were very eloquent. I ask you, do you wish the People's Assembly to make a statement in the day of the vote about the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27029	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 103 on the subject of an article. The 107th and 108th centuries of 7th and 8th talk about when someone abuses the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then the time of the MP group is taken away. Article 103 speaks of the fact that the violation of the Rules of Procedure can be pronounced as I am now directly following the done injury of the Rules of Procedure, and since you did not hurt it during Mrs. Turk's statement, this injury was untimely, it has become a replica, and it has hurt dignity, as the budget is being debated, a person who always participates in budget expenditure. He never participates in income. He's like that wolf descendant. I think he's in the party right now. He always participates in expenses. He had an allowance of 28,000 euros a month. This spent 55 million dinars in three years on an NGO. The violation of the National Assembly's dignity since the budget is being discussed, for these uninformed, that the person who always participates in the expenditure, the person who received this year from this party state that is not worth 893,000 dinars per tractor. So that's how many states on the spending side were directed by a colleague who advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Zoran Krasic throws. Don't throw it at me. Get these when they're talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27030	Mr. Risticevic, please speak to me. Just tell me what the injured member is in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27031	So, the person who always participates in expenditures, the person who embezzled 55 million dinars for the care of old faces, which no one in Tristenik can find, the person who had a rural public enterprise with one employee, i.e. It is the last one that can violate the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to apply the measure set out in Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27032	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. It may have been the basis for applying the measure from the member you mentioned, but there is no possibility because the parliamentary group has no time. You have nothing to take away. Mr. Risticevic, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the reported injury? Zoran Krasic throws. ) Mr. Risticevic speaks to me. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? No, I don't. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27033	And a member of the 109th, Mr. Chairman. You're quite right about this argument that when a parliamentary group no longer has time to argue, you can't take that time away. That's what his colleague pointed to earlier and called for. 107th and 108th, which speak of measures. I'd like to make things more specific. Article 109 speaks of a concrete measure that can be applied when someone abuses the rights of the Rules of Procedure. I think he abuses it when he uses it to give political speeches and it just happened when he was a representative of Vuk Tadic's Jeremic, he's right, Mr Risticevic, he almost got his party and representatives in the Assembly when he marketed that party, when that man took advantage of the right to advertise his Rules of Procedure to give a speech. I think you should have interrupted it safely at that moment, and then moved on to a further application of the measures to which you are entitled and bound by the Rules of Procedure. In particular, 109 gives you the right to give a warning. I don't agree with the fact that the Rules of Procedure is being misused for speech, and we need to narrow it down as soon as it starts to happen. For example, you shouldn't let anyone stand up here saying that you're not a dictator, and you're letting them speak beyond all rules and rights. I think that's where you should react, so if someone disobeys your warning then a warning to give. I think you should allow every time someone wants to get up and explain here that Vuk Tadic has spent millions of dollars on the best hotels, on nice travels, expensive destinations and 55,000 euros on his own, but not to keep talking about answering questions here through the Rules of Procedure. After all, I think you should allow someone to make a public statement if they want the Serbian citizen to declare solemnly that he is ready because he disagrees with the subsidies to return the tractor that he received through these subsidy programmes. But don't let them warn you, if you have to say a warning when someone abuses it. After all, if he wants to ask Boris Tadic and allow it, even though there would probably be no parliamentary group and no other time to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27034	Mr. Orlic, thank you. My goal is to fully apply Article 108 and to take care of order at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session and my only goal is to have a constructive and democratic debate, and I can't be, as you just quoted one of the few speakers, the dictator. On the contrary, I want an open democratic debate and a democratic confrontation of opinions, and you know that I am reluctant to apply those most difficult and harsh sanctioning measures. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27035	Thank you. I speak on the basis of Article 32. I also draw attention to the fact that this session has started badly, only because of the fact that we are discussing a budget that is one of the 31 points of the agenda. I would like to draw attention to the MPs of the people, both of them and those of you, not to use the time of the shooting to make an impression in public to speak. Very important topics are on the agenda and we, unfortunately, will not be able to talk about the budget, when it comes to amendments, because there are many amendments, will be spent all the time before we reach the budget and therefore, Mr. Milicevic, please be a little more flexible. Ministers are here to answer the questions of the MPs and they're acting that way for now. You must also allow MPs, if anyone reports for a replica, does not mean that the minister should curse him, that he may be entitled to a replica or vice versa. The minister brings out some of his visions, the government's position, etc. The MP, whoever it is, has the right to speak up. If you will formally respect the Rules of Procedure, you can do anything by the Rules of Procedure, I once told you that you can vote and that the country is a flat plate but it will remain round, free of you. So it's not just about 127 of these green-colored tasters, it's about having to create conditions that this session that the public wants to know about, that's about to increase wages, someone's going to increase, someone won't, and about raising pensions, and about capital investments, a lot of important things are on the agenda. If we're going to turn this session into a shootout, and you're going to contribute to it for now, then this is no good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27036	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I understand your suggestion as very well-intentioned and I respect and apply Article 27. I agree with you completely that we have a very important and important session, a very important and significant agenda point and that there is no reason for political bickering, given the importance of topics, the importance of agenda points, the importance of the session. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27037	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Milicevic, I am advertising Article 27 because you are obliged to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, and you have misused it again, and it is rude, because you have allowed an MP to advertise an article. 107th and 108th, which do not speak at all about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. A man who's a reality star and a grain merchant from a supply reserve whose wife is now serving a prison sentence you've allowed to give us lectures on good behavior... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27038	Mr. Alexic, I will not allow you to continue your political bickering and replication. So each of the MPs has the opportunity and the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I will not allow you to replicate through the stated breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with our work. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27039	Dear chairman, respected guests from the government of the Republic of Serbia, respected colleagues and colleagues in parliament, yes, it is very difficult for citizens to hear this debate, so it's hard for me to speak. Namely, since I come from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, I would like to refer to what concerns the transfers of the AP Vojvodina... Mr. Chairman, will you please introduce order?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27040	Please allow our colleague Lazic to discuss. I'll give you your time back, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27041	So, I want to look back, given the time I have at my disposal, on what concerns the transfers of AP Vojvodina, since I come from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, that is, I come from Vojvodina. The total transfers and funds channelled from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the APV budget, i.e. the province of Vojvodina, amount to about 65 billion dinars, representing about 5.5% of the total planned funds for this year, which means that Vojvodina will not get at least 7%, at least as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That amount should be deducted from the transfer of employees in education and amounts to only 34 billion dinars for all other needs in Vojvodina. I know that there are other sources, etc., but I'm only talking about what's in this part, which is about 285m euros and with this much resources, and despite those other funds that Vojvodina has the right to do, they are not and can't talk about development. In a position – non-purpose transfers, I want to look only at certain parts, non-purpose transfers to cities, municipalities from the territory of the AP Vojvodina is directed to 7.7 billion dinars, of 33, about 33, which is about 23% for the whole territory of Serbia. For 14 undeveloped or poorly-developed municipalities in Vojvodina, about two billion dinars have been identified and ranged from 77 million, for example, to up to 223 million for Kovacica. For example, undeveloped Irig, who interests me in particular, gets 86 million, and let's say some other places, like Jagodina, get 300 or 409 million Librarian, Opo's 83. I don't want to reduce any of these other people who are getting funds from this position. The minimum funds in this table, which can be seen, are for the Sremske Karlovci – 36 million, and Lajkovac – 23. My question – on what criteria are these funds allocated? As for the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, 50 million dinars are defined, which is about 420,000 euros, for the capital project the fast traffic of Novi Sad-Rum, which is about 9% less than in 2017. I will remind myself, I have also asked this as a parliamentary question, it has been announced that land expropriation will be completed in this year and that the documentation will be completed, which means that it should start construction in 2018. But with these resources, it is obvious that this construction will not start, although in the Vojvodina media it is announced as one of the great investments. Just a parallel to do – to build a gondola in Belgrade, we've heard that on a few occasions, it defines 360 million dinars, which means that a more important gondola for a tourist tour of the city of Belgrade is more important than a road passing more than 12,000 cars a day and it is a really extremely burdened traffic station. This time it's literally patched up, there's no support walls, it's obviously not being invested, and when this highway is going to be built, you don't know. No other time, such as the Banatical Highway, is mentioned in this budget, so I don't know whether it is seen in the future as a capital investment or not. As far as the railways are concerned, there have been significant increases compared to the previous year, and that's good. However, something that may sound like a trivial commentary, but who is in charge of turning railway stations along the railway line, say Subotica-Belgrade, who should do moving stairs at the train station Novi Sad, which, unfortunately, has been turned from former beauty into a devastated facility. It's simple, the passengers can't climb the platform. Is it an obligation of local self-government or "the railway of Serbia"? Unfortunately, while there was a "Vojvodine Railway" we also had railways and arranged stations, now these local railways are mostly shut down, the equipment has been devastated and the stations have been abandoned. As for the Ministry of Health, it has allocated about 618m dinars for the transfer of Vojvodina, for equipment and reconstruction of buildings, which is good, but when translated into euro, it is about 5.2m euros. I will remind you that there are 44 health homes in Vojvodina, one clinical center, nine general hospitals, 11 specialist hospitals, four institutions and 10 state pharmacies, which you unfortunately have led to the collapse and are now shutting down. These funds wouldn't be enough to build a city hospital that Novi Sad doesn't have, and the question is when they'll get it, especially to separate funds for other institutions. Health care continues to be a ban on employment, which is unfortunately an illustration of the poor impact on the quality of public services and the lives of citizens. In health care because of the austerity and ban measures, there is a shortage of about 2500. As far as health care is concerned, Vojvodina is the most likely to be affected by the exodus of medical workers from the country and by natural spillage through the shift of generations. But unfortunately, however, out of the total number of newly employed medical staff in Serbia, after the minister's approval, only slightly more than 13% has been identified as the province. In many places in Vojvodina, hospitals and laboratories have been shut down, the doctor comes once a week. In such circumstances, there is no talk of prevention and early detection of the disease. I think this measure directly endangers the health and life of citizens. In particular, I would like to stress the disastrous position of environmental protection in this draft budget. The environment ministry envisions a transfer of about 20 million dinars to Vojvodina as a new position, based on the Waste Management Act, which is around 170,000 euros, the cost of a larger apartment in downtown Belgrade or a garage in "Belgrade on Water". In Vojvodina, only on the route of Novi Sad-Belgrade, there are three large dumps along the E75 highway, two of which are legal, one of which is wild and literally pouring out onto the highway. The largest of them is this one at Novi Sad, which is normally, as you know, the European Capital of Culture for 2021. This dump's long gone. It should be a capital investment and it is about 28m euros in value, however it is not in the budget, as well as wastewater treatment facilities in Novi Sad, which is roughly worth around 100m euros. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe now some data's more recent, so maybe they're even bigger numbers. All the sewers are poured out in Novi Sad in the Danube in the middle of the promenade. Unfortunately for me, the devastating fact that in this budget, the Ministry of Environment received only 5.8 billion dinars, representing about 0.5% of this year's budget. If I'm wrong, please correct me. The income from an eco-cab that amounted to about 38 billion dinars should be part of the "green fund" and all these funds return to the environment, however, has been channelled through a budget fund of about three billion dinars, which means that "green dinar" will be spent for other purposes rather than for capital projects that are important for environmental protection. I think the government's position is extremely damaging and it turns out that we've been painting for nothing, i.e. for nothing has been specifically formed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In particular, I would like to stress the disastrous position of environmental protection in this draft budget. The environment ministry envisions a transfer of about 20m dinars to Vojvodina as a new position, based on the Waste Management Act, which is about 170,000 euros, as much as it costs a larger apartment in downtown Belgrade or in Belgrade on water. In Vojvodina, only on the route of Novi Sad-Belgrade, there are three large dumps along the highway E-75 of which are two, so I call them legal, and one is wild and literally pouring out onto the highway. The biggest of them is this one at Novi Sad, which is usually, as you know, the European Capital of Culture for 2021. This dump has long crossed the allowed angle, it should be a capital investment and it is about 28m euros in value. However, it is not in the budget, as well as wastewater treatment plants in Novi Sad, which is, again, roughly worth around 100m euros, perhaps I'm wrong, perhaps now some data is more recent, so they may be larger figures. And all that sewerage is poured out in Novi Sad in the Danube, in the middle of the promenade. Unfortunately, for me, the devastating fact that in this budget, this ministry, the Ministry of Environment, has received only 5.8 billion dinars, representing about 0.5% of this year's budget. If I'm wrong in my maths, please correct me. The income from an eco taxi, which amounted to about 38 billion dinars, should be part of the so-called. The Green Fund and get all those funds back to the environment. However, it has been channelled through the budget fund of about three billion dinars, which means that green dinar will be spent for other purposes, not for capital projects that are important for environmental protection. I think the government's position is extremely damaging and it turns out that we've been painting for nothing, i.e. for nothing, a special Ministry of Environmental Protection has been formed, and I'm going to remind the members of the green parliamentary group that have just been advocated to finally single out a special Ministry of Environmental Protection. Minister Trivan made statements on the environment and in general made statements on the environment, that it is crucial to our future and that the priorities of the issue of wastewater, municipal waste, shaming, etc. Now I ask him – whether with this money at his disposal, or which the Ministry and the Fund will have, he can solve problems in these areas. The draft budget, in the section of 24 agriculture ministries, does not show the location of ice-breaking procurement. In fact, last winter we had a so-called. icy flood, i.e. the appearance of ice on the international waterways of Tis, Sava, Danube, leading to interruption of navigation and damage to infrastructure facilities, docks, boats, etc. The people from Hungary, whose rent has been paid, are hired to correct me if I'm wrong, about 80 million dinars, from the budget reserve and from the Water Fund. Let me remind you, Hungary has 22 ice-crackers. It was then promised, at least in the media it was announced that Serbia would get ice-colders. I ask Minister Nedimovic - whether he trusts only the good forecast that this winter will be mild or statistics that will not repeat the cold winter as it was last, so he does not think that we need these objects. And now, as a comparison, the budget raises multiple funds for the purchase of arms, military and police equipment and provides for the construction of several prisons, so I wonder what our perspective is, if these are priorities, instead of investment in education, health care, environmental protection, i.e. areas where investments are needed through and on which the lives of citizens depend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27042	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27043	I thank you for the very comprehensive display of your view of the AP Vojvodina's position in this budget and all the instruments. I just want to draw your attention to a few things and a few of the provisions in which this budget is being prepared and within which transfers and all relevant sizes are being calculated. We have, in an anticipating this discussion, made a very detailed list that we can give you, all transactions, which, in our opinion, according to the Budgetary System Act and by the Budget Law, Article 7, of this proposed Budget Act, Article 7, affect these transfers. One of the key sizes in that transfer is precisely the revenue the AP Vojvodina generates based on standard participations in standard and tax instruments. It is a profit tax of 18%, which was of course achieved in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, or achieved by people registered in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, that is 42.7% of the amount of corporate tax. Then there are a whole series of other transfers that you've already mentioned here, where the transfer to education of 31 billion is the biggest of them, and it seems to me to be something that goes into the spirit and what it says in the Constitution and what it says about the Budgetary System Act. So if the AP Vojvodina is in charge of this and gets compensation from the budget, we don't have any other resources. If we get paid by employees and make this transfer, then it's a transfer considered legitimate income and legitimate expenditure at the AP Vojvodina level. If that is resolved in another way, by some future law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, then we will discuss other conditions, which is currently in force. Also, dedicated, non-purpose transfers are expected at a level of 7.7 billion, and we are also counting expenditures at the level of the Republic, so they are accounted for both in revenue and in expenditures at the AP Vojvodina level. That's the principle. We can't do that. We can't get it into our incomes and expenses without you coming in. Do you understand me? There just isn't the same treatment, the same symmetry. When you add that up, you add it correctly, it's 61 billion, there's no exceptions. It's like we're excepting, you know, education from the budget, 197 billion to exempt, and then it would look completely different to the budget. Sixty-one billion, and you said rightly, that's 6.17%. In addition, there are a whole series of other categories that we have calculated very conservatively, which amount to 23.5 billion, which are transfers, i.e. the cost of the Serbian-Hungarian Railway project eight billion, subsidies 1.5 billion, i.e. subsidies to businesses, enterprises located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and subsidies that go to agriculture in different forms. Minister Nedimovic will answer you for the ice-colds, and these are those subsidies that go under the total subsidies of agriculture, I don't know exactly how many billions, that I'm not quoting wrong now, so nine billion of them apply to the users of the AP Vojvodina territory. Here we didn't count the participation of the AP Vojvodina in some other measures, where they have the right to participate, so, therefore, since we don't know exactly who will get it, then we didn't count on it at all. So there's going to be company, individual, etc., that's going to get subsidies from this Regional Development Fund, etc., we didn't count on it because we don't know in advance. Ex-post, and it can be calculated, and it can only be positive, no one gets taken away from it. When you add that up, it's 84.5 billion or 8.5%. I'm not saying it's much or small, we're all small. I'm not saying it's easy for you and I'm not saying you don't have a problem with underdeveloped municipalities, I'm not saying anything. I'm just saying, the last time we had a joint cabinet session in Novi Sad, is that right, in the old building of the executive council, we agreed, and some special projects involved. Therefore, we are thinking exactly the same way, in the way that it is defined in the Constitution today, the Budgetary System Act and the Budget Law, according to our estimates of expected income, you will get 8.5%. What I think worries you here is that some of these revenues are directly related to expenditures, but that's right. As we are bound, so here I don't count interest on loans spent on AP Vojvodina territory, which are paid from the Republic's budget. I don't count on it, these parts of credit that we're going to give for future infrastructure, the return of these loans, we're just counting on what's going on actively. So if we were to correct this for all the elements that go in, I'm not saying that that's something that you're supposed to count on, all the elements that go into our incomes and expenditures, or receipts and expenditures, then the situation would be different and surely the expenditure would be greater than these, and since we don't have another source of funding, but this budget, these instruments and these transfers, then that's how it is. That's my message. Let me tell you something else here. There are other transfers here that are carried out, social services, pensions, etc., where, of course, some proportional part of the users are located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and that's where they cover it, but that would be a calculation that's pretty complicated. What I'm saying is, the bill we have is based on the laws of the Constitution, the Law on the Budgetary System and this law here. We are ready to share these figures with you and discuss it, and in the future, when we solve it all, I am ready to discuss everything including project financing, including the programming budget that will include it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27044	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27045	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, ma'am, I would very much like to thank you for this question you have raised. So far we haven't had a chance to talk about it, because during the debate in principle it wasn't a topic, but it's a very great pleasure to have you run this topic, it's about getting ice-cold people. Of course, there is, in the budget of section 24, at programme activity 006, economic classification 512, where there are machines and equipment, 300 million dinars are scheduled for the purchase of ice-colds. This is not a matter that will be done by what little Perica thinks, but there is a study that defined Serbia's needs for ice-collars in the space between Apatin and Belgrade, where we have the biggest problem. For the downstream of Belgrade, we have a regulated way of using the EPS ice-crackers we engage in another way, so the whole thing will be completed in 2018. If you ask me about this transition from 2017 to 2018, a meeting will be held in Hungary between Hungarian colleagues, Croatian colleagues and us, where we will fully arrange how to function until the purchase of new ice creams. There's only one thing I need to draw attention to. Ice creams are not a boat that can be bought in a plastic toy store. It's not like they're in the market, I'm going to go buy them and that's it. We have to order it, we have to design it. I'm not saying that for you, but more for the public, because it's very often mentioned when you build some intersections or anything else, people don't have patience and think that for example. The square in Slavia can be done in 15 minutes by buying at the market, transferring during the night and installing. These are all processes. I am sorry that one 20 years in Serbia did not think this way. Now we do. Thank you for your concern. This will be resolved and I hope that in the 2019 budget we will also plan another ice-cracker, so that we put it all to work in the best possible way and be completely independent in this segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27046	My colleague Lazic, you will be given two minutes, just a moment before you are represented by the promoter, Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27047	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam, as Mr. Nedimovic, thank you for noticing this topic. That's, of course, expected. What is significant to us, without being able to speak too much and without wanting to speak too much, unlike in previous years, we have an increase of about 16% and it is understood that our ambitions are much greater in this regard. And when it comes to Vojvodina, much, much bigger, I must say. That's the way we're gonna have to go. Who understands it or doesn't understand it, that's another question. We understand. What is important to us at the Ministry of Environment, first thanks to all of you, because the support of the Ministry was practically destroyed, to take the opportunity to thank everyone officially for the existence of the Ministry of Environment for the first time in this way, because it was a prerequisite for us to move differently into this story and the initial understanding of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, regardless of what I am now saying is absolutely far from what I expect and what will be, without any dilemma. When it comes to Vojvodina, we have a lot of reasons to deal with a lot of issues in Vojvodina, from the facts you mentioned about wild dumps, because most of them are actually wild dumps, no matter what we call them. I have already, in the contacts we have with Vojvodina and certain cities, come across a full understanding of what needs to be done. The job will be common, because it's not a matter of government, it's a question of our good and healthy life, to what I purposely started, and that's a question of healthy drinking water, for example, in Vojvodina. There are up to 3500 wild dumps in Serbia and more. So, we have a huge job ahead of us and it has practically not been treated as a political issue in Serbia so far, but has been treated in a much more important way. What's the key to the whole story, and it's going to reflect anyway in the next budget, we have a principle agreement with the Ministry of Finance for the current year. We need projects. Without making design technical documentation, which is actually an investment for me, and there may have been some misunderstandings, there's no investing in investment. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. My request to all, especially local self-government, we also had a meeting with most local self-government, is in that direction to sit down and start doing project-technical documentation. The money in the state budget, according to the assurances, will be for that because it will be treated as investments. Our next step in this regard is actually to drive two new sectors in the Ministry of Environment, which are the waste water management and municipal waste management sector on one side and the strategic planning sector. It's precisely because of the goals that we have and these least, let's say, five billion euros that we have to invest in wastewater processing systems, we have to have a waste water management sector, among other things, and we have to have a strategic planning sector to deal with funds, projects, etc. I'll end up here. I could talk for days, of course, about all that. Thank you once again for supporting everyone and for the subject that is undoubtedly our most important to us, no matter how dominant she will be at our meeting these days. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27048	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here you go, colleague Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27049	I would just like to ask Mr Vujovic a question – as a percentage of how much Vojvodina participates in the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget? Just another comment for Minister Trivan. Namely, what you need, it's a huge asset and you said it yourself. But if we don't fight for a larger fund and a different status of this fund, that fund is now a budget fund. I've also pointed out that 38 billion, according to some of the data I have, is the income of the current 50, 100... (Goran Trivan: 10.) All right, ten, it doesn't matter. The media says one thing, the other one, the third one, so I don't know, that I wouldn't talk in my head. But in any case, not all green money is returned. I think his status must be different and that it will change in the future, no matter how much the funds are collected. Secondly, I think that these funds are not all, i.e. by raising funds, by having problems, that inspection services have to work harder, that they need to be strengthened and strengthened to make this system, the whole chain is one closed system that will work well. This is how we're gonna separate from other purposes, and we didn't do anything then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27050	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27051	So, in the protection of the environment, we have the same problem as in most other areas. The question isn't just intent, and it's not about coloring money, as we say. So every penny that's charged over some bad cabs can't mechanically go back to one place right now, especially by transfers over so-called. ‘accounts 463’, since this does not guarantee the achievement of the objectives for which this is done. But we need a strategy here, and I think the new ministry is now going to pay adequate attention to that, to make a strategy and appropriate ways of sending these funds to where the real effects will be achieved. What is important is that not only are these "ecological green dinars" that are being collected from us, but there are other instruments that we want to launch. We talked about how, for example, they can't separate investments in forests related to economic exploitation from investments that have an exceedingly ecological dimension. There's a similar thing about water. You have wastewater treatment projects, controlled streams in flood defenses that have both economic and ecological characteristics. Therefore, we must have a much more complex and better method of monitoring all of this. So, on the one hand, to achieve those goals that we define in Eurointegration, and on the other hand to develop the capacity to do that with us. My thesis is that putting a lot of money up front on transfers won't necessarily result. We need to get the capacity first. Therefore, I want us to create a cap on capacity building and then make good projects for these capacities. We have a whole series of sources that we can use, like KfW and others that help us directly. Look, there are several new projects in the Vojvodina territory to improve the quality of water which is a crucial element. There are many other municipalities in Vojvodina who are looking for it. It just needs to be part of the strategy and to count it all. The second thing, look at these two projects that I already mentioned in the opening exhibition, which is the Waste Water Project for the city of Belgrade, which is the largest city in Serbia and has the biggest problem of waste water directly entering the Sava and Danube on the one hand, and on the other hand the issue of environmental air pollution due to the heat. So these two projects will significantly change Serbia's ecological picture. There's about $470 million planned in this budget that goes into that picture. I think if we have a strategy then we'll be able to look at all the elements and dynamically look at it, because if everyone wants everything that applies to it at any moment, then we're able to plan it optimally in time very limited. I think this parliament is the place where this strategy should be discussed, to know if this year is our priority something, then next year we'll move the priority to something else, but for the record, it's not changing at all. Let me just add one more thing. How much Vojvodina participates, how much Vojvodina contributes to revenues, this is changing and your colleagues have observed well, since Vojvodina has the main incomes from some sources that are quite vulnerable to fluctuations that are not the subject of things of the Serbian economy but of the world, such as NIS. Its profitability and participation of Vojvodina in these revenues depends significantly on the movement of the world market, on the trend of the price of derivatives. Thus, this size is unstable, colleagues have pointed to the problem before. He's inherited. We don't have the right mechanisms to fight him, but that's just the way it is. What I mentioned is what Vojvodina gets directly in the expenditures that we watch and measure. There are other expenditures we don't count on, e.g. as much as Vojvodina has a proportional participation. The largest border crossings, and therefore customs and police, etc., are just located in the territory of the Vojvodina, but we don't count on these things. We consider these to be the geographical characteristics of Serbia and we simply do not want to reduce the number of people on Horgos and Batrovci because they are in Vojvodina, and Vojvodina has crossed the quota. These are effects on both employment and construction and everything else. So when we have one strategy that would take all of this into account, we can easily calculate. We tell you that you participate 8.5% in Serbia's tax revenues, because we don't count on non-tax returns, and they come true, among other things, with you, and we can calculate these other things if you want, but that shouldn't be an indication of Vojvodina. In most municipalities, it is more developed than the average of Serbia. There are some underdeveloped, but in most municipalities it's more developed. We'll look at the statistics, then you'll see. There are underdeveloped municipalities, so the average is lower. Vojvodina has some undeveloped municipalities that bring down the average, and most municipalities are more developed than the average of Serbia. My family's from kickinda, so I have the right and subjective side to speak of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27052	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Minister Goran Trivan is represented by a representative of the proposal. Here you go. You didn't want a word? Excuse me, you were in the system. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27053	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dragan Markovic Palma, the president of the United Serbia's parliamentary group, said yesterday that we would support this budget and that is one of the reasons why we have not put any amendments to this law. I have to tell you that I have entered politics from the real sector. The owner of the company where I worked very often at the operational meetings he knew how to say – the Đura wheel is rolling, the wheel is running Your wheel is rolling. I also have to tell you that the "Serbian wheel" of yesterday is on UNESCO's list of non-national cultural heritage, but I want to talk about this first round, this one that's tugging or flying. To be honest, I've been following these budgets since 2012 and when the Prime Minister was Alexander Vukic, 2016 and 2017, he was present here, giving equal answers to both the position and the opposition. The rhythm that the congregation then worked for was very different from today. I've got a feeling we're kind of going around. I don't know what the problem is. But, as the president of Unity Serbia, Dragan Markovic, Palma, said yesterday, and you could hear that, that he has given almost all ministers individual support, and I say -- the Single Serbia parliamentary group supports all ministers. I have to tell you, when it comes to the budget, this isn't the first budget we're making. This is one good budget, and all the laws we make here are good laws. But we have another problem. At some lower levels, first of all I think about locals and one part of public enterprises, always somehow instead of keeping those local and city budgets, they're looking for some holes in the law and trying, perhaps unconsciously, but they're able to do serious damage. I want to tell Minister Voulina that when he was Minister of Labour and Social Policy two years ago, I told him – Minister, I want to inform you that two public enterprises do not pay taxes and contributions, and neither do social workers. You told me then – that's certainly not true, I'll check. After that, of course, we haven't heard, you're the Secretary of Defense today, I congratulate you on that. Now I want to tell Minister Djordjevic – Mr Djordjevic, there are two public enterprises in Vrnjačka Banja where taxes and contributions are not paid day and day. One company that has a tradition and lasts about 30 years, and another company was founded to replace this first, to forgive these debts and disappear. Unfortunately, even in this new company, they don't pay. That's transparent. Why do I tell you this? I'm sure. I, Mr. Minister, am an MP under oath and I have never told a lie here. You can check that out. You'll see your associates. So, what I'm saying is that workers who have an obligation to go to doctors can't do that, i.e. They can if they have something to pay. So I'm asking you to go out on a date, find a way and help people in local self-government so these things don't happen anymore. Yesterday we had, when local self-government, another good proposal by Dragan Markovic Palma, and that's what I mean to Mr Vujovic, it's quite logical, you heard yesterday that when big investments are made, and the investor accepts paying him in some wars, then we can't call on RINO. But the problem is that in Vranjska Banja, local self-government, RINO doesn't mean anything, and at this point we have much greater obligations than the real situation we can afford. Two years ago, we had a budget in front of us here, and I told Mr. Vukovic two things, and I'm going to repeat them now. The first thing is that, Mr. Vujovicu, you run one of the most responsible resistors in this government. I know it's not easy for you and I understand what happened the day before, when you're provoked to the side because as far as I know the whole situation, you've come here as an expert, not as a politician, and we should all be honored by what you're saying, and if we think you're wrong, we should say it in an argument. That's what I'm thinking today. The second thing I told you at the time was that Germany's economy at any time when they had some huge collapse in the system of reaching for economic resources, which were mostly forests, is a great wealth that Serbia has, too. We in Vrnjačka Banja have 8,600 hectares that we have owned outside the "Serbishum" for 27 years. I've always praised it, but now I want to criticize it. Why? Because an organized criminal group has tried to do such damage in the forests that Vranjacka Banja has to do in three, four years back, that's also an interesting question for the Minister of Ecology, whether we'll ever be able to compensate for that damage. Since I also see Mr. Stefanovic here, the minister of police, I want to commend him because the police have responded first in the last month and a half and arrested several people who, freely I can say, are involved in organised crime. I also want to commend Mr Stefanovic for having received new cars and on his promise that new uniforms will arrive very soon. That's what I'm telling you, but probably all the colleagues who travel to Belgrade, when they stop us, the first thing the police ask us is when uniforms arrive. Here, the minister promised that the uniforms would arrive very soon. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, a minister who can stay and must remain enrolled in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism, when it comes to the ministry she deals with and the problem she needs to solve. Of course, you said yesterday, don't do it yourself, there's one team big where probably all the ministers are involved and that's the thing that might be a little bit more than all the things this budget is talking about. I want to tell you that there wouldn't be a Brussels Agreement or many other things if we were on time, that some generations before us had taken care of birth and of natural culture. So, Minister, I'll ask you, the budget is what it is, we'll vote for it. I will ask you to find a way to give this ministry, this portfolio, additional funds to Minister Djukic Dejanovic, because this is a problem that certainly cannot be solved with as much money as is available, but there are certainly times and opportunities, as Dragan Markovic Palma said yesterday, not all ministers have to spend money to come up with good ideas and to realise some good plans. Here I am, the chairman. So I just want to say it one more time, and I have to inform the Ministers, I apologize, Roses one thing. Mr. Minister, the Minister of Local Self-Government has opened before you a while ago in Vrnjak Banja an electronic system of municipal administration. I can tell you he's been working for 12 minutes. As the current Minister of Local Self-Government, I would like to inform you of this and ask that this system in Vranjska Banja function again. I know I don't have any more time. So I repeat one more time, a single Serbian parliamentary group will support both the budget and a full set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27054	Thank you, colleague Vujic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27055	Thank you. Let me just say about what MP Vujic said. The truth is on the previous year we had a chance to get a bigger number of uniforms for cops and firemen, and intervention and working uniforms, and those, of course, that protect with maximum protection against high temperatures. A complete uniform has been obtained for all the gendarmes. At this point by the end of this month, a complete uniform for border police and police intervention units will be obtained and delivered, which is one large part of the police composition, and thus we will be fully in that period of time that in fact all officers have a new uniform and it will be in regular, as the rules provide for deadlines and renewals. Of course, in addition to getting a uniform, we will work to modernise the entire police system that serves Serbian citizens at the same time. In fact, when citizens turn to the police, when police stations apply for different services provided by police, we will try to have the opportunity to do so in electronic form, but not only that, but also, in fact, with much less waiting, even though waitings are minimal today, so there are almost no police stations in which they are present. I've been checking, so, except for when it's seasonal, when one part of our citizens who live abroad comes along, except for those periods, there's no more traffic on our boarders. We've got one larger number of computers, one part even from donations, and these computers are now being prepared, new applications are being put on them, and we're going to be in the next two months, I guess we're going to need, rebuilding a large number of computers in police stations, especially where there's an operative, where cops work with citizens, and, of course, where the administrative jobs are, and later, elsewhere. I'm glad to see that we're going to be able to get close, to say, to those countries that succeed, that have managed to be completely modernised in that sense. The next big phase is going, and that's what we have to think about, next to, say, raising the salary of 10%, and besides everything the cops get this year and the bonuses, let's say, on their salaries, despite what I can give them through vehicles and uniforms, so we'll see what we can do next about working conditions, which is, of course, improving police stations. Many police stations are 50, 60, 70 years old. Many were also unconditional at the time they were moved in, and therefore we want to allow new buildings through a modern approach that will allow citizens to have easier availability, but of course that police officers have better and more efficient working conditions. We want to show concern for these people, and thank you for noticing this, it is indeed a great effort both by the Government and the President and Parliament, it is a great effort by the state to show respect for the entire security sector, for all the people who are fighting for security in this country, who want Serbia to be a normal and strong state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27056	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. Comrade Vujic, you wanted a replica, since you're in the system? No, I don't. I'm sorry. Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27057	Respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers, I'm glad you're here, that you can finally hear something the opposition is talking about, since, as you know, we don't have much opportunity to see each other on television. The opposition are mostly banned from access to television with national frequencies, so it's good that at least here we can talk about some important issues. I'll start with something that the finance minister started from when he exhibited, when he had an opening statement on this budget, and that's from a sacrifice for a better tomorrow. So he was saying that over the past few years, we've been through victims who show up in pay and pension cuts and that it was necessary to reduce public spending, which was huge, because this is what the previous governments have left us. This other thing is all true. The situation was really bad because the previous governments had been spending unreasonablely and then, as a solution, it was found that the victim for this fiscal consolidation was found in public sector employees and pensioners. They have reduced salaries and pensions, and thus largely achieve successes in the fiscal policy expressed in the reduced budget deficit and in the smaller public debt. It's okay and it's commendable. Did pensioners and public sector employees really have to pay, submit this sacrifice? Let me tell you that a few things in the budget that show that there are still great proportions in who should actually make a sacrifice for this fiscal consolidation, which is why it is done on salaries and pensions, and not on some other things that involve the great irresponsibility of the people who run the ministries and run this country. Let's say the fines and the penalty for next year are projected to be 18 billion dinars. You know, it's money that's going to be paid from the budget to some people in the government being irresponsiblely doing their job and doing it today, not five, six, seven or ten years ago, but today. What makes the courts have to force the government to pay those fines and foams, and she will pay it again for the money of Serbian citizens? If we had more responsible ministers, more responsible ministries, more responsible civil servants, maybe these fines and foams would be smaller. Let me give you one comparison, so on fines and penalty this year we're paying 18 billion dinars, or next year, and only for the wages we've reduced since 2015 to today we're saving a little more than 20 billion dinars. So to assume the situation in which the state is responsible for judicial proceedings, according to the obligations it has and, say, to reduce these penalties and penalty to zero, we wouldn't have to cut public sector employees' salaries at all. We give subsidies 42 billion dinars next year. So, when you exclude subsidies for agriculture, for culture, this is also huge money. All this money or a huge part of this money is going to cover current businesses, salaries in public enterprises or social enterprises that are not yet privatised, as well as subsidies in economies that are expected to grow large. As you know, for those of you who have little understanding in the economy, this creates a great moral hazard, i.e. When you tell someone in advance that you will constantly cover his losses or wages in his business, she has no reason to reorganize her business and behave more responsibly in business. A large number of public companies are making losses and a large number of public enterprises are doing it precisely because they know there is someone to cover their future losses. The minister said she would come here today to inform us about how subsidies to the economy contribute to GDP growth. She didn't come today, I don't know why, but I'll give you just one brief review. If the subsidy policy we have been carrying out for several years is so good, it would likely be reflected in greater GDP growth. Look at the comparative data from the region. In the previous three years, 2014, 2015 and 2016, I will give you data on average economic growth in the region. Romania averages 4%, Macedonia 3.4%, Hungary 3.15%, Kosovo 3%, Albania 2.67%, Montenegro 2.57%, BiH 2.22%, Croatia 1.3% and Serbia 0.5%. This is a product of a subsidy policy which is claimed to contribute greatly to economic growth in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27058	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27059	Thank you. I just want to say about the fines and the penalties. I wish the justice system was so fast and efficient, that something the state missed maybe in this year or earlier, the verdict today. Absolutely not. These are the 2004 verdicts. 2005. In 2006 and 2007, and you can only check for military pensions paid 10 billion dinars. Just for military pensions from the previous period, before the SNS was even close to the government. Look at the numbers that were made in those years and how much damage the state is paying today. I know of the ministry that I run what we now pay for the shift work of those years. And here you go, Mr. Pavlovic, if you have any other information. I just want to hear from you whether you have a different data I've given you a replica room to hear the particular information you bring to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27060	Mr. Pavlovic, you have, of course, a basis for replication, but before you, we have more proposing representatives reported, since you have had more questions asked. Minister Goran Knezevic is represented by the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27061	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the issue was about subsidies, and I think it was a real pleasure to listen yesterday to Professor Vujovic's Minister who in a great way explained what 87 billion dinars in the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget mean. I would look back on one thing, which is what you were now talking about, about subsidies, incentives for investors in Serbia, and there, not often and in the public and here in the Assembly, are going through pretty wrong and incorrect thesis, and I can only think that it can be either maliciously political or what I think you said, although it is surprising to me, because you were engaged in the Ministry of Economy, and that is that there is not enough information and I accept that error, that, possibly as the Ministry of Economy, we haven't done enough marketing and we haven't explained enough that the principle of subsidies in the economy works and what the effects are. The first thesis to pass is the wrong, favouring foreign investors, completely incorrect. At the end of 2015, the Investment Law was adopted, which fully equated domestic and foreign investors. Since then, 39 investment projects have been implemented, eight of which are domestic investors. We think it's small, it's over 20%, and that's why in 2016 we've already adopted a regulation on attracting direct investment, where we've completely lowered our limits and adjusted this budget line for domestic investors. So the limit is down to the employment of only ten people and an investment of 100,000 euros. On that public call, 34 investors came forward. They're all from Serbia, they're all domestic investors, and they're all solved positively. Another piece of information, you may know that in a decade of entrepreneurship, and this year we have in the budget, over 18 billion dinars to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, of which 7.5 billion is grants. As for the effects, which you also talked about, we have very clear effects, and whether it's little or much, I'll tell you that data. So I've told you 39 investment projects, since the adoption of the Investment Law, plus ten that are in preparation and will be signed by the end of this year. The effect is that investment, the fixed assets amount to over 540m euros and will allow 29,500 new jobs, of which 23,800 are already employed. Therefore, it is only an effect on employment. Also, it was about the effects of the financial allotment. If we take into account only taxes and contribute, then these investment investments are returned, i.e. State subsidies investments, within 26 months. If we take into account all other contributions to the state where VAT, profit tax, property tax, that deadline goes down to 16 months. In 16 months, the subsidies we give to the investor will be paid back. Another piece of information is important in the technique itself. There is no pre-financing. By contract, investors are obliged to meet part of their investments, so we practically give them their money in tranches. It's not always the case, I'll fence myself, but in most cases, we don't use money, but their money that they pay for public revenue, we pay them as a subsidy. The third thing that is very important for these investments is transparency in work, which you talked about a lot last year for the budget throughout the year. So we've introduced very transparent processes. We have four degrees of decision. The first is decided by the Development Agency of Serbia, and by the Ministry of Economy, formed in accordance with the Investment Law, the Council for Economic Development, which includes three ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and ultimately as a fourth degree, the government of the Republic of Serbia is making a decision. Last year you requested and we met and on the Ministry of Economy portal you have all the contracts completely published with each of the investors, we have exactly the moment when they are paid the money and on the basis of which reports. Something else very important, it was also the thesis that this is our home invention and that this is our position, that only we give it in Europe, is not true. Most of the EU's countries from Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and other countries are practically paying off investors in a very similar way. So, whether it's just at the level of investments, at the number of employees, at some percentage of investments, but in principle, it's also a practice in Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, which have experienced exceptional economic growth through these investments. There's something else that's really important, it's getting through, we're giving this money to some foreign investor, and he comes in and takes that money, and after five years he's gone. I can tell you that 27 significant companies have made a decision to reinvest. It's about 60% of the companies that invested, invested second, third, fourth and fifth times. We have a Leoni factory in Nis, southern Serbia, which is opening the fifth factory already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27062	The word has a proposing representative, Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27063	Dear Chairman, I'd like to say a few things about previous fines. Seven, eight months ago, we suddenly had a large inflow, a large number of payment requests based on fines that concerned the agriculture ministry. The bottom line of the story is that in 2008 or 2009, I cannot label whose decision it was, there was one measure in the area of agriculture to pay 20 thousand dinars in two tranches to non-citizens, non-economics. What really happened? It happened that people have been found right, and tens of thousands, almost nearly 50,000 agricultural holdings we have never received have never been paid off in another war. So the law was established, there was no money and there was no payment. In addition to the deception that took place in the agricultural land, one other thing happened. These funds were intended, of course, allegedly, that was the plan, and the road to hell was usually paved by the best intentions, it was the idea to pay taxes and contributions from agricultural holdings, based on mandatory pension-inhabitation insurance, that they would pay for it. There's been two mistakes now. There's been two problems. The first thing, neither was paid and, secondly, they never paid anything, because the system wasn't built so that it could import one thing or the other, so we had on one side the non-payment of obligations that the state established, and on the other hand we had one situation that neither the pension-inhabited insurance obligations were paid. What's going on? Court proceedings begin. Then, of course, skilled lawyers immediately go into the clientele lobby and collect. Do I like this? Of course not. Is this an obligation that exists in the rule of law? Of course I do. The solution must be executed. From there comes a huge amount of these fines, just as counterpart Stefanovic said earlier about police employees. These are things that occurred seven, eight or nine years ago. We've paid almost five hundred million this year based on these obligations. Unfortunately, I'd rather these 18 billion were transferred to other things, but you're telling me that the rule of law should not be respected. Once the government's obligation has been established, we have other tools at our disposal. I know this is funny to you. A little while ago, there was one more thing about this government, no matter who's exercising law, it's getting its subsidies. There's no discrimination, and there's something I don't remember always being like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27064	Thank you, Minister Nedimovic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27065	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I am reporting on the basis of a replica of Mr Dusan Pavlovic's presentation, author of the book "The Machine for Explosion of Money". At a time when the president of his movement was Mr. Sasa Radulovic's minister of economy, this Ministry of Economy really represented a big money-breathing machine. Mr. Sasa Radulovic brought 28 people to his cabinet, exclusively political personnel, who later became members, or officials of his movement "Enough" and some of them are sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. Among them was the esteemed Mr Dusan Pavlovic, who wrote the book "The Machine for Explosion of Money", which was hired under the contract of work at the time when Mr Radulovic was Minister of Industry and at the monthly level received 113,000 dinars. On the basis of the contract on the performance of temporary and occasional transactions, 12 members and officials of the "Enough" movement were hired. Among them was Mr. Ivan Ninic, a famous crime and corruption fighter who received 80,000 dinars at the monthly level. It's interesting some Mrs. Ana Trbovic, Mr. Marinkovic. She was a woman engaged on two grounds. Based on the deal, she received 113,000 dinars and was engaged as Mr. Sasa Radulovic's special adviser, where she received a sum of 119 thousand dinars. Now imagine and then for days, months, here for almost two years Mr. Sasa Radulovic has been telling us about some party employment, we're some party personnel, we're some lazy, we're some non-workers, and he's the man who brought us to the Ministry of Economy, how much the minister, four or five months, 28 people, hired them on different legal grounds and pumped out who knows how much money from the state budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27066	Mrs. Radeta, don't throw it at me. Get down to the bench, so if you have anything, go ahead. Thank you. Right on line, MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27067	Mr. Minister Stefanovic, tell me where to look from which year are the penalties paid for next year. Which register or document you gave to the Serbian MPs and the public so they could look at it. I will read to you a verse in the Report of the Fiscal Council on the Budget for the coming year about this problem, which says: "There is no publicly available review that systematically monitors the participation of the Republic of Serbia in court disputes, nor is it known which potential commitment and within what time you can burden the budget. So, please, if you want to say that all of this occurred in some period from 2002, 2003 and 2004, give a nice review so that we can see if that's really true. Otherwise, just so you know, punishments and foams are almost doubled next year compared to the previous one, that is, compared to this year, and you want to claim that all these fines and foams came from somewhere ten years ago. Subsidy, Mr. Minister. You reiterated the claim here that I actually said, that subsidisation policy is good in the economy because it creates economic growth. Did you hear what I read when I exhibited? Economic growth in Romania in the last three years as the first on the list average growth rate is 4% and in Serbia 0.5%. Where's the economic growth? So the subsidy policy is good, but there's no economic growth. So what's the point of the subsidy policy if it doesn't give us economic growth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27068	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27069	Unlike you, my colleague Marinkovic, I, sitting upstairs as vice president of the National Assembly, spoke to you on the basis of Article 32. Rules of Procedure. I didn't throw it at you. I watched you shake your hand trying to stop Mr. Martinovic from telling him it was past the time he had for replication. I told you: “Hang on. Stop it as you do to others." And that's not tossing, that's how a session of the National Assembly is conducted. If you have a fear of being expelled from the government by God, or if you do not act the way they ask you to, that is your problem, but you have to sit there and respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today, while you are in charge of a session of any MP who appears on the line, you must not deny a time of 2.32 minutes. You must not and do not have the right to share MPs with those of you who depend on you to survive in the coalition and those who do not care about your coalition. So it's inadmissible. You hurt the Rules of Procedure, you hurt my dignity, you hurt the entire National Assembly when you told me publicly that the public would hear - don't get it, fellow Believer Radeta. I'm not throwing it away, colleague Marinkovic. I am sitting next to you, warning you to follow the Rules of Procedure and to work in the Rules of Procedure, and since you are obviously unable to do so, I will continue to sit upstairs and I will continue to draw your attention whenever you do not respect the Rules of Procedure, because that is your obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27070	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27071	Thank you for what? I've got 23 seconds left. I haven't run out of time. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27072	Thank you. I will continue to hold a session as the Rules of Procedure determines, and I will strive to be tolerant and with the same arches to all, as all chairing this effort. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? The Faith of Radeta: Of course. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27073	I point to Article 27's injury, Mr. Marinkovic. I don't know why Mrs. Radeta got so upset. I don't think there's any need to play the motion lawyer anymore. I spoke for two minutes and 32 seconds because a practice was established yesterday, because yesterday Mr. Vojislav Seselj spoke to one of the ministers exactly as much as I spoke today and made a joke - I almost spoke for three minutes. So today we continue practice since yesterday. So, if Mr. Vojislav Seselj can speak for two minutes and 32 seconds, here, I guess I can also be president of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27074	Thank you. As much as a man has a desire to be both tolerable and flexible in holding a session, of course, not everyone will be pleased. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Alexander Martinovic: No. You don't want to. Thank you. The word has the finance minister Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27075	I'm using the right of the promoter to actually replicate the attitude that's been repeated. So it seemed like I didn't hear well, now you've repeated, I thank you, Mr Pavlovic, for repeating the relationship between subsidies and economic growth. In principle, I said on the first day that subsidies should, and on the Committee before that, that subsidies should certainly be analysed, modernised and similar to give effect to economic growth. From there, however, it does not follow what you said, since direct, direct and no time-share links between the subsidy or any other measure and growth do not exist. So, like this, if you go this year, we said there are at least three parts of the subsidy. The first part, the subsidy is given to create new jobs. The second part, we use subsidies as a de facto capital investment where we pay for participation in certain loans and a third part, we give subsidies either for modernising certain things or for continuing old policies, such as agriculture. In each of these parts, a more serious analysis will show you that subsidies through support for capital investments and the creation of new jobs have an effect in the earliest two or three years. This second part of capital investment, if you invest 15% of your participation in the railway loan, will give effect to the economic growth in the part where people are employed in construction with a six-month shift or one-year shift, that's a smaller part, since the equipment is the largest part, and in the part relating to subsidies, which refers to an increase in efficiency, it will give it five or ten years. Therefore, I agree with your idea, but what you said, quoting reports, one that takes a very unfavourable period for Serbia, is an analysis. You're a professor. It's an analysis that was purposely directed to lead to the wrong conclusions, it's non sequitur, it's the wrong analysis and the wrong conclusion. I agree with your thesis that you should examine subsidies, but I refuse to accept such a bad logic in thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27076	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sasa Radulovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27077	You violated Article 104, as I was also mentioned by MP Martinovic and because he told a series of lies about what was in the Ministry of Economy while I was there. You didn't give me a replica, even though I was right about that. I don't know why you're acting like this, since we normally talk, there's no need for you to do things like this, to deny the systematic replicas of the opposition MPs, when they obviously have the right to do so, and at the same time you don't warn the MPs on the other side to talk about things that have nothing to do with what Dusan Pavlovic said doesn't have. No SNS parliamentary group has been mentioned. You gave him a replica without any basis, and then you denied me the answer to the untruths he spoke about alleged employment in the Ministry of Economy. Every minister sitting here, every minister, has his own cabinet, who brought himself when he became minister, all one, ask them. These are cabinets that usually count five to ten people and work practically while the minister is here. It means you don't warn an MP who brings such untruths here and then deny the line after that, so you're making a mess in the old Parliament. Please set the rules and let them apply to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27078	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Sasa Radulovic: Yes. Yes. Thank you. The word is Mr Dusan Pavlovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (The MPs of the DJB group detest. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27079	I see there is great anxiety in these sad remains of the Serbian opposition. Article 107, Mr. Marinkovic. I absolutely didn't make a single lie. Mr. Radulovic himself said that every minister, he says, brings five, six, up to 10 people to the ministry, into his cabinet, and that man brought 28. Then he says, well, you're SNS, you're some party parasites, you're like this, you're like this. He brought in 28 people, hired them on different legal grounds, paid them, sorry, at a time when the state of Serbia started saving, at the end of 2013, here you are, only on the basis of a temporary and occasional contract -- 80 thousand, 114 thousand, 110 thousand, 100 thousand, 60 thousand, 50 thousand, etc., on the basis of a contract of work – 113 thousand, 113 thousand, 113 thousand, 113 thousand, 110 thousand, 110 thousand, 80 thousand, 70 thousand, and so on, different people who all became members and officials of the DJB movement. There is not only Mr. Dusan Pavlovic, there is Mr. Aleksandar Stevanovic, if I am not mistaken, the MP of the DJB movement, who was hired. The contract is called – a contract on the provision of advisory services. Here, and now I've learned something as a lawyer that there's a contract in the legal system called an advisory service contract. By the way, Ms. Miroslava Milenovic was hired as a special associate of Mr. Sasa Radulovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27080	Thank you. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27081	... Here, I'm finishing up... not a convicted candidate for the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27082	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Martinovic: No. ) The word has a folk MP Sasa Radulovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27083	Article 103 has been injured. In fact, within the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've allowed a replica by Article 104. This is a typical manner of allowing the ruling majority to replicate and continue to speak falsely in the context of the Rules of Procedure's infringements. The truth about 28 employees is really funny. The cabinets count from five to ten people. I think mine was about five or six. Therefore, to present within the breach of the Rules of Procedure a replica is something that should not be happening. What's worst of all, we're turning the debate into totally minor subjects. That's exactly what the ruling majority's MPs would like to discuss. We have a discussion on the budget on the agenda and we need to talk about it, and these kind of excursions and stories, total untruth and constantly some waving of Martinovic's paper, Risticevic, this is really below each level. Get some order into the National Assembly. Let's talk budget. We've got a little time anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27084	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Sasa Radulovic: Yes. ) Please, in order to avoid abuse, this is going a little beyond some stream that the session should take place, so let's go further on the list. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. (Tatyana Macura: Rules of Procedure! No, I won't allow any more Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Martinovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27085	Mr. Marinkovic, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure from the chairman of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27086	I have to set a five-minute break, so let's get on with it. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27088	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the most significant legal act to be passed in a fiscal year. The budget determines everything, health, education, and talent, and economics. The budget is essential in countries that have such a fiscal arrangement of the essence of the economic order. Ministers, when the budget debate comes in the Republic of Serbia, the discussion is always different, specific to normal discussions. We're talking about the problems that exist, the functioning, everything else, but the budget is hard. Today when you listen to MPs from other political options, which do not belong to ruling political parties, you actually hear as if the time is 2009, 2008, 2014... (Dusan Pavlovic: Well, it is. ) Yes, and that's what a professor tells me who doesn't know that GDP counts at one year's level. I can give you some advice. The next time you count on GDP, take the 2016 which was up to 2.8, 2015 to 0.8, but then take it to make your data worse, because that's the only thing you can talk about, the time from World War I, and then connect it with it, so take World War II, and connect with it, and then when you have thousands of pages of material in which you have to comment on the economic theory and principles that exist, you talk about it, because you have nothing else to talk about. Those who led us in previous years brought us to the budget deficit of 6.6% in 2014, the unemployment rate of 25%, the state was on the verge of insolvency, and then we concluded a contract with the IMF. When I tell me, I mean the government of the Republic of Serbia where SNS is the dominant party. I primarily think of the president of the state, or former Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and Governor of the National Bank. We from the SNS have made the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. monetary and fiscal policy in Serbia, become a monoton. Practically, to say Serbian, we have made fiscal policy and monetary policy in Serbia become boring. So if you have and if you haven't looked at the growth of the euro or any other currency in five years, you haven't missed anything. After five years, the currency situation is the same. We have a stable monetary policy, it hasn't changed. What is the essence of monetary policy, but stability and certainty. The budget for 2016, 2017 is the beginning of the story when we make fiscal policy completely boring. When we discuss the budget, the professor needs to know, and he didn't talk about it, we're discussing three key things. We're discussing the deficit, we're discussing a degree of duty that affects growth and the development of the economy, or GDP, right? When you look at what our deficit is, in 2014, it was 6.6%. We entered the IMF programme with the idea that we would welcome the end of 2017 with a 2.8% deficit. It was an incredible shift, we'd be at the Mastricht border, which is 3% for countries that have a duty below 60%. So 2.8% of the dream, we're talking today, and in 2018 we enter with a deficit of 0.6%. Do you know what 0.6% of the history of the Republic of Serbia's budget is? Can anyone remember a budget that was 0.6%, and we all know from the opposition that the surplus in 2017 is 0.6%, even more amazing, in the general state of 0.7%. So we won't have a deficit in 2018. That's what they talk about when they talk about the Republic of Serbia's budget. When it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, whether you are the government or the opposition, and you are the professor who teaches the economy, you talk about the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia and then they sin, of course, because they don't understand, I think they understand, but they won't talk about it, they're talking about absolute amounts of duty. Mr. Professor, tell me an economic theory that speaks of macroeconomic stability, which speaks of absolute responsibilities? There are two criteria. The first criterion is the degree of responsibility in relation to GDP or social product growth. Second, the degree of duty relative to the amount. When you look at it, we dreamt in 2015 that we could have a duty, as the IMF said, at the end of 2017 somewhere below 70%. In 2017, we end up with 62.8%. If you have read the budget, you can find it very clearly in the data that says that GDP in Serbia in 2018 will be 4,758 billion per projection. On page 38, the total debt will be 2,800 billion. When you divide it, it's 60.38% foreign debt, public debt, whatever you want. So we're at 0.38 percent of the limit of the mastrict. It means that we're a country that has a duty of about 60%. So you have a budget that doesn't have a deficit, that is, at 0.6, the EU tells us that we can go to 0.9, the debt you have at below 60%. What's wrong with the Serbian budget? What's wrong? When the state of Serbia has a budget that has drawn growth and development from these two things and for the first time in Serbia's history when the development budget, the investment budget, and you've never had financial resources for these things, we say it's not developmental, but we have 128 billion, or 174 in the GEP, 620 in the coming time periods. Does anyone know when Serbia invested 174 billion from the budget, which is one of the four factors in social product growth? When we talk about the budget today, then, of course, we should say that we have completely changed the debate on the budget in the Assembly Halls. Citizens of Serbia, did you hear that today someone in the Serbian Parliament was talking about the budget of the privatisation process? Have we heard about the privatisation process? Did we talk about the privatisation revenues that the budget was making, and made injustice to Serbian citizens? Did you hear about the assignment? We in the Assembly have changed the way of the debate with this budget. May I remind you that fiscal consolidation was meant to end with three times 25,000 employees fired from the public sector? Did we fire them? Of course not. That's one of the social components of this government. Personally, I think that this government that makes SNS and its coalition partners, the SPS, the PUPS, that I don't forget, has done a historic mission and has extended my debt to generations to come. We, in the government of Serbia, have made the president of the government, the president of the state, a member of parliament who supports the budget in a fiscal and monetary sense better than we have inherited. It's a debt that we've repayed, and we wouldn't have owed it if generations of some before us had been as responsible, with knowledge run fiscal and monetary policy. Professor, I am going to say, this budget fully meets the conditions of economic theory concerning both dynamic and static budgetary principles and my personal satisfaction, and it is also the satisfaction of the SNS that we are going back to what the Germans say – a black zero, what in economic classical theory is called – budgetary balance and we are following the world trend that brings back the economy and the budget, or fiscal policy to the level translated into Serbian, as I translated it into boring, as we have earned so much to spend to be responsible for future generations. When the opposition speaks of pensions, I am happy because they return to 2014, to the law that was passed in 2014. They tell the same story in the 2017 budget because they have no other story. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is actually in the economy as is our education and our paths and the budget is health care and the budget is our entire economy. When you have a growing economy, when you have MPs, a government that invests in education, roads never again, unless you're dealing with a small, ground floor, it's human, in politics, say it -- we're not going to vote because we have a different political attitude. I understand that, but in a professional sense, don't criticise the budget because it's the dream of all of us and yours, Professor, if you remember 2008 when we had deficits, when we had budgets that we couldn't achieve, when we had 1,000-euro shares free of charge and inflation and everything else. This is a one-generation dream. It's a great pleasure when you're in the Assembly, when you're dreaming and it's just amazing that as an economist you can vote against this budget. I will, of course, vote in favour of this budget and the SNS will continue to vote in favour of these and the next budgets that say Serbia is going right through.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27089	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27090	Mr. Kovacevic, let me give you a quick answer. I didn't actually criticise the budget deficit at all, nor the level of public debt. So, I don't know where the polemic space is. On the contrary, I said, it is good that they are reduced. Minister Vujovic, article 6, writes that subsidies are increasing next year compared to 2018 and then next year compared to 2019. We can see that the subsidies involved in attracting investment are increasing. On the other hand, we see absolutely nowhere that any change in the character of these subsidies is attempted even though you yourself said that you agree with the flaw that the subsidy policy should be reconsidered. When are we finally going to question her? You've been here for three and a half years. This subsidy policy has been under way for at least five years, and it has actually been going on since 2006. You said – the first results of the subsidy policy will be given in five to ten years. It's been five years. Where are the results? There is no significant economic growth. The whole economic growth in Serbia in this and previous year is largely a product of the fact that the European Central Bank has buried European euro markets in the framework of a policy of quantitative relaxation. It poured into the euros of the European market, so something came from there to Serbia as well. Even if you didn't do anything, you'd have some economic growth. You have an economic growth of 0.5%, average economic growth in three years. It's really not some god knows what kind of success it is. I don't know what study you're calling yourself to which you say I'm misreading. This is IMF data. I'm not referring to any study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27091	I apologize to Minister Vujovic. According to the Rules of Procedure Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27092	My colleague Marinkovic, I don't know what basis you gave the previous speaker... (Dusan Pavlovic: He mentioned me twice. You haven't mentioned one. He said, "Professor."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27093	Please let my colleague Arsic explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27094	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Only the title – professor is mentioned. There is also Professor Atlagic and colleagues Martinovic and you are a professor, and Mijatovic is a professor, etc., not to mention. On what basis, then, is Mr Kovacevic privileged to be the only professor in the National Assembly? Please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Stick to the Rules of Procedure because otherwise we can talk about how professorial titles were received, how mentors had to be on vacation when they got the teacher's appointments. We can do that subject, but then we'd...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27095	Okay. I don't want to open that topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27096	Let me finish. ... A colleague who spoke about the law would have to say – so-called Professor. Then a colleague could get his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27097	My perception was that Mr. Kovacevic spoke directly to Professor Kovacevic. That's why he won the line. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27098	Dear Vice President, as you can see, I answered in time for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 106(3), which says - during the speech of the Members of Parliament or other participants, is not allowed to be thrown away. As Mr Kovacevic spoke, we all heard Mr Pavlovic throw away in a very distasteful way. Mr. Vice President, it is no wonder that he does not understand the economy because it is the man who graduated from high school – design. He didn't graduate from economics, he didn't master economics, he didn't doctor from the economy. Do you know what he teaches to students? Economic group of cases and financial... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27099	Professor Atlagic, if you'll excuse me, just one second be patient. We're not talking about colleague Dusan Pavlovic today. You listed why you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure and proceed in that tone, that we do not go directly and personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27100	I told you why you hurt the Rules of Procedure and I really think you hurt him. And what he doesn't understand from the economy, and maybe you don't understand him, or Mr. Secretary, I said the arguments, you can't even understand him. Woe to the students he teaches.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27101	Thank you very much, Professor Atlagic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word has a finance minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27102	I expect people who have a general education to respect the principles of logic and to interpret empathy with a meaning that fits what we want to do. What I wanted to tell you is this. You chose one study, a data study, that says Serbia can have 0.5% of the growth in the worst years, which it enters in 2014. It's for this debate, allow me, irrelevant. The average of the last three years, for us here the average of the last two years is over 2%. So you know that you're making an empirical lie and that this story is completely irrelevant to this debate today. And you insist on it! You're a muddy character of a professor. It can't be used that way. I'm sorry, but it's really not allowed. Second of all, you can say that we'll be behind. But we're on a quarterly path of minus 3.7% climbing back and stabilizing to 3.5%. Please, slow it down, but don't use it, it's called "non segmenture", it's a logical mistake, the professor can't afford it. I'm sorry, but it's really not allowed. The other important thing, very important, is how it works. You've got a fiscal strategy. Look at the export. Everything grows in those sectors where we invest, everything grows. We have a bunch of projects going on, Minister Knezevic told you that we have a body that includes all the ministers, to objectify the allocation of these, we have merged regional and SIEPA into one fund, to take both industrial and regional aspects of investment into account. Today we're assigning something that will have effects in a year and a half, two, three. We have effects that are smaller than assigned, because honest investors give up half of the project, they say -- we can't realize, so they pay back. But the data shows that we also have an increase in employment and an increase in production everywhere. Next thing you know, it's very important. You have to respect the Empire. We're talking here in the last year, data on the trend of industrial production, so we have problems all together, but we have growth in industrial production, there's a gro of these investments, we have 6-7% growth. So we have problems with GDP because of the exogenous factors in the energy sector, mining, agriculture, etc. But industry continues to grow, exports are growing. Please, you can't argue with that. You slow down something else, but don't falsify the facts. It's just not allowed. I'm sorry to have to say this, but you're abusers of your academic title by making the elemental logical empirical mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27103	Thank Minister Vujovic. Dusan Pavlovic answered. On what basis do you want the word? We can now open a debate and talk about growth, about subsidies. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27104	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Otherwise, the point of this body is to argue, so there's no need to be afraid to argue. I mentioned 2014 to my colleague Vujovic because you then came to the Ministry. Otherwise, I can go back if you want, only then you won't like the results. I can take both 2013 and 2012, so you can see what the average growth rate is then. You can go, if you want to be honest with the subsidy policy, at the time the subsidies started to give away both the left and the right, and that's the policy we continue today, and the economic growth, there's no significant economic growth anywhere. And there's one more thing to tell you. I'm the MP here in this body and I'm not any professor. So, I'm not talking here as a professor, I'm not giving any lessons to anyone here, I'm telling you the data I found in the International Monetary Fund database.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27105	Thank you, colleagues, to Pavlovic. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. On what grounds? (Balsa Bozovic: On what basis? [[Alexander Martinovic: Based on replica.]] ) (Radoslav Milojic: Not mentioned. He didn't mention you, he didn't mention the SNS, he didn't mention the party leader. I'm asking you to... (Radoslav Milojic: No right. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27106	I see that again these sad remains of the Serbian opposition are nervous. (Maya Vidinović: Turn off his microphone.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27107	I'm asking you to keep working, because I really...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27108	I don't know what's wrong with them. (Radoslav Milojičić: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27109	I'll listen to you, say it. (Radoslav Milojic): What does this look like? (Balsa Bozovic: What does this look like? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27110	The debate on the budget is an important debate and it requires a man to be a little... (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure! ) Therefore, the debate on the budget is important for the state and its citizens, and it is important that these members of the sad Serbian opposition, these remnants of the Serbian opposition, led by actors, singers and makeup women... (Radoslav Milojic): What does this look like? ) So, to listen a little bit to what it is that we from the SNS have to say about the 2018 budget. The previous speaker said we should go back a little bit. I will return a little, at the end of 2013, when the president of his movement was the minister of economy and suggested that the government of the Republic of Serbia be part of the budget relating to the Ministry of Economy. He then suggested that subsidies, which have now been raised both in short and in repato, be allocated 9 billion 81 million dinars for the following things: for these appraisals, funds were intended for the implementation of the joint investment contract "Fiat" and "Er Serbia", which are now under duress attack. Then, for the realisation of the Regulation on conditions and how direct investment is attracted, for the implementation of the grant contract of PKK Smederevo, to encourage investment in economic development under special government acts. For the Greenfield investments in 2014 it was dedicated to 5 billion...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27111	Thank you, you've had 40 seconds of extension. Finish it. Radoslav Milojic: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27112	Just to finish, 61 million 183 thousand dinars and such a budget has been adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and published in "The Official Messenger".
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27113	Since fellow Martinovic was distracted at the beginning of his speech, he had 40 seconds, so I extended so much. I pray for peace. Everyone's gonna get a word in with no anxiety. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27114	Thank you. Article 104. Mr. Marinkovic, could you explain to us exactly what happened and what occasion and on the basis of which presentation Mr. Martinovic was given the right to reply? As you know, that article says that your discretionary right is to decide who gets the replica, but not on the basis of who threatens you, who scares you the most, who yells at you as he speaks to someone from the opposition, but on the basis of what it says in the Rules of Procedure. Article 104 states that the right to replica has the MP mentioned, whose party is mentioned, if the head of the parliamentary group. Mr. Martinovic, his party, the party's president, any basis on which Mr. Martinovic could have the right to a replica has not been acquired. No one mentioned him. Mr. Marinkovic, I ask you to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and not on the basis of some threats, they yell at you, they cannot bear anyone from the opposition having a word, because everyone who sat in this room could hear Mr. Martinović screaming at you and telling you that right now you have to give him the right to replication. It does not say in the Rules of Procedure that Mr Martinović has the right to reply whenever he asks for it, if you want to write such a thing in the Rules of Procedure, until then please hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now they're telling you to take a break, if you do, we'll know why you did it. Please hold the session alone, not based on the screaming of anyone from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27115	Thank you. Of course, I'm obliged to explain. First, I think Mr. Martinovic, I've never heard him scream, therefore it's an inappropriate term, nor threatened anyone, at least I didn't notice. Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day? (Yes) As you know, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, chair of the leadership, therefore runs the session and has the full right to determine, in accordance with his assessment, whom he will give the replica. Since we've got a lot of reports, and seeing as the nerves are getting bigger and bigger in the O.R., I have to set up a five-minute break to keep working. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I am sorry that the Prime Minister is not here, because the budget, excuse me, Minister Vujovic, but the budget is her document, as Prime Minister, and it would be good if it were here, that's her priority, to represent the budget. We're here to discuss under very difficult conditions. I will quote to you one thinker, the 16th century, Thomas More, when the English Parliament's Rules of Procedure is adopted - no law, no law or decision can be made if it has not been discussed in the Assembly three days before the vote, in order to avoid impetuousness. The 16th century. We're here today discussing the third day, the truth, the second, about 31 laws and so much to discuss, three days. So, dear colleagues, if someone here believes in the progress of civilization, society or learning from other people's experiences or mistakes, then I believe that this practice, which we all live here, will be able to reassure him, if it hasn't already. Citizens, however, expect us to talk seriously about everything the government proposes because of their lives. And that's why I disagree with those who say -- the budget is, you know, just a financial plan. It's a financial instrument that shows what a government's political agenda is. That's why we here as MPs, and not as any economic experts, there may be some among us, but most of us don't have to be, we're representatives of citizens, and as such we talk about the budget. I also suggest to Mr. Minister that he appreciates it, that we are not at any scientific symposium here, but that we should speak in language to understand citizens, so that they know what awaits them in life in 2018. Therefore, I am now moving on to the budget and I am going to talk about three things, regardless of how some colleagues from the ruling majority may disagree, but I am going to talk about the political consequences of the budget, the one we have had for the past year or two days, and how this will reflect the outcomes, society, state, etc. The first thing is a matter of retirement. So much commended retirement, you suggest that all pensions increase by 5%. It's a good thing you want to raise your pensions and those you didn't reduce to three years ago, because they're people who are poor, who are hard to survive, but it's a very bad thing that you pay back the same percentages to those you've reduced your pensions by 10%, because even when you give them back these 5%, you keep taking them every month. If someone had a pension of 40,000, and now give them back two thousand, you'll still be taking away two thousand and something, if I count correctly, correct me. So the bill here is very simple. In the economic profession now, if we want to, at least to the extent that I read it, in research, economic analysis, pensioning can only be short-term measures, so that some economic environment can be created and growth started. We've been waiting for a third year to see that's not there. It's not just the third year, the fifth year. For five years, this ruling majority is in power and in 2012, 2013 promises us, here in 2017 it will be better, so in 2018 it will be better, now we hear it takes another three years. It's good for citizens to hear that. It's another thing. The minister said yesterday that the range between pensions is a political issue. You know, it's not, because if that's how you understand the nature of retirement, then the government can also lift pensions, which is a political matter, and it's not, but it's a question of acquired rights and the question is the Constitution is whether it can be done this way. The government is now redistributing funds within that pension fund, how pleased it is. It's something that isn't working and the Fiscal Council has also criticised it. The second question is, why is this all important? Because that legal environment, trust in the rule of law, that's how we destroy everything. It is a problem that we have both with growth and with attracting investment and with confidence in this country and foreign and domestic investors. Let's talk once about these problems that, ultimately, the EU is giving us criticism. It's another thing. It is very bad that the ban on public sector employment continues. This employment ban, now for the fourth year, will be, bringing our administration, hence our state, into a state that, believe me, some Brussels negotiators already consider a destruction of the administrative capacity of Serbia. Many have retired, many have been fired, many have been transferred, employees have expired their mandates, work as a vd, etc., and party staffs are employed very often unqualified. Third thing. Is this about the development budget? Why are we increasing this military budget so much? What are we getting ready for? What kind of wars are we preparing for, if you're saying you're guaranteed stability if you say relations in the region are better than ever? Why do we need so much firepower? My belief is that there is no development budget unless the state significantly increases the budget, for what is today realistically everywhere in the developed world is seen as developmental areas, which are education, science and culture. No innovation, no development until we increase the number of kids in high school and high school. I'm afraid we're not going to be friendly with these developmental processes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27118	Thank you. The word has a finance minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic, followed by Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27119	Thank you very much. I'm just answering, and your warning is completely in place. I have no intention of answering scientific arguments to those MPs who raise questions, politically, socially and otherwise. I was just reacting to an attempt to question something that absolutely... So I'm going to answer you exactly the way you asked the question. Your question is in place, but it has several dimensions. One dimension is what it means. Social contract between the state and pensioners in the so-called the pension system that's being applied to us. So, for some years, something's earned, it's earned some pension rights, and then, according to written and unwritten rules, laws, customs, etc., the state's income from its budgetary capabilities provides. So that's the right to retire, but not to a specific amount of retirement. What defines the specific amount of pensions determines the economic potential of the country. So, during certain periods, we had different state interventions to ensure these rights. In 2014, when I became a minister, we paid off, that's before the cut, 508 billion pensions, and in that, the state in the other citizens' budgets gave 251 billion, almost 50%. It was paid beyond what the employees of their pension insurance contributions paid to the PIO fund. Next year, after this reduction, pensions of 490 billion total were paid. In this, the state participated, i.e. the citizens participated with 211 billion, and the remaining money was paid from the PIO. I'll give you this table so you have complete. So 211 billion were paid out of the budget of non-retired citizens who were retired. In 2016, 205 billion were paid from the budget and 494 billion were paid. That's the first increase of 1.25%. Last year, i.e. This year has been paid, so far, i.e. 11 months, 498 billion. In this state has given 178 billion, and this already includes an increase of 1.25% and an increase of 1.5%. In a particular case, after this 5% increase, we estimate that next year the total pension payments will exceed the level of 2014 and will be 527 billion, according to our calculations, instead of 508. So it's going to be 19 billion more. So 19 billion will be a larger total pension fund and the state will participate 185 billion, i.e. Serbian citizens 185 billion. In your particular case, 40,000 means the person who had 40,000 in October 2014 when it was brought in, the reduction was 22% to the difference between 40,000 and 25 thousand. So 22% on 15 grand, that's 3,300 if I count well. Today, after this increase, this person will receive 7.91 total increases. Since it's 1.25 and 1.25 and 5%, that's 7.91. Check it out. That 7,91 gives pension to 43,164 dinars. The person will have a pension that will be only 136 dinars less than the one that was in 2014. It's a very exact calculation. I did the math on the spot, because you said the example. We can calculate for many. For most people up to 50,000 decreases, there were up to 10%, and they will be at that level by next year. The total amount, as I said, next year exceeds the first amount, and now you're asking the question of equality within these ranges. It's a political issue, a social issue, it's a policy issue, etc. I'm just telling you that many people have never had more pensions than today, and that's in the number of millions and 715 thousand pensioners in Serbia. Serbia has the largest number so-called. depending on the number, so people retire to the number of employees. Secondly, Serbia has a lot of good data on how much average pensions are compared to average earnings, although in the number of pensioners we have an extremely high share. So today, out of millions and 715 thousand pensioners, we have 640,000 people who don't take full pensions from full-time employment. (The People's MP Milorad Mircic throws out of place. But that's very important, please. (The People's MP Milorad Mircic throws out of place. I didn't understand. (Balša Bozovic: Devin savings. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27120	Please sign up for a word. Let's give the Minister a chance to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27121	Let me just say one more sentence here. So we have the average pension of 50% of the average salary, although in a million and 715 thousand pensioners we have 650 thousand people who haven't made a full pension. So they're not senior pensioners, they're either disabled or family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27122	Thank you, Minister. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27123	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly has been compromised. The speaker who spoke on the subject of pensions and even growth is questioning any data at all and what we bring as MPs in the form of laws here in the Assembly. It was yours to stop him at that point and get him back on the subject, to really talk about the budget and pensions as the main right to the exercise of the rights of every man who, after a certain number of years, has a certain part of his obligation to the state to receive. The pension level is determined by decisions made by the National Assembly, which are based on budgets and laws relating to pension levels. Because you're not going to tell me that in Greece, which reduced pensions 50%, maybe pensioners will have the right to recover those funds, or in Portugal that had the right to 40% reduction? Please respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27124	Thank you. I'll keep in mind. If this doesn't turn into a replica, do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Balša Bozovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27125	Thank you. Art. 106th and 107th. We are MPs, as you know, chairman, and we have the right to be insolent. We often don't have the right to, for example. let us know when he doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure, but he had the right to be disdainful. One of the MPs said -- you can't take pensions, it's like you took someone's foreign savings because it's a sign of equality between the two. You also had to warn the previous speaker because she said that Greece reduced pensions...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27126	You can't, colleague Bozovic, and now you're hurting the Rules of Procedure to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27127	Just let me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27129	I'm just showing you that when someone tells a lie for the purpose of replication and asks for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you have to know as chairman, because you're following it and you understand very much about the economy and finance, if I'm not mistaken. I think that one of the Greeks who passed the Retirement Law, the Constitutional Court annulled that decision, unlike the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27130	Thank you. Well, you said what you had, and it was near the line. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Balsa Bozovic: Of course I do.) No, no, no, The word has the defence minister Alexander Vulin, and after Natasa Vuckovic has the right to reply. Here you go, Minister Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27131	All morning we've been listening to DOS parties making remarks about what the military is arming, what military equipment, what army modernizes and questions arise as to why and for whom? Every army, neither Serbian nor Serbian, is made overnight, it must continue to develop, because if it lags behind, as it lagged from 2000 to 2012, it ceases to fulfil its basic function, and its basic function is the defence country. To defend the country, you must have a strong army. And yes, we are a guarantee of stability in the region because we are strong, not because we are weak. When you're weak, you're no guarantee of anything and no one and everyone treats you like that. It would be interesting, say, to look at another question. Croatia has raised its participation in the GDP defence budget from 1.23 to 1.30. Perhaps you should ask them who they defend themselves from, why they are arming themselves as a member of a very powerful alliance to protect them? We have no reason to be afraid of it, but we have to follow what's going on around us. Perhaps it would be interesting to ask Slovenians why they raised their defence budget by 48m euros? Why did the Czech Republic do it for 235m euros and Slovakia for 110m euros? Why did a peaceful, neutral Switzerland raise its 4.38 billion budget by 200m euros? Sweden did it, too. So it's not about why we're gearing up and why we're modernizing ourselves, it's more about why some other countries are doing it, which I guess should be that they're quieter and less threatened. To think of Serbia as a country around which eternal roses will flourish and in which they will never be able to reach anything that threatens our security is at least irresponsible. You can't say that in the Balkans ever. Besides, as we all know well, you know, peace takes at least two, war takes only one. You only need one to endanger your safety. There's nothing you can do about it. Let's get this straight, and since we haven't had a chance to talk about the military budget, the army has three basic missions. The first is the defence of the country, the second is participation in peacekeeping missions, peacekeeping operations, and the third is aid to the civilian authorities when natural disasters occur or something like that, to help civilian authorities deal with the consequences. All three points are covered by this budget. We've also increased money for participation in peacekeeping missions. We return the civil defence sector, and not just civil defenses, just so we can participate more strongly and help solve the consequences of various natural disasters when possible. Besides, remember, in 2014, if it hadn't been for that army, which we now wonder what was arming, equipment and which increased its combat and numerous composition, who would have helped Obrenovac, who would have saved Sabac, who would have been where he was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27132	Thank you, Minister Vulin. The word is Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27133	When I was talking about pensions, I was talking about acquired rights and a certain range that was established by how people were investing in a pension fund. I speak constantly and my speech was focused on us having to create a legal environment for both development and growth and production. This is the essence of the story, and the legal environment is made when citizens begin to believe in the institutions of this country, to believe that there is a reason, a good investment in the Pension Insurance Fund. I just want to tell you this. We can't connect two things. Growth, development, better lives of citizens have a lot to do with what our judiciary is, what our rule of law is and what our government is like. We don't understand it somehow. Please, I have a lot of evidence for that. I read something yesterday, let's say, this Duing Business List, which you are very happy to quote, mentioned how much growth there is in Macedonia. Do you know the information, say, and you read it, that by category enforcing contract, means how much contracts are respected, Macedonia is ninth place, and we're at 17. So she's twice as good as we are. So there's something wrong with us. That's what I'm talking about to the government in general. Where's the Justice Minister? We talk about how the state plans its development overall, not just macroeconomicly, where I say to Vlad and Minister Vujovic – yes, fiscal consolidation is fine, but it's not good, we're not going in the right direction, they don't trust us. That's the essence of the story. As far as the weapons are concerned, I think the question is how the budget has been deployed and we are not satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27134	Thank you, colleague Vuchkovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if it hadn't happened and someone had told me, if I hadn't been here, I wouldn't have believed what was going on here. Some college MPs talked about taking pensions, so one spoke about the high cost of public enterprises, so one said that even this seventh or eighth budget was not, but was sixth, so one MP said that the public debt since DS was not in power grew by 10 billion, and then one MP talked about bankruptcy in Kragujevac, and was on the list with the mayor of Kragujevac, who brought the malts to bankruptcy and sat in the same bench, and was talking about the debts of "Serbigas", so it was about employment subsidies, how it was all bad, how this government was spending money and real damage to citizens. I decided to see a little bit and show how we now have one of these budgets, with which of course we can be satisfied, of course we have a certain amount of optimism and of course we regret the time we lost while we were correcting other people's nonsense, thieving and lying, which is what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament. He says so - the euro course on 5 August 2008 was 76.26 dinars. On the same August 2009, 92.77 dinars, the difference is 16.5 dinars. Let's move on, in 2010, 106.07 dinars, the difference is 14.29 dinars. When they made their biggest foreign investment, which was the sale of Deleza, they managed to cut the four dinar rate in 2011, but when you tell the people "side investments", he liked to hear it, and they sold one of the most ordinary trade chains. "Maxie" sold "Delezza" and that's a big investment. Since they're some professors, so-called. Economics professors, who left the hall, which they didn't tell us, to the ignorant MPs, to sell the company that provides the service, to sell the Serbian market, no new jobs, no investments, no new value, but you sold it. Miskovic brought some money to Bulgaria, something in Slovenia, and it ended. In 2012, the rate of the euro was 118.21 dinar, 5 August, the difference of 16 dinars. In four years, as long as you were in power, the euro rate jumped by 41.94 dinars. Someone's gonna say this has nothing to do with the budget. There is. There's a way. Since you boast of the great results while you were in power, let's see what inflation looked like. It's a very interesting thing. In 2008, inflation was 11.7%, so in 2009, it was 8.4%, and in 2010, it was 6.5%, and in 2011, it was 11%, and in 2012, it was 7.8%. Someone's gonna throw again that this has nothing to do with the agenda theme. There is. Because with this data, we see why we have a budget like this and what time is wasted. This is just part of the story. One MP said the public debt in Serbia has grown since the SNS was in power by 10 billion, and I say it is a lie. (Radoslav Milojic: It is true, the living truth. That's a simple lie. Here, we'll see. So, the total public debt, direct and indirect liabilities, December 31st, 2012, you can't convince me that in four months, Dacic's government could have changed something important by public debt, so don't even try, because that's when the loans come in, it's 17 billion 717m euros. You see further, in 2013, 20 billion 141m euros, in 2014, 22 billion 761m euros, 2015, 24 billion 818m euros, 2016, 24 billion 820m, in order to have an entry line in 2017. So, when you look at the growth of public debt is seven billion, which isn't a little bit, but let's look at it, here, I've just denied a colleague who's told the truth, but I'm calling it false when someone's saying something, it's not true, and he's convinced that it's true, and whoever's telling the truth and he knows that our people call it a liar. Let's see how the seven billion euros came into being. I ask the chairman to calm this "Veselka" from Palanka. I'm not afraid of him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27136	Please, please continue. I'm asking my colleagues not to get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27137	I'm not afraid of him, not because I'm smarter, there's that, but I'm telling the truth. Here, in 2013, only on behalf of the interest of 750m euros. In 2014, just on behalf of interest, 900 million. The euro. In 2015, only on behalf of interest, a billion and 100 million euros. In 2016 alone, a billion and 150m euros. It's just interest. Now, somebody's gonna say, well, okay, that you haven't returned the principal. Well, we couldn't. That's what this is about. Because you see, we're going back to the beginning of the discussion. I read that in four years, the dinar has lost value by over 50%. I read that in four years inflation was about 40%. Now tell me who wants to do this and do business in Serbia when there's inflation 40%, when there's a 50% loss of national currency, which companies want to do in Serbia? Now, Mr. Minister wasn't there at the time, but he doesn't know that they invented a new way of primary money emissions in economic science. Because if anyone wonders why there were so many curative differences and why inflation was this much, they can only look at the government balances from that period, so they'll see that the state was in debt through a charter of values with a reference interest rate and interest paid by the state at over 20%. Seventeen was a reference. Over 20%. This interest was a specific form of decomposing of money without cover and it is proven through all possible simulations carried out. So, gentlemen who are against employment subsidies, you know what kind of subsidy they made in Serbia? It cost us 4.5 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves. They made a grant to keep 250,000 people out of work. It's their subsidy. State money, our foreign reserve. Because of your dances and marriquettes, 250,000 people lost their jobs. 'Cause, I'm sorry, there were also stories here about public enterprises, covering losses. So, just on the basis of the interest paid because we didn't have the economy to pay off the principals, we found a state without economy. Three billion and 850m euros were spent on exchange rates. For the six billion dollars we've found, the difference is 27 euro cents. A billion and $820 million, that's 6% of GDP. How dare you? That's what you said to the state. When you say someone's taking pensions and someone says they're taking employees' salaries in public administration, it's you. You took them. When you say there are layoffs, you fired 250,000 people and paid 4.5 billion euros. When you talk about foreign investors, you've brought white-world hohstapplers to financial markets that you've taken money at high interest and made them rich. That's the result of your authority. You ask a lot of questions, if someone was making these things, why isn't he answering? (Balsa Bozovic: Don't scream! I wish he could answer. Next, in 2010, in November of the month, you amended the Foreign Exchange Act and legalized thieving and theft, so don't attribute your results to us anymore. There is one bird that lays an egg in another's nest, and you are once men of honor and confess your mistakes, not cowards, to plant your bad results on others. I don't mind calling Mr. Ciric who talked about the 10 billion he doesn't have anywhere, nor this Palanka "Veselka" or Balša Bozovic or Aleksic. I'm not afraid of them, not because I'm smarter, my colleague Krasic, and there's that, but because I'm telling the truth, and their lies, time and events are very quickly being denied.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27138	Thank you, colleague Arsic. (Goran Ciric: Replica, the DS was mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Kiric, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27139	Now Minister Vujovic could see what it looks like in the Assembly and how he reacts after a minute of mutual talks between MPs, without any direct throw to him. So we've been working on this for the past six, seven years, and that's the atmosphere we've gotten used to, unfortunately. I don't think we should get used to this atmosphere. Here are the answers to some questions, the views the finance minister made and I don't have to tell you. So, right, 10 billion in 2012, in the middle of the year, that public debt amounted to 15.3 billion euros, and that the minister himself spoke about the fact that the Finance Minister had already raised a two-billion loan, so you provided the data from the end of 2012. I'm talking about a state-of-the-art cut when you won those elections in 2012. Now we're introducing a story about this ship that has its own momentum, and that's what the minister was talking about and who it's not so easy to turn around and when the rudder turns after 200 or 20 or 30 minutes can react to that rudder. And he knows and remembers, in the year 2000 you mentioned, from 2000 to 2012 when DS took the greatest responsibility, what it inherited. It inherited the participation of public debt in GDP of 201 %, and today we are talking about the Law on Old Foreign Savings and that ship that brought in the period from 2000 to 2012, and even now, the return of old foreign savings which was not returned until 2015 with huge commitments that all of the next governments had to compensate for the citizens who had earned something, kept in their lifetime, working period, and then someone declared to them in the 1990s that it was no longer their own, but represents an old foreign currency savings. All of these answers were given by Minister Vujovic and the debt of the city of Belgrade, which is not 1.2 billion, but 400m euros, as it says in the Fiscal Council report.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27140	Right on line, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27141	Dear fellow, the truth is that your words can be interpreted differently. It's been building in Serbia for the past few years. Your party colleague is building on top of Pancic restaurant, motel. There's the police minister, there's the other ministers, and no one checks it without building permits. Of the 1,300 sites, more than 1,000 are illegal in Belgrade alone, without any permits. Quotas are given to the presidents of municipalities in Belgrade and Serbia to raise money for the elections. The presidents of municipalities receive several hundred thousand euros to rent by releasing illegal construction. It happens that corruption has flourished to this extent during the SNS, that the resources of the city of Belgrade and Serbia have been in vain for decades behind us, that only those privileged in the environment, which is the president of the party, are using you personally. A lot has been stolen in these five years, Mr. Arsic, and is still being stolen.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27142	Please contact my colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27143	The budget only speaks of taking care of the privilege of a narrow circle of people in Serbia who become financial elites, while you take out pensions and cut salaries for citizens. All Serbian construction firms are firms that have to give a racket to get a job. Everyone who works fairly in Serbia knows that, and so do you. So don't tell the citizens about your lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27144	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 107 is a matter of dignity. And I just got off the phone about what was said, now that this is happening again and it's getting worse and more brutal, as far as I can tell. I'm referring to the presentation of Ambassador Bozovic. First of all, I'm surprised there wasn't an intervention when he was screaming, not just at you, but at Mrs. Jerkov. She has a sensitivity to high tones as we heard today, she was supposed to intervene when MP Bozovic was screaming, but if we missed it then it's totally unacceptable to let her appear now and this sort of thing says without any reaction. I understand, Mr. Marinkovic, that you're a man of tolerance, but I don't understand that you're going to meet someone's impulse, someone's desire to intervene, why? Because today, MP Arsic mentioned Miroslav Miskovic. Is that why all the lies are being spread here right now, to falsify the real situation on the ground? If it hurts them, I understand it hurts, but we can't tolerate it. It hurts them, for example, because here I like to call on their sources what they say about themselves and their own. They are in pain because Dragoljub Markovic, they know who this man is, is the man who worked closely with their leadership and witnessed the events of the 1990s. Now, this Dragoljub Markovic, recently on Sunday, who is close to them, so he comes from that camp, said the following – Dragoljub and Kole were reported to be DS's chief financiers. However, the big financier was Miskovic, said the man who came from their ranks, who personally testified. Because he had a much bigger firm than mine, and of course he could handle something like that, I didn't. Now, because of the debt they have towards Miroslav Miskovic, they should defend him and we should tolerate him. No, Mr. Chairman, you don't have to. We should not tolerate it when a member of the 3rd echelon DS, and this is written by the “daysoid” of the tabloid that is close to them. Here he talks about how legal it is in Belgrade, let him read the text "Danasoids", about the third echelon in 2011, let's see who created Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27146	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica. ) The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic, so Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised one of them was allowed to answer. Never mind. But here's the thing, for the sake of truth, someone said 15.3 billion euros was a public debt. That's not true. July of the month was 16.3 because you had a budget of 160 billion deficits that you met 90% on June 30th 2012. Now where's the difference? It went to cover JAT's debts, because we only found three planes that could fly. So one part of the debt went to Vojvodina Development Bank, and the other part of the debt went to Agrobank. The third part went, say, to Serbia, but how did the debt of Serbia become? By charging DS municipality presidents for heating services, raising their salaries, funding an election campaign, and not paying gas to Serbia. That's how you ruled. Kidnapped wherever you came from. Not just on top. This Palanca Sweep is a tiny fish, a splash. It's at the bottom, at all levels from the local community to the president of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27148	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on the replica Radoslav Milojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. They say in our people when a man doesn't tell the truth and when he's scared, he's automatically yelling, screaming as he talks. We've had our chance to see from Mr. Arsic and I won't use any ugly names when I speak of him. Of course I'm not afraid, but we do know that Mr. Arsic, when he makes a little joke and drinks at the bar, he also likes to shoot in that pub, which is a police report that a man shot a bar full of people. But it won't scare the DS. How did the debts of all local self-government and the state of Serbia arise? They came into existence, Mr. Arsic, by you robbing and destroying the country in 1998 and 1999, that because of you, they bombed us, that by coming to power in 2000, the DS had to return 13 back pensions, 12 child benefits, to buy out Telekom again and bring us sanctions. We were cut off from the world. It is the policy of you, Tomislav Nikolic, the edge of Dacic and Alexander Vukic. The red-black coalition that black-headed all citizens of Serbia. This budget you're talking about will only do good to tycoons and SNS thieves. You are making budgets to fill your pockets with Zvonko Veseninovic and other SNS criminals. You know what a lot of people asked me yesterday... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27150	Wait, fellow Milojich, please, I turned off the microphone. There is no need for such words and qualifications. I won't tolerate it any further. The word is Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27151	Member of 107 Mr Marinkovic, I ask you to finally introduce this session into legal flows. I have never asked any MP to be punished, this time because Mr Milojic spoke words that are not spoken, I think, in that most extreme part of the Croatian Parliament or the BiH Assembly. I don't think such words have been spoken even now that Croatia has passed a law on fosterers and participants in the Homeland War. He almost quoted the law – You Serbs, you have committed aggression on Croatia. You have committed an aggression against BiH. You're the reason for the sanctions. You made it NATO bombing in 1999. In translation, it means the words of Mr. Milojicic. Mr. Marinkovic, the session will not continue, I tell you. SNS MPs will all report to the Rules of Procedure if you do not respond, because this is no insult to the SNS, this is an insult to the state of Serbia, this is an insult to the Serbian people. So, we have neither committed aggression on anyone, nor are we responsible for NATO bombings, nor are we responsible for sanctions. (Balsa Bozovic: Yes. ) Major forces policy is responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, not Serbia, not the Serb people, and in particular, not the SNS. (Balsa Bozovic: Yes, it's all true. It's the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27152	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Alexander Martinovic: If you do not give the warning to Seselj, I do. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27153	I thank you, Chairman. This kind of behavior just continues and represents the continuity of already known by the opposition not only in this Assembly, but in many previous congregations and sessions that really do not look like anything when you hear a vocabulary like this and when you are present with this kind of behavior. It is time for this behavior to stand in the way and perhaps you, Mr. Marinkovic, as chairman, need that order to seduce you. The order, if not deceived now, is really coming into a dangerous situation, that Serbian citizens will no longer see this assembly as a temple of democracy, but as a mockery of democracy. (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. And what you're hearing now contributes to exactly what I'm talking about. For this reason, I ask you to punish the speaker who insulted the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia appropriately by applying the Rules of Procedure, which is the least warning you need to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27154	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Nedjo Jovanovic: No. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27155	Articles 106 and 107. Chairman, I ask you to pay a little attention to the MPs who are nervous when the brotherly war in Yugoslavia is mentioned, who challenged him, who contributed to him, whose rhetoric... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27156	My colleague Bozovic, I apologize, but enough tension has been made by speech of counterpart Radoslav Milojic. I ask you not to deepen it, to continue in one democratic tone, to try not to punish each other and not to insult each other. I ask all MPs in that tone, in a tone of good, quality debates, correct debates, dignified debates, to continue further. I will no longer allow this kind of insult and this type of qualification to anyone in the National Assembly. National MP Milorad Mircic, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27157	Article 107. Chairman, you've finally realized that we've been attending Farsi for a long time. This is where a debate is being held between two, conditionally speaking, political options which are essentially the same. There's a moving speech that could serve science, and that's what -- a child has grown up, it's left alone, I'm sorry, I don't have a handkerchief, so I can't continue that speech, but you see, you're yellow, what you've done. You made this child and now that child has strengthened, now that child has begun to return to you and you are now using this Assembly to make your frustrations for the reason that Boris Tadic has created this party, now that we are being shown and exulted over us. We Serbian radicals no longer intend to attend this farce. The public sees you're one body and two heads. You feel the same way, and there's no reason for you to hold us back, to discuss this very serious subject called the Budget Law. We insist, Chairman, that you continue to conduct the session by talking about the agenda points, and you outside the assembly hall try to sort out these relations. You'd best go to the same boss. He's no longer Montgomery, let me tell you, he's no longer active, but someone like him is. Let him help you settle down here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27158	Thank you. As I said earlier, we will try to continue in the tone of the topic we are discussing, the laws, the budget and all the other laws that are on the agenda today. Do you wish, Mr Mircic, that the National Assembly be declared in the day of voting on my violation of the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the National Assembly? Milorad Mircic: Yes. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have waited patiently, although I have called, Malten, above all. Article 104, Article 108 and Article 109. Article 104 speaks of replicas. It's your discretionary right to give the replica or not, but two conditions must be met before. So, someone to be mentioned. , In the case I advertised, on the word “joyful”, you gave Mr. “heinekens” a replica. So, if I say "happily" again, I hope that you will not give Mr. Heineken the right to the line in which he is the most harsh, and this is about Article 109, which is why you had to give a warning, a whole proud people. All of us who had victims in that war didn't deserve to be insulted in this way by the poor remnants of the democratic party, which is just what it is called. A team before I was personally on Jahorina in the 1990s, regardless of the letter to Mladić and congratulations, I saw the management of DS, then, which, unlike these remains, was very patriotic. You let me tell you stories about the thieving expert on the petty and large thefts he personally committed, and I tell you in the end that it was my impression that they would bomb us themselves for a good bribe.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27160	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27161	Article 27, Mr. Marinkovic. Of course, I'm not answering because of that tiara about the joint boss from earlier. I assume the gentleman was referring to their joint boss and yellow company, Gilas Dragan, whose supervisory and management boards had been around for some time or the other one from the AP Vojvodina, with whom they also cooperated beautifully. I don't care about that. If they're going to leave the session, that's their business. I would like to tell you, Mr Marinkovic, that I insist that you plead on what happened just now when the MP "canocica" said what he said. I think there's an obligation on your part to plead to a call from our side to give a warning about what's been said. He didn't say anything. There are in the National Assembly of All and All, it's true, but I don't remember the last time we heard it said here that we were to blame for the wars, for destroying the country and for imposing sanctions, that we had imposed ourselves sanctions. It's not a question of whether you insulted someone you don't politically stand for, who you politically hate. It's a matter of elemental relationship with the people you belong to, gentlemen. (Balsa Bozovic: Yes, it is. ) I see that he also approves of that third echelon I mentioned earlier, who otherwise qualified to belong to the third echelon because of a successful business with the creation of Belgrade and we will explain it if necessary, if whatever is not clear to him. I mean first of all that "canoe" that is known as Vicar Dragan Sutanovac, a man who himself said on more than one occasion that everything that happened in the 1990s was when Belgrade started its tanks at peace, dialogue, the Albanians and I don't know who else, the same Dragan Sutanovac, whose greatest achievement in his career had ended, please imagine a beautiful, prestigious NATO course. So much is the expert who destroyed not only the defense system but literally everything he touched. For what? For a bowl of sawdust or a little pasture on the Wizard. You, Mr. Marinkovic, to plead with us on the subject of an invitation to give a warning about this. If you don't come forward, I'll ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27162	Thank you. Sure, I'll take a look. I've been looking for steno notes to determine exactly what was said. (Radoslav Milojic: The political position is that you are the reason why the country is bombed. ) Mr. Milojic, I really need to give you a heads-up right now about the throw-off and what you just said. We must have peace in the session and one normal and correct atmosphere. (Radoslav Milojic: That is true, Mr Marinkovic. ) Please respect the Rules of Procedure. I really don't want to punish anyone today. Now I had to do it because you're really misbehaving. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Sp Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27163	I don't have one, you have one. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I refer to Article 98, Article 27, Article 32. Mr. Marinkovic, when it's fashion today to nickname some kind of here, I would react, of course, to the previous exposure of this Mr. Bino, here, I call him that, because any attempt to bring the SRS into some criminogenic structure, some kind of robbery, some kind of benefit from the government is total nonsense. First, because of the fact that Mr. Mircic, and you are at that point, that you have listened to a smart man, an experienced MP, should have, and you have violated Article 98, to continue the debate, because he has explained to you the distinction, or the difference between the SRS, because here Nedjo Jovanovic said - the opposition. Please, be a colleague of yours to Jovanovic when you say so. We are the only opposition, the policy of destroying Serbia, the policies of kneeling before the EU, Serbian enemies. Both sides, and you, therefore, sitting there, are representatives of one minority partner, are on the same path to destroying Serbia. When you say the opposition, then you really need to think of the SRS, which is extremely patriotic, which wants to end Serbia's collapse and destruction, blackmail by Serbian enemies, and I ask you never to think of anyone as such as Mr Bin as to mention it, bringing the SRS into contact with someone who has destroyed and destroyed Serbia, as the said yellow enterprise, or as you now do it together by leading the same policy as they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27164	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes. - Yes, you do. Okay. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, honourable Members of the People, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm now setting a break of up to 15.00 hours. At 15.00 hours, we start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been made by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27166	Thank you. Listening to government officials trying to praise their own work these days, someone would think that Serbian citizens really live very well. What we as an opposition have a mission to do is to hear the truth here in the National Assembly. That is why we must tell the representatives of the authorities to make as urgent an effort as possible to objectively view the real life of Serbian citizens. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has carefully analysed all the draft laws under discussion today and I must say that, reading the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget, it has been very difficult to read the content of 229 to 477, so 248 pages on which something is written that can hardly be seen. This concerns no less or less the marking of programming structures provided by budget users with proposals for financial plans. Representatives of the authorities are full of mouths of praise about their so-called. Achievements, and the programming part of the budget is invisible. You are well aware that this is an obligation under the Budgetary System Act, because this is how the expenditure presented enables easier monitoring of the effects of the funds spent, as well as an assessment of whether the funds are approved under the programmes and projects are spent in accordance with the objectives of the Government. It is, therefore, the part in which the beneficiaries of the budget provided information on their programme activities. The logical question arises, if everything is really as good as we hear it in the praises of the representatives of the government, why is it trying to hide which programmes are being covered in budget 2018, so it is almost impossible to read. One more thing that speaks in favor of our reality under this authority is the merger of debates on all these essential laws in one debate. It is also a matter of how important the laws on the basis of which they apply are the draft budget for 2018. It is obvious that the government does not want a quality debate to be conducted in the National Assembly, and quality discussion involves sufficient time. If we had enough time, we could talk about this in detail. I ask the question – why is it written in the light of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 that it is necessary to enter into force earlier in order to ensure the smooth functioning of primary, secondary education institutions and student standards? Does this mean that only these institutions will pay benefits and bonuses by the government's decision or someone else's? We could talk about the effects on employees of the Bill on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. When we talk about this, the representatives of the authorities should pay particular attention to what is written on page five in the evaluation of the draft budget law for 2018, given by the Fiscal Council where it is literally said - the proposed budget of the Republic will have negative implications for the budgets of local self-government. This is just a small part of the arguments that we, as an opposition, are in a position to present in this short time that is at our disposal to discuss 31 proposals for very important laws for the lives of Serbian citizens. The responsible authority would have long been aware that it must do something to improve the life of an ordinary citizen in Serbia, not to worry exclusively about its personal interests. Only then could we talk about stopping young and educated people from Serbia and leaving us whole families who will never return to Serbia again. In southern Serbia, in Jablanic, Pcinjski, Pirotski, Toplička County over the past few years, there has been a massive phenomenon of the doctor's and other medical staff going to Germany, and not only the doctor's, but a growing number of young people of different education are leaving. They all leave because there is a huge increase in poverty in Serbia. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute of April 2017, the poverty rate was 25.5%. A quarter of citizens are at risk of becoming poor, and the most vulnerable are young from 18 to 24 years of age, i.e. 32.7%. Official EU statistics data from March this year show that our economy at the poverty rate is worst ranked by the total 34th observed country. This is not something the government in Serbia could boast of. On the contrary, the government took part in the poverty of its people, especially the reduction of salaries and pensions in previous years. It takes a long time for people who have suffered these reductions to improve their standard of living. I'm saying this because it's important to stress that salaries and pensions have been cut, but the prices of electricity, utility services, food and everything else have been growing. Therefore, authorities would have to be urgently aware of the real situation and indeed have nothing to be proud of, but have reason to reconsider their role in impoverishing their citizens. When I say that, the poverty rate, according to the record, Serbia, as I mentioned earlier, is in the last place with 24.5%, Romania with 22.4%, Latvia with 22.2%, Estonia 22%, Bulgaria 21.5%, Lithuania 20.7%, Spain 20.5%, Croatia 19.8%, Macedonia 19.7%. I think this statistical data is alarming and that the government needs to deal with Serbia's citizens' standards and lives extremely seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27167	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27168	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable People's MPs, I have one request and an appeal for all MPs. I'd also like to ask you to go back to the topic we're talking about today and leave personal and other arguments and arguments outside this house. What I'm saying is that today, after three years, we are talking about the key reforms that started in 2014, and about the budget law and the accompanying laws that need to ensure the implementation of the budget. I can also say that the reforms in the last three years, according to our estimates, were very successful in my personal, modest vision and that they deserve proper attention. In this regard, and the draft budget for this year, I would like to stress that it is acceptable and that it provides several basic principles in the follow-up to the 2014 reform. I'll point them out as soon as I can. First of all, according to my assessment, it's very developmental, first of all on the investment plan, because it provides huge funds for the investment cycle to improve and be even better than it was in the previous period. The second dimension that is very important from the aspect of the population that I represent is the social dimension. The allocations are much larger than they were in previous years, and in that sense I think we can rightly point out that it is acceptable and that we will have the support of all factors. Thirdly, personally, I think the deficit of the budget is such a nature that it guarantees further security and strengthening financial consolidation. In this regard, the most important and important thing for us is to continue the financial consolidation, to make it viable. For these reasons, as the president of our parliamentary group has been respected, we will give support to the budget and to the accompanying laws. What I especially want to point out and especially to talk about and in this sense some ideas and suggestions are the issue of the pension disability system. I feel free to say in the first place that the pension disability insurance system has suffered very significant changes, and I am also saying that it has been implemented most successfully. Pensioners, 1,715,986 of them, contributed to the resolution and preservation of the stability of the pension disability system, and during this period no pension disability insurance law has been applied and pensions have not been harmonised. Pensioners, 692,000 of them made the biggest contribution to reforms because by reducing pensions, we saved more than 70 billion dinars, according to my estimates. When we talk about it, my suggestion is to see again, there I ask the Minister Vujovic and especially the other ministers, how and in what way, if that is true, and I personally think that he is, to perform an internal redistribution. We're not asking to go into a larger deficit. If 1,700,015 pensioners cost the state 25 billion and 500,000 employees in the state administration 35 billion dinars, can a better and fairer balance be found there? The average pension rate relative to the average salary in this period was a constant decline, so in 2016 it was only 51%. That is why I believe that the next period should consider introducing a safeguard measure. The material and social situation of 444,544 pension users is the most unfavourable because their incomes are around 13,500 and those with an average of around 23,850 dinars, totaling around 950,000 deserve special attention. What are the results? Pensions in GDP decreased from 13% to 11%. Someone said 11.2%, and by the end of the year, that's how it's gonna be. This is the goal we have outlined and it is a European and world practice with a tendency to continue falling and that is how it should continue. The participation of the budget transfer, which the minister spoke of, was reduced from 44.7% to 30.014% today in 2017, with the expectation that it was still falling, which for me is one of the fundamental postulates of our rule of law, our social state, our social justice that intergenerational solidarity comes to terms and I can't accept it, that only out of contributions must pensions be provided. It's not in any country in the world. There must be intergenerational solidarity and those who come after the current generations leading this country and working will have to provide intergenerational solidarity and that must be connected. Furthermore, in line with the amendments and additions to the Pension Disability Insurance Act, the number of disabled pensioners is in constant decline and this is one of the reform measures. With over 321,000 now below 300,000. I have to highlight the work and performance of the Pension invalidity Insurance Fund that has improved its work, which with its 90% success achieves such results. Also, it must be pointed out whether, in recent years, any day or any hour has been delayed with pensions? They're paid regularly, and that's positive and good for you. I also have to point out very significantly that he is taking care of the poorest pensioners. The Fund regularly allocates funds for pensioners' recovery, so that in this year more than 12,500 pensioners stayed in the spa. Over 300 million were allocated to various activities of the pension population such as culture, sport, etc. I must point out that some local self-government is concerned about it. Personally, I think that local self-government should take over the obligation, as it used to be in Belgrade, and today I will point out my Novi Sad, which takes care of the old population. In this regard, it alleviates poverty and the situation of pensioners. On the basis of this, I think it would be very good to stop bidding on how and how pensioners should be rewarded. They deserve this, and it is my personal opinion that the Retirement Act should cease to apply and move on to the system set out in the Pension Disability Insurance Act. In this regard, I particularly stress the demands of the Union of Pensioners of Serbia who represent over 700,000 of their members, i.e. pensioners, and I think it would be very good, Mr. Minister, to once again hold a conversation with this population, as you said you were holding talks with all other budget users. Finally, I want to point out once again the very important role and need to take care of the village, of what is very painful and very important for this country. The minister who got this assignment to work on my assessment is very successful and we have the results in 2017. I'd like to pray in that sense, since I understand a little bit of it, to get it started, that's what we want, 210,000 farmers to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27169	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27170	I ask Mr. Minister, if he is able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27172	In the end, I can say that we, as the president said, will support both the budget and the laws on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27173	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Milan Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27174	Dear People's MPs, it is a unique opportunity for me to address you, as well as the respected citizens of Serbia who, through television transmission, follow this discussion. Mr. Colakovic referred to a key and important issue for Serbian pensioners and I expect Minister Vujovic to take an active part in all this. My position, as far as pensions are concerned, is clear. Pensions must be regular and pensions must be safe. The amount of pensions will depend exclusively on the real economic power of this country, on its economy. It is also worrying that the current pension rates relative to the average earnings are barely exceeding 50%. It's already a red line for me, which seriously warns that we have to take action and take serious measures. What does that mean? Of course, the system of pension-inhabited insurance that we're used to in the 19th century, the solidarity system that, four, let's just say, the kind of young man who's now heartily talking, paying off, and one pensioner receives a pension, is part of the past. We have new solutions ahead of us, and we need to find them. One of these is the reflection on the establishment of a solidarity fund, but that of a fund that would refer to the development of technology and technology – a fund of technical and technological solidarity. We, dear friends, will have a growing number of companies in the future that employ an extremely small number of people. Here, let's say, the data, Mr. Ciric knows as well as I do, that the GP Post Centre has 28 thousand square meters and that Ikea has about as much. About 300 people work in Ikei. Imagine now, on such a surface, with such resources, working 300 people who pay contributions to pension-inhabited insurance. But that doesn't mean that the total profit of that corporation isn't big and very significant. We need to think about how in the 21st century we're going to meet a new redistribution. It's just that we're going to have people, human life is extending, which is going to have to be taken care of one way or another. Minister Vujovic said here yesterday an interesting thing and he as a good acquaintance and a professional, someone who is not politically active, although I do not accept the the thesis that someone under this list is not politically active, and since it is politically active, the craftsman said that the PIO Fund will in the following year, it seems to me, pay off 527 billion, and that in 2014, we had 508, it seems to me. Much more. But, he says, he will not get too involved in how it will be paid and that it is a first-rate political issue. And I agree it's a first-class political issue. In the following year, it will be one of the most serious issues that will be put in front of this tall home. I expect all MP groups to have a clear view. Let's go back a little bit to the political life of Serbia, I have the impression that she's so missing, that we've all interfered, that we don't know who's left or right. It is time for us to stand fully responsible in front of voters, in front of citizens of the country and offer concrete and right solutions. So much for pension-involvement insurance. As far as Serbia's village is concerned, I accept Mrs Radate's suggestion. It's an important topic. And now they're listening to us, honourable MPs, I'd say, not all three million people living in the country, but a significant number. They follow and expect to hear something concrete. The surplus, the deficit, the economic category, it's all nice, but they expect to hear something I heard from the parliamentary group on the left, which is improving the quality of people's lives. Of course, the concept of cooperative in the previous year, I have an obligation to make a brief reference. From 11 April to today, 182 cooperatives were established in the Republic of Serbia. Dear friends, that is the impression number one, in my opinion this year, on Serbia's political scene. No, they were not founded by the Serbian government, they were founded on their own. They were founded by cooperatives. We, as Government, have given important incentive measures to 22 cooperatives. We gave 200 million dinars and they were spent on putting those 22 cooperatives on healthy feet. A brief report -- 12 cooperatives in five administrative districts in southern Serbia, six cooperatives in central Serbia and four cooperatives in Vojvodina. Budget for next year – you can see that it has increased to 825 million. Someone will say, it's small, someone will say it's big, depending on how anyone looks. If we are looking at the real needs of the Serbian village, Serbian cooperatives, depreciated property and the chances of that small producer joining and finally becoming a legal slave producer, it is small. That's where I agree with Mr. Chevrlic. But if we look, on the other hand, that the budget is not a list of good wishes, that we must also be guided by the principle of reality, it is also a considerable asset. In short, we predict that through a programme to encourage the development of cooperatives in the following year, this is important for the citizens of Serbia, for them a million and 400, who handle their possessions on 630,000 family agricultural holdings, can count on us to encourage the formation of about 60 cooperatives. Thirty new and thirty existing. At the same time, we'll go into the formation of complex cooperatives. I expect it to be five cooperatives. What I would ask you, honourable MPs, respected heads of Parliament groups, we are getting these funds and I hope you will support it, we would like to hear the real suggestions and remarks before this programme is presented to the Serbian Government, to present to each individual parliamentary group how we think we are doing, because this is a joint job. This is not the job of one minister, one government, this is a long-term mission aimed at preserving and preserving the Serb village. I'll take some more time, talk about the Serbian village a little bit. Speaking of the Serb village, the minister of agriculture is said to be. No, respected friends, the Serb village is not equal to agriculture and the processing of the country. The Serbian village is also the access road, the Serbian village is the infrastructure, the Serbian village is both an ambulance and a doctor who is most often missing and 73% of the village does not have a home of culture. It's all a Serb village. The Serbian village is also a new social policy, a new education policy, a new cultural policy. It's a lot of things, dear friends, and I'm going back to the honourable MP Chevarlic, and we've been discussing together how much money it takes. Listen carefully, he said little money, he says -- it's a good project, there's little money, it needs 50m euros. I said, "It takes 100, which he has spoken of: no worries, most of the messengers are from the village, they will raise their hands." That's when I told him, here, and now I'm convinced that most MPs are from the village, but he's obviously not ready to understand the Serbian peasant and Serbian village. I'm not sure they'd be ready to raise their hand for that amount. There are also those who think this is too much. It's their right. Finally, the project we are working on is not just ours, it is a project, respected friends, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the Committee on the Village. After decades, the Serbian Academy of Science and Art has escaped, they will not resent me, under the allegations, from illegality, and given full support to a project like this. I would like to thank Academyman Skoric, chairman of the Committee on the Village of the Serbian Academy for his air participation. At the same time, and I end up with this, his Holiness, Patriarch Iriney, is not at the inauguration of the President of the Republic, literally said - you are doing an important job for the Serbian village and you have our support. Therefore, respected friends who are now watching us, the Serbian village must, or the villages of Serbia, have cooperatives, hospitals, schools, mail and church. And then we can say that we have a Serbian village, that we have a basis for the survival of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27175	I thank you, Minister Krkobabi. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27176	If someone believed in the self - appreciation of the authorities, they would think that people from all over the world would rush to such a land of prosperity. The reality is unfortunately completely different, which the main characteristics of the budget, based on unrealistic expectations of economic growth, does not focus on burning problems, has wrong priorities. It is wrong, and partly unconstitutional, way of reducing deficits, as well as instruments to stimulate economic growth, it is non-transparent, gives greater discretionary power to ministers, and opens up a large space for abuses. First, unreal is the expected economic growth of 3.5%, and for this year the expected growth was 3%, and eventually it will be a success if it is 2%. This growth is twice as low as the average growth in the region, so we will just continue to lag behind European countries. Secondly, the budget does not focus on the most important problems, such as the smallest economic growth in the region and the departure of qualified people, but as priorities it has the acquisition of arms, and the outdated, strengthening of the security apparatus, covering the debt of losers and financing of unnecessary institutions whose competencies are often overlapping. The question arises, who are we about to engage with, when the government has improved relations so much in the region, and who would use that weapon, when not only does a huge number of military-qualified citizens leave the country, but soldiers themselves leave the army? Thirdly, the way the deficits are reduced, which in itself is positive, is wrong, and instruments to stimulate economic growth are problematic, above all, through huge subsidies. Instead of the proposed policies, which include a steady increase in public sector wages, it should focus on changing the structure of employees, reducing and rationalising the costs of the state, as well as increasing the competitiveness of domestic economy, in particular by reducing taxes and strengthening the rule of law. According to a report on the global competitiveness of the World Economic Forum, Serbia is only 78 places behind Albania and Montenegro and even behind Rwanda. Fourthly, the most drastic examples of non-transparentity are the BIA budget, as well as subsidies, which only mention the names of the companies receiving the funds, but not the individual amount. Non-transparency adds to the increase of the minister's discretionary power, which is reflected in raising the percentage for changing purposes from 5% to 10% of the budget, as well as through the large amounts foreseen for so-called. Specialized services. To conclude, this budget is just a continuation of the wrong economic policy, which the government has been leading for six years, which is why Serbia will not be able to recover for decades, which is why Minister Vujovic himself confirmed the day before yesterday, in particular, by saying that a good part of the budget will bring a better future only 30 or 50 years from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27177	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27178	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is not only the most important law the National Assembly is making, but it is even less just a set of items on its income, or expendable side. He's primarily a state-of-the-art or a picture of the situation, whatever you want, in one state. First, of course, financially, but then with implications on all the spheres of our lives. That this is best demonstrated, I think, can be seen through a brief review of the results achieved over the past few years, especially in 2017. To start with something that was, it seems to me, the most attacked in these last two days, which is the expected real growth of gross domestic product of 2% in 2017. It is somewhat lower than projected growth this year, but it is because we have faced a certain negative one, as the minister said, with card-related effects, which when you analyse, quarterly, annual GDP growth, you see that these effects are slowly lost and they will be endured by the end of the year. For example, in the first quarter, GDP growth was 1.1%, in the second 1.4%, in the third already 2.1%. So these effects are slowly disappearing. The inflow of foreign direct investment in 2017 will be 2.1 billion euros, i.e. about 5.8% of GDP, which is very important to say already more than the current account deficit. Therefore, the current account deficit will be fully covered and even more than covered by the inflow of foreign direct investment. Unemployment rate in the third quarter of 2017 12.9%, 0.9% less than the same quarter of 2016. But it should be said that in the second quarter there was 11.8% of what we are from one credible institution, that you will all agree, like the World Bank, to be praised as a country with the lowest unemployment rate in the region. Employment rate, record level, 48.2%. You don't remember this high employment rate. Since this is quarterly data for the third quarter of 2017, I will only speak in neighborhoods because I have found these data in the last four years and it was only smaller. At least, when we talk quarterlyly, in the last four years of the first quarter of 2014, so that's the quarter that precedes the quarter in which Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's government was elected, then 40.2% was employed. So it increased by eight percentage points by four years, at a time when employment in the public sector was banned. If that information were correct, it could be checked for much simpler mathematical operations. Let's see, let's say the deficit of the PIO fund in the first nine months of this year, and compare it to the deficit in the first nine months of 2016, and we'll see that it's lower. It's lower because the payment of contributions is higher, and it's higher because employment is higher. Public debt in the last few years has been reduced by more than 13 percentage points and it is not strange, because when you have a surplus this year of 0.7% of GDP, by 2.4% more than what was planned and for the first time since 2005, then of course it reduces public debt and of course we have the right to be optimistic and to expect that by the end of 2018, at the latest in 2019 we will have a public debt lower than the level of Mastrikt, or below 60% of GDP. All of these results, achieved in 2017, in previous years, give us the right to be optimistic, but they also reflect on the results on the reference lists of all international organisations, which subsequently improves our rating for foreign investors as well as foreign creditors. So, let's say, as we've already said, we've jumped back to the world bank's debt business list, so we've 43, some mentioned it in a negative context, and I'm going to mention it in a positive context. We have ten EU member states behind us. There's one big Italy among them. It is also no wonder, then, that the World Bank said that Serbia is the best Southeast European country this year by reform. In a report on the global competitiveness of the World Economic Forum, it is again mentioned in a negative context, such as we are 78. Yeah, but last year we were 90, that's a jump for 12 seats. And that, while I must tell you, none of the countries bordering Serbia have made more growth in the last year, and some have turned back. A relevant poll, such as USAID, conducted every year, says optimism among employers in Serbia is growing. More than half of the surveyed companies said they expect profits to rise in 2018, and only 4% of them plan to fire. That's why we have the right to optimism when we enter 2018 and expect GDP growth of 3.5%, and I believe more, because first those negative effects have exhausted, which will say that we now have a low basis with which we can make much easier growth, we will have stronger investment, first because of the increased investor confidence mentioned, secondly because of the much greater incentives we give this year for investment, so we will have a greater investment inflow. It is also a drastically higher capital investment of the state and ultimately, of course, we expect the growth of domestic demand, which is natural, given that wages and pensions are increasing, that they will continue to grow in the private sector of wages and that they are expected, normally, to continue employment growth. Before I move to an analysis of the budget and concrete items, I would like to commend something that I think the Social Democratic Party of Serbia has reason to particularly praise, which is two measures that show how a compromise can be made between the interests of workers and the interests of employers, which is, of course, something that is in the interests of everyone, and I would say in the interests of the state as a whole. One measure is to increase the minimum earnings by 10%, i.e. from 131 to 143 dinars per working hour, which is very good news for 350,000 workers who receive the lowest incomes. The second measure is to reduce the untaxable profit from 11.790 to 15,000 dinars, which is very good news for employers and which should contribute to employment growth in 2018. When we talk about revenues, of course, revenue projections have been done extremely conservatively, as so far, and agreed during the eighth revision of the arrangement with the IMF, but also with other relevant international institutions. They are even respected, I think, two of the most serious criticisms in the previous years of the Fiscal Council when it comes to the revenue side of the budget. They claimed, in effect, that we are overly optimistic about designing incomes based on corporate income tax and on exceptional non-tax revenues. I have to say that in the implementation of the budget, it didn't exactly show that they were absolutely right, but all right, their job is to give a critical account of the budget. However, either way, we met with these criticisms and in the 2018 budget, compared to the achievement in 2017, these two incomes, i.e. incomes on these grounds, are reduced by 16 billion, i.e. by four billion perspectives. So, it's highly conservatively still being projected, I'd say with an even greater amount of caution, and that applies to all other tax revenues, but unfortunately I don't have enough time to analyze them. In addition to this non-taxable censorship that has changed and, of course, the usual annual harmonisation of excise duties, we don't practically change any tax rates. So we're creating an predictable tax environment. There is no better signal for foreign investors than a stable and predictable tax environment. When we talk about expenditures, I'd like to begin by commending, of course, a reduction in interest costs. So, apart from turning the public debt trajectory, we've also turned the cost-of-interest trajectories. I remind you, since the start of the global economic crisis, since 2008, interest has been growing year by year. This year we've turned that ferry around, and next year we've got as much as 16.1 billion less interest allocations. This is the best indicator of how much fiscal consolidation gives good results. One more thing about the recommendations that the Fiscal Council gave in September, and the point is that they said it would be good to modernise the Tax Administration. I agree, it needs to be modernised, of course. And it came out, under the precepts, to meet. So 467 million dinars are defined for the introduction of a new information system in the Tax Administration. When you add to that a significant increase in salary, or more significant than others, that was given to people employed in the Tax Administration of 10%, which I'm not sure the Fiscal Council agrees with, but we're absolutely right about what we're doing, because these people deserve it. We owe a lot to the Tax Administration for having achieved such good fiscal results, especially on the revenue side, in previous years. So you have on one side better technical and technological equipment for the tax administration, and on the other hand motivated workers because they have been rewarded for something they've worked for so far, and then you have the right to optimism that tax revenues will grow in the coming years because it will be better done and the grey zone will be reduced. It was, of course, about removing one of the, I'd say, major problems when it comes to budget spending, and it's about capital expenditure. They increased 34 billion dinars to 128.2 billion dinars in the 2018 budget. That's an increase of more than 36%. And that's something the Fiscal Council recommended, by the way. They said 300m euros, and that's a little bit more for some billion dinars than we did. Also, subsidies are increasing by 0.74 billion dinars, by 2.7 billion dinars, but railway subsidies are reducing by 1.2 billion dinars. No one mentions it, and I think it's important because it shows that reforms in public enterprises can produce results. Of course, those in whom these reforms have moved away. Also, subsidies for entrepreneurship are increasing, which is, of course, a very important thing and I'm sure we all agree - 0.6 billion. New transfers also occur to local authorities for the development of innovative entrepreneurship and "start-up" worth 0.4 billion dinars. Transfers of the PIO Fund from 2017 to 2017 are reduced, regardless of the increase in salary, not compared to the achievement, compared to the 2017 projection. So, there will be further employment growth, there will be higher wages growth in the public sector, we know that, and in the private sector. The grey zone will be reduced in 2018. These are our expectations. So far, expectations have always proved to be good, and we've even outdone them most often. When you add it all together, you get a projected budget deficit in the next year of 28.4 billion dinars, or 0.6% of GDP, with the idea that it converts to 0.5% of GDP, which is something the EU recommends for countries with a debt greater than 60% of GDP. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group, of course, will support all laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27179	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27180	Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, much has been said and criticised today, on condition that I say, the economic part of the Republic of Serbia's budget is completely unfounded for sure. My colleagues also highlighted both the advantages and importance and the development component and the view of the future that this budget brings. I would point out some of the moments in the budget that, more or less orchestratedly attacked these days, have been the subject of criticism here in the National Assembly of the part of the opposition and the public, which certainly were not the subject of the attack, because they are talking about a changed policy that is now being conducted in Serbia, whose primary denominator would be the return of the state, strengthening the state and I can freely say the creation of a state that has been destroyed in previous years. What is the essence of the state, its institutions and its internal and external security through all segments of the budget, through the increases defined here, suggests that the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided clearly and specifically to build and strengthen the state. The budget for defence has increased, the budget for the MUP has been increased, the budget for the ministry of justice has been increased, the budget for the security services has been increased and the budget for foreign policy has been increased. We have a set of laws here now under discussion regarding public administration reform. All that makes the policy now being conducted in Serbia, represented by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a free, independent, independent and military neutral policy, has found its expression and reflection in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That is exactly the position, which wants to restore the institutions that have been destroyed in the judiciary by catastrophic reform, which have been destroyed in defence of the devastion of the military, which have been destroyed by security services where various foreign agents have been making decisions, in an active foreign policy representing state and national interests, it is now seen through this budget as being represented. Yes, the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to restore, build institutions, strengthen internal and external security, so that Serbia can lead a policy in line with its interests. Now the question is -- who are those who have criticised these increases and in what interest and for what purpose? Perhaps it was those who did everything in the previous period to bring down the judiciary, the position of judges, armies and soldiers, that corruption flourished, because the MUP did not work very well, that our security services did not recognise the fundamental threats that threatened the state and that our foreign policy was inactive and weak. That's why these increases are the main message to all those who want to get us back at that time when Serbia didn't ask questions and when she was just listening. Serbia wants to be a free, independent and independent state, to run its policy, to be militaryly neutral, to strengthen its institutions and to wonder when its state and national interests are at stake. It is a policy led by the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. She will be strengthened after this budget. Therefore, strengthening the internal and external security found on the subject of criticism these days is in fact the best indicator of how Serbia's state is being built and strengthened. It's not just about strengthening internal and external security and strengthening the state, i.e. The return of the country they took from us during the previous period when they destroyed it, Serbia looks to the future as well. An example of this is the budget relating to innovation and technological development, which is tripled and which encourages innovation, which encourages entrepreneurship. Therefore, strengthening the state, thinking about the future is essential elements, in addition to all those discussed by Minister Vujovic. Because this budget is a strong state, because this is the budget of an independent Serbia and because this is the budget that projects the future for new generations, to leave them strong, stable and independent Serbia. I call upon all Members of the People to support him in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27181	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27182	Thank you. Dear Minister Vujovic, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have a budget ahead of us whose fiscal outcome is not controversial and the figures, as I would say, are tightened. But last year, I said, I'll say it this year, it's a good blood count, but there are good blood counts, and the patient's on severe chemo. That is why the transparency of monitoring the budget and monitoring its implementation is important and in this sense it would be good for MPs, after two years of promises, to have access to a portal to monitor public finances. It is usually a foreign donation, a foreign project, and, as far as I understand from the finance ministry's reply, writtenly through the received, it is the responsibility of the ruling majority and the MP who runs the Assembly's Finance Committee and I urge MPs to get it. The point is to compromise policies, not numbers, or not to dispute the accuracy of numbers. When it comes to figures, otherwise, the general government's public debt is 580.7m euros higher than what is in the text of the law. This increase occurred 30 days after the text of the law was delivered to MPs. As for the achieved surplus and the planned low deficit, as many as 45 billion remained from unrealised and budgeted capital expenditures. Insufficient capital expenditure means poor project management due to riots in the public sector, affecting insufficient economic activities, which means slow economic growth, which means stagnating the low standard of living of citizens. Twenty billion are taken annually by pensioners, as much is saved on public sector salaries, without systematising jobs and optimising work processes. It's over 80 billion and it actually gave that surplus. The consequences of this result are low standard of living, pressure on the economy, difficult economic activity, low economic growth that makes it impossible for citizens to raise their standard of living, and that is one vicious circle. Citizens have been given the idea of poverty, and it has been explained to them that on their backs they should bring out this savings and that survival around the poverty line is actually the only proper way of life. Retirement of pensions has been explained to them that pensions are reduced to those flying in the Seas and that they will have to be satisfied with the summer on Palma de Majorca, so that those who do not have bread for themselves can not afford bread. This was given to the Committee on Finance by the ruling majority MPs, who is also vice-president of the Assembly. In this way, pensioners were explained how they should be sacrificed for the fiscal surplus. It was supposed to save from the back of the citizens to get to the state, and it wasn't done. Examples are: guarantees of 30 billion dinars for loans to public enterprises that are unable to repay them, fines and pens 18 billion, subsidies in the economy of around 50 billion, for the 6.7 billion roads, where JP "Serb Roads" show a loss of 13 billion, and get 6.7 billion subsidies, for example, "The Official Messenger" over 2.1m euros gets a subsidy, to make marketing contracts with Neboja Krstic, the President's favorite Twitterian, for "Er Serbia", watch out for this, subsidies in 2015 and 2016 of 90m euros, in order to get to be 4.8m euros. Had it not been for these subsidies, the result would have been the loss of 85m euros. In 2016, profits are higher by about three million, but subsidies were also higher by about eightm euros, which means that in fact the deterioration of the business of Er Serbia is a fivem-euro loss. As far as VAT revenues are concerned, I'm interested in where we're going to get bigger revenues, because the revenue side of the budget, unlike expenditure, is even less transparent. We don't see, say, where are they getting NIS, EPS, etc., because three-quarters of VAT was charged in three-quarters of the year, so I'm interested in how we're gonna charge more next year, a lot more. In addition, we also have serious waste in the country regarding various duplicated ministries, cabinets of Deputy Prime Ministers, cabinets which are also ministers and also have ministerial cabinets, cabinets of ministers without portfolios, etc. It costs citizens 17.4m euros per year per budget. Then we have, let's say, the government's EU administration budgeting 2.2 billion, out of which only 1.5 billion go to licenses, and at the same time we have about 4.7 billion dinars of various IT projects in various other parts. We have in the Ministry of Finance, so at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, they're at the Serbian Academy of Science, then at the Ministry of Culture and Information. So, let's say, those cabinets of ministers without portfolios and something like that, why couldn't those jobs be done by some other ministers? For example, the Ministry of Agriculture is engaged in cooperatives, not the minister without the Krkobibic portfolio, etc. So that I wouldn't continue to take up the time of the MP's group, here, I've asked some questions, and I hope to get some answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27183	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27184	The basis is the mention of the president. As for the note for what we heard, support for "Er Serbia", is that so, it's bad, support for hard-to-go state enterprises, and that's bad, support for subsidies, and that's also bad. Just one note, let's say if someone doesn't remember the end of 2013 and prepare the 2014 budget, is it possible that someone who sat in this room today doesn't remember the debate we had before, what, an hour and a half or two? We then read here what the draft budget looked like, since we are talking about the budget, right for 2014 and just as the one who, as a matter of fact, took care of issues relating to the sector of the economy acted on the subject of support for "Er Serbia", behaviour on the subject of support for the subsidy programmes, that he understood everything well then and did nothing foreign to him – and that he needed to help state enterprises that are difficult and should be singled out for subsidies, because they make sense and bring business to this country, and how magically all this seems to be forgotten overnight. Now, if something like that could be forgotten overnight, and you're in the position of the Minister of Industry, why couldn't he suffer from amnesia and any of the people's MPs, so forget what was said an hour and a half or two ago? On the side of how much that political damage does to itself. I'm not getting into that. It's amazing, after scandalous examples, that people on that side have just supported me to give up companies that are hard to go to, just on the case, here, "The Irons," to send 5,000 people to the street and show themselves in practice, and this shows Alexander Vukic, who you mention, and the SNS and the Government that we support, that he can be solved in a successful way, that he can save 5,000 families, where do you get the idea to continue to advocate such scandalous things? I don't understand that. Only if you find the urge to do so in those Twitter activities you're talking about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27185	Thank you, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27186	One who thus forms both politics and elects MPs can only function at that level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27187	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27188	Thank you. Replica. If the previous speaker has been given the right to replication based on the mention of the president, then any MP can ask for it because the president is probably the president of all citizens. I brought out examples of subsidies that are given to non-profit companies here, so we could at least make them introduce order, so let's say, there are no subsidies if you haven't settled and optimised your business costs, operating costs, business processes, etc. And if you're not profitable. So I said Serbia's roads, a 6.7 billion dinar subsidy, although last year they showed 13 billion dinars of loss. So the loss would be 6.7 billion dinars, right? "Official messenger" that spends money from subsidies on marketing contracts, although it has its own marketing agency. Is that rational? It's not. Whether Sasa Radulovic, while Minister of Business, proposed subsidies or not, will answer that, but do not forget that he primarily asked for order to be introduced into all enterprises, to write down property, obligations, debts, claims, etc., to introduce order on the basis of the ID cards they refused to deliver, with the support of the Serbian government, therefore, with the direct obstruction of the first Deputy Prime Minister, later the Prime Minister. When order is introduced, then you can talk about the subsidy, and this way you give subsidies and throw them directly into the well. To a public company called the Roads of Serbia, which makes 13 billion dinars of loss, you give 6.7 billion dinars of subsidy. Well, why would they be motivated to ever make a profit? Why would it be regrettable of these public enterprises that we activate their guarantees was motivated to ever repay their loans? Well, we'll pay them back. The citizens will return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27189	Thank you. Comrade Orlic, you have the basis for a replica, direct address and re-ment of the president of the SNS, but I ask that we do not enter that circle again and that you do not give the basis for a new exhibition after this replica, a new replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27190	Mr. Chairman, that's exactly what I'm doing. Now, are you going to give a line to someone else I don't call, it's up to you, I can't influence it. But there's nothing to suit me with that former minister of business. There's nothing to suit me, because it's a familiar thing. We've already brought it up today. Nine billion 81 million Serbian dinars. This is exactly how much it was intended for these investments at the subsidy level. A familiar thing, there's nothing to explain to me. He could, on the other hand, explain to me what happened to 37 million Serbian dinars that were transferred from campaign money to the accounts of his MPs' companies. Somehow he avoids explaining it every time. What I'd like to make clear one day is where did the idea come from, where did it come from, and that was the idea of that man, to put a lock on "The Iron" and send 5,000 people to the street? What makes someone think it's a good solution and it's better? It is said today that this is better than finding a suitable partner, finding a market and making these people work. These people are thanks to the good solutions, exactly Alexander Vukic, whom you can't love for three days, that's your thing, but thanks to him and the people who work with him, today I think the second largest exporter in this country. So, not only can it, but it can be extremely successful, it can be so well planned that it can also increase the capacity and number of employees, that even provide additional money to those who are employed in the "Steelers". That's how you do it when someone really cares, that's how you do it when someone really does it. When someone's just up to the story, like that story about transparency, then it looks like, by the way, what about that transparency when the association of citizens, which at the same time is a group of citizens and some club for no idea what, had the opportunity to show transparency at work right in the Sava Venac municipality. They were part of the majority there, I think, for two years. Did one single piece of paper come out from those they said they'd publish? Of course not. An empty story and “live to me, Todor, that a speech may be heard. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27191	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, colleague Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27192	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106(1) has been injured. A speaker just spoke out of the question on the agenda. He got into a replica, talked about financing parties. I'm surprised he didn't mention the financing of the presidential campaign in the last campaign, but he looked back on how in fact it was legal, as it should be, the association of citizens who have a group of citizens, business, and I'm surprised that he didn't refer to the financing of Alexander Vukic's presidential campaign in the last presidential election in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27193	Comrade Macura, what did I do to hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27194	So, he spoke off topic on the agenda, he used the replica to talk about what wasn't the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27195	Thank you. He was right. Mr. Orlic had a basis for replication, as his colleague Đuric mentioned the SNS president in his presentation. After that, Mr. Djuric received an additional two minutes and precisely because of his direct address, Orlic had the basis to respond. He didn't challenge a new replica now, so I suggest we continue the work and the next speaker. Do you fellow Members, want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27196	Article 103 of Article 8 has been injured. Mr. Chairman, you have responded well to preventing this abuse from continuing, but there is still room for this behavior to be punished in an adequate manner. Specifically, and since this was about abuse of the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. If there's any time left for further discussion, I wanted to suggest to you, I don't insist on voting at all, just to suggest that you consider applying that measure, to take two minutes to further debate this citizens' association if it's a group of citizens, I don't know what it is, because there's obviously been an advertising of the Rules of Procedure for at least two completely wrong reasons. One is to point to going beyond the theme frame in the replica. What's the theme in the replica, I don't know, someone would have to explain it to me. The second is the desire to talk about funding the election here, is that right, and I didn't do anything wrong when I put out what the notor facts are, that one association of citizens is doing business with a group of citizens, that they make contracts with themselves is the same man who is president of both. He's signing his own co-operation agreement, transferring campaign money, and then that money ends up where? In the accounts of the company of his MPs. Among other things, these very messages that have now appeared, if I am not mistaken, and for all that is known in public, I will not be wrong. What I wanted to tell you, Mr. Chairman, to take those two minutes, is the most painless solution. It would be much more painful for them to answer us now, for example, why they're not in the VAT system if they've made 37 million traffic. Were they at eight or ten they had to be in the VAT system already? That's what I was going to suggest to you, and to them at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27197	Comrade Orlic, I've come to understand your suggestion. I'll think about it. (Vladimir Djuric: Replica. You have no basis for replica, I've already told you. As far as I can tell, you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27198	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Vujovic, the honourable fellow MPs, given that the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group is our esteemed comrade, Djordje Milicevic, in principle debate, pointed out that our parliamentary group will support a full set of laws that we are discussing in the voting day, I will look back today on a whole new law in relation to the Budget Law, which is certainly the most prominent, which is most debated in this session. In particular, it is about the law on bankruptcy, so I ask you to convey to Mr Vujovic all that I wish to point out to the Honorable Minister Goran Knezevic, so that in any case, and what means our contribution to the quality of a legal act, such as the Bank Act, would indeed contribute to what involves the best practical application of this law. The bankruptcy is not only a legal institute, it is a kind of economic social phenomenon, to which due attention must be paid. First of all, because of the consequences of the bankruptcy caused by the economic environment, while at the same time due to the social consequences of particularly those of the employees of the bankruptcy company. In seeking the best systemic solutions, the government of the Republic of Serbia tried to find these solutions in the proposed text of the law, and in any case they represent a qualitative shift compared to the 2011 and 2014 legal solutions. What is essential to this law is that this law puts the accent on those creditors who have secured claims, which are distinct and publishing trusts, specifically banks. We really support such a solution that means that even these trusts that so far have probably not had a good position in protecting their interests in the bankruptcy process, now that position is being realized. Since in my legal practice, I'm most often touched and most concerned with economic law and bankruptcy, I have to point out that this law has given good solutions. The first body of good solutions to this law refers to the rejection of legal actions and the full legal affairs of a creditor. The reminders are, for the sake of disprovement of those real actions and those legal transactions, which are the most common contracts, which violates the level playing field of trustees, on the one hand, or puts individual trusts in a more favourable position than other creditors, or intentionally damages individual trustees, which in any case has the effect of refuting such legal transactions and legal actions. In this law, it is good to now specify what cannot be refuted, so it is found that it is not possible to disprove appropriate gifts, that reward gifts cannot be refuted, gifts made out of gratitude, separation for humanitarian purposes, and that is very good. Why is it good? Well, because there's bankruptcy, since there's been most manipulation and malfeasance, that's exactly the way humanitarian acts or the well-being of certain possessions were mostly abuses. How? Because through these humanitarian donations, it was mainly due to the fact that the creditor’s trusts, i.e. the bankrupt company, were damaged. It must also be commended for the provision of Article 34 of the Law that I am now discussing, which says that even loans that are concluded with banks cannot be refuted. That's very good because it's about those loans that have been raised during the duration of the bankruptcy. The company went bankrupt, it was suspended, credited to help resuscitate and eventually some consequences that could not be avoided, which is going back into bankruptcy. If the loan were to be disproved, then the resolutional trustee would come into one serious problem, which is the bank that approved the loan, in order to resolve the consequences of bankruptcy and to somehow revive the creditor, i.e. the power to continue its business existence. It is also a very good solution in the law that is related to the consequences of the reorganisation plan, and today we hear about the reorganisation plan every day, especially through the media, and it is finally defined that the consequences of the reorganisation plan begin with the rightfulness of the solution confirming the plan and the organisation, which has not been present so far, where the consequences have been discussed immediately after the adoption of that solution, which has again caused various abuses. Dear Minister, I'd like you to take a turn to the esteemed Prime Minister, Knezevic, a huge problem, and this problem is manifesting in the next. This law that we are discussing today provides for the possibility that after the submission of one reorganisation plan another, but here we have one disastrously bad definition that can cause serious consequences in practice, as it is said here – if again submitted to UPPR, there is no need for agreement, or the opinion of majority creditors. This is a terriblely bad solution, for it can cause serious consequences for the debtor and other creditors. What this means is that for the first time the consent of majority creditors is required to accept UPPR, and after we repeat this UPPR, or the amended UPPR is re-delivered, then no agreement of majority creditors is required. Can't you see that big absurd? I see him and my colleagues must see him and that's why we intervene in that direction. Please consider that. There are three things, three problems that are not taken into account in this law at all, and I have to point them out. First – the position of the licensing agency as a bankruptcy manager. There is a obligation in the law that if bankruptcy is opened over companies operating with majority social capital, so the state is a majority owner, it is exclusively possible for a single bankruptcy manager to be ALSU, i.e. the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants. Why? Well, she's not sinless. Can't they be other bankruptcy managers? How many creditors have done a lot of bad things for the debtors? As long as you want. Did anyone answer? Well, it's not. A very small number has brought consequences for their irresponsible work. It's about the fact that the malts left the bankruptcy mass to the incendiary so no one could take care of her. The assets of the debtor are not protected at all. No lease agreements are concluded, no bankruptcy increases. Who was responsible for that? Where is the responsibility of the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants in that direction? Secondly, all kinds of property, according to the Constitution, are even, which is what my esteemed colleague Martinovic and how well he knows. If they are, and are, in that situation, why would ALSU be the sole bankruptcy manager of companies operating with majority social capital? Well, the state and private property of the Constitution are even. Then is this the constitutional norm? I am convinced that it is not, and in that sense we must keep an eye on it and in that sense we must at least introduce one norm that, if anything, at least then the bankruptcy judge can relieve the trustee, the bankruptcy manager if he behaves irresponsiblely and works irresponsiblely. We have creditors who advertised in the media, commented on the work of the court, court decisions, who did what they wanted and didn't answer. On the other hand, the responsible and dedicated trustees have been, unfortunately, resolved. In the end, two more things need to be lit up. One is why a huge number of bankruptcys have been concluded, calmed trustees, and other assets. What about that property? Are we also going to create abuses? Will that property go to anyone who knows who and how? Since we are likely to have opportunities in the debate on amendments, I would like you to consider, with respect to Minister Vujovic, that in the future Law on Government, there is also my esteemed colleague Ćosic, that complete bankruptcy matter is transferred to the Ministry of Justice, where it is, and not to the Ministry of Economy, because 90% of the bankruptcy proceedings are conducted before courts and only 10% out of court. Anyway, we'll have a chance to discuss it. We will support all the set of laws we discuss. Of course, we hope that these amendments will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27199	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27200	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Vujovic, you are, and I can give you credit, someone who doesn't run away from the megday of political and you're here to answer all day today and yesterday, but I see that your fellow ministers absolutely don't care what Serbia looks like. The fact that Ana Brnabic was not two days but at the budget's interpretation speaks only about the lack of interest of the Prime Minister when it comes to perhaps the most important law under her government. So we can't allow two days of the government's commitment to explain to the MPs and to assure us why this budget is good for the citizens. If she has no arguments, then citizens can be completely restless, because this budget will deepen the bad life they've been in here for the fifth year in a row. So, the appointment of a cabinet session on the day of the budget debate is a disgrace to this parliament. It's disrespect for the citizens and their representatives. On the other hand, a five-million-dollar passenger, "Er Serbia", and the Prime Minister, must be invented on the day of the budget debate, to an imaginary five-million-dollar passenger at the airport, reportedly a recognition. "Er Serbia", in which we spent so much money, today we have, five years after all, airplanes that drop parts on the flight. I am deeply concerned about the security of our citizens and passengers, above all, and we think that this is more than rude by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the Army, I am sorry that Minister Vulin escaped, how do soldiers live in Serbia today, how do the families of soldiers live in Serbia today? Is it important just to invest in military equipment or is it important to invest in a man, in a soldier, in his status, in his housing solution, in buying textbooks to his children and to pay bills for electricity and to pay for food. You know, not everyone has an aunt in Canada, Minister Vujovic. Not everyone has an aunt in Canada, so much she loves them, and 22 times she crosses the border and 9,000 euros each she carries to her nephew. Now, it's a shame that citizens watch it every day and the same soldier and the same cop, where 850 million we invest in vehicles that you're going to buy with a direct government contract, I guess like this last time, and a cop doesn't have basic equipment, no winter boots in which he can do his duty. Now, that's why we're against this budget. After World War II, Dr Dragoljub Jovanovic in this room said to the then finance minister named Happy Black Zujovic, that's his name. He said to him, "Isn't it a shame for you, Minister, to have your army barefooted and bare barefooted, and that you're making a budget to be one little elite at the top of the government more and more rich and full of privilege?" That's why he was sentenced to nine years in prison and high treason. He was the president of the People's Peasants' Party. There is nothing else to add to Mr Vujovic but that this budget is drawn up by you, as other ministers do not care, as we have had the opportunity to see, the budget of Dusan to black Vujovic, who also offers citizens no new solution or improvement in their lives. Gondola in Belgrade, it's a very interesting project for which we will single out more than a billion in these two years. Gondola in Belgrade is next. In Zlatibor, the gondola has nine kilometers, 50 cabins and costs a billion and a half dinars, and in Belgrade only one kilometer, 30 cabins, several times less in length and worth 1.8 billion dinars. Is it possible to build on everything? On every pillar, on every strip, on every reconstruction of streets, parks and jars? I'm done with it, if this budget is as good as you say it is, then it was very polite to get pensioners back to the old ones, because it's a shame to take their property. You can take someone's foreign exchange savings tomorrow, you can step into our bank accounts and take all the money we have from our liquid cards, because that's how you took someone's pension. You've taken someone's life, your mortality has increased, and you're offering discounts only in the event of their death. It's a shame, it's ironic, it's what citizens are facing today, and for that reason we won't support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27201	Wait a minute, there's more people in the system. First, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a member of the 107th violation of dignity. The defence minister was brutally attacked here, the Serbian Army was attacked, I guess because the country's military power is being restored, attacked by a person who praises that phenomenon we call "a fly of prey". During the yellow power, more than 500 tanks, 220 armored vehicles were destroyed, this is all before 2012, over 20,000 pieces of light weapons, 282 tanks, T55 and 220 armored transporters M60, M80, BTR50, BTR60 and anti-arms of a polo type, as well as a hood of 105 and 155 millimeters. 1,100 were destroyed against aircraft cannons, complete against Serbia's military air defence. 26 multiple M63 rocket launchers have been destroyed, which is incomprehensible, as Serbia's sky remains completely unprotected. And today, it was a serious violation of dignity, from a person who is in a certain way a domestic servant of the former defence minister who wants to lower today's military, saying that the army had power when they destroyed it, with the obvious intention of preventing the restoration of the military power of this country. That's why I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been hurt, but I'm not asking for a vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27203	I thank my colleague Rističević. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27204	Just to inform you that fellow ministers have left and that I have left, then you would certainly say why the finance minister has left, and I have stayed, while they attend the cabinet sessions, where among other things the amendments that will be discussed on the Committee are being adopted, so that we can continue our work. With 1,800 and some amendments, and from that my group had 920 amendments to the budget, they literally worked until 15 minutes ago. Believe me, all the people worked on it and worked all night and 15 minutes before the session began, they handed over the material. It can't, because we want you to have time, that the Committee has time to prepare, to do it on time. Yours was to propose amendments, and ours was to process these amendments, and it's up to the government to try to adopt it before the weekend starts, so we could have time to have those materials before the session starts on Monday. It's an explanation why the ministers aren't here, and they'll be here soon. In light of your second question, the prime minister will come with them from the government and have the opportunity to address and ask a question. Third, I would only like to do without these formal things where you exceed all my expectations in breaking all norms, to appeal to one thing. The Democratic Party was known for having a consistent position in values. You have to solve here, so that I can get out of your discussion something concrete for this budget, for its realization, for future budgets, whether you want to pay more attention to welfare and to the poor or the richest. In one sentence you say: help the soldiers, the poor and the others, and then you say, return the pensions in full to those who have the highest pensions, far above the average, for the average was the same reduction as everyone else. So if someone had a pension above the average salary in Serbia, then his whole life had a salary of 30, 40 or more percent above the average. It is not mine to define who it should be returned to or not, it is the government's proposal to vote on, but you must resolve in your discussion, who you support and whether you want social equality or whether you want one minute one minute one minute another. I only see one red line, and everything bothers you. Please have a little patience to try to understand what's proposed in this budget, if you don't understand me, so Mr. Bauer explained all the elements nicely, look at them, gather the numbers, and if there's any discrepancies, tell us. In this way, you in each of your proposals exist either the additional side of expenditure or the reduction of income or someone affecting the policy that is the subject of government and parliament's decision. You have the right to suggest this, but do not suggest it as a final criticism, but as a proposal that can be discussed at the end of the vote. You know how it goes, from proposal to vote, to solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27205	I thank the ministers. Just a moment, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27206	Mr. Chairman, you've injured Article 108. The Rules of Procedure, because indeed on several daily and consecutive insults, the dignity of this home by Mr Balša Bozovic, you did not give him a warning. I can truly understand the frustration of those who wanted to destroy Serbia's army, whose hair it worked. The fact that their frustrations, the Serbian Army is not destroyed, but is standing on its feet, strengthening every day, increases their anxiety, but there is no reason not to warn them. In other words, if they are already inventing the harshest lies that they are trying in every way to degrade the success of this government and the ministries are working intensively on it, it would be their turn to answer at least once the question – whether the money for the Sorcerer's pasture and buildings from the Vrakar's pastures stems from the almost successful realization of the destruction of military effects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27207	Just a little bit, Mr. Bozovic. Mr. Martinovic, a moment. Aleksandar Martinovic and Balša Bozovic were reported in the system. Mr Bozovicu, you wanted a replica of the minister's presentation. (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27208	Thank you, Chairman. So, Minister Dusana, black Vujovic, what is very important for this debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27209	Mr. Bozovic, please respect your dignity, you've got an extra two minutes. Please respect your dignity and just a moment, you'll get two minutes, just a moment. Please respect the dignity of the National Assembly and respect the minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is very responsible, serious and committed to doing his job. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27210	I respect Minister Dusan Vujovic for the simple reason that he was the only one who had the courage to stay in this room. What's very rude of you, Minister, is when you say that you stand for social justice, so you'll take something that he's earned, if I understand you well. If you applied that to pensioners, who have earned a pension working their entire lives, paying pension insurance, then you can also give your apartment tomorrow and you and your colleagues, since you have more than many in Serbia. Either we're all going to be equal, as your logic today was here in parliament, or you're going to admit that someone's been kidnapped. I would never ask you for anything you've earned in your life. The pensioners earned it. It's not that they have high pensions, they have more pensions than some, those 700 thousand have more pensions than millions and 200 thousand others, but they've made more payments to the fund, ministers. Well, they've worked their whole lives and you can't cut it short right now. No one can take your fridge or TV from your house and say, "Well, someone doesn't have a TV, so we took it from you." They've earned it, and if you're praising this budget, then you have to give it back to them. Your colleague said today - there are reduced pensions in Greece. It was true, and such a law was passed, but the Constitutional Court annulled the law, as in Italy, as in Portugal, Spain, as in many other countries. I want to tell you...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27212	I'm done, after you interrupted me, I only have one more sentence. So the total in this budget of science, education, culture, youth, sports do not exceed one billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27213	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Let me explain, first of all, since I had a complaint from one of my colleagues about why I extended my time, because I interrupted Mr Bozovic during the opening work in this replica, and I never wanted to, and I never wanted to be, as my opposition colleagues called me a dictator in the morning, as you can see, we have a democratic confrontation of opinions and open debate and dialogue. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that Mr Bozovic graduated from law school at the Bona Fides cafe. So, Mr Bozovicu, Dragoljub Jovanovic was the president of the People's Peasant Party, but he did not say what you quoted. The finance minister was Sreten Zujovic, but his partisan nickname was Black. He did not say to him, "Well, the black ministers, but they called the man the Blacks from the time of the Partisans." It's one thing you don't know and no one could teach you. I agree with you, Mr. Vujovic, that the yellow enterprise is ideologically wandering. There is a novel called "Red Fogs". These red fogs, a party formed as a classic civil capitalist party, which advocated the restoration of Western values in Serbia, became reportedly left-wing, social democratic, now stand still when the International is intonated. The fact that they have several thousand-euro suits on them, that Dragan Sutanovac has more assets than all of us MPs combined, which he must have earned from the ministry's salary, does not interest them much. As for the gondola in Belgrade, it's the same story as the fountain in Slavia. When we made it, then the fountain in Slavia was no good, and they boasted that they had a fountain project in Slavia. Mr. Minister, this is you, I haven't been lazy, so I've tried to find the Public Voice since 30 April 2004, when you were in power in the city of Belgrade, according to the cable company to Ade. The Belgrade cable company's general project was presented yesterday in the building land and construction offices of Belgrade, marking the beginning of a new way of transport in the capital, and says -- a cable car should drive people from downtown Belgrade to Avala, in the first phase of New Belgrade to Ada Giganija, and was designed in 2004 to cost 14m euros. This cable company that we are designing in Belgrade costs 10m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27215	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: He mentioned me. Nobody mentioned you, slowly. Minister Dusan Vujovic is represented by the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27216	I really think that we should still agree on some of the things that are the basis of every budget, every fiscal system, every system in general where the state uses its position to take over citizens, i.e. Delegated rights of citizens to MPs, any intervention in society, including redistribution of income. It is a legitimate right everywhere in the world, who doesn't know it, I think we should get to know it before it enters this highest house of legislation in Serbia. So, at the aggregate level, we're predicting this budget that the pension fund will be able to divide 527 billion in comparison to 508 billion, as it was in 2014. I think everyone knows that, even when you include inflation that was minimal in these two and a half years, it's an increase. The distribution depends on the rules that take place elsewhere, not in the definition of this budget, and those other places are in the Law on the Budget System, which the government proposes, and MPs adopt. Now I'm going to tell you something very important, that you understand the logic of what you're saying is unfounded. You know, you probably have some relatives, friends, etc. who retired and you know how to count the pensions in the system that we have. It's a so-called solidarity pension system. There's no pension fund, there's a pension account. You know that each individual’s pensions are not determined on the basis of real contributions to the pension fund, but based on some formula that defines some of the best years in the pension internship, so it is multiplied by the internship, so that the best years are indexed in some calculated values, so it is applied and reduced if it goes early into retirement, i.e. it gets in full. So there's one very complex procedure, so at best what you said is only valid conditionally. Only a conditional pension depends on the contribution. I can draw for you and take any example to see it. For example, in my case, since I didn't apply, I have retirement conditions, but I haven't asked for a pension at all, so far my reduction is a real economic hundred percent. But that's less important. It is important that there are many people in this system, who, through happy or unhappy circumstances, receive a pension that is not proportionate to their contributions to the pension fund. These are disability pensions, these are family pensions and other pensions that are not earned by full-time employment. Therefore, the claim that they had all acquired inalienable rights only gained the right to pension, not the right to a specific amount of pension. Secondly very important, I told you that as far as I know DS, and I know many people from founders and Zoran Djindjic who was my friend at the studies, I know that it advocates a system of values that wants both the social element and the element of equality and the element of progressiveness, the right combination of it. I'm just saying that you said in one sentence that you wanted to help soldiers and officers and others whose material existence was compromised, and in the other sentence you said you were looking for something. We figure out the parameters that I explained earlier, pay everybody a full pension of up to 40,000. So, all of them up to 40,000 won't have any pension cuts. Those below 25,000 will all have an increase, and those over 40,000, until this law is abolished, will have some reduction, relatively small, adjusted by 7.91%, how cumulatively increased pensions have been since the beginning of this programme to date. The goal is for everyone here to get full pensions and much more, but the goal is to do so when conditions are obtained. I know that many of my friends and others insist that this be lifted and we think about it, but the government's decision and proposal, which came before this assembly, is something different. The proposal for a linear increase of 5% is a collective decision and a proposal, and I'm just telling you, it's a procedure. You have every right to say-- I suggest otherwise, but don't attack it like it's an illegal proposal. That's very important. Do you understand? So no one's arguing to you that you're proposing an alternative formula to raise pensions, to discuss, to vote, so we'll see. This wasn't the only proposal. We brought this proposal to the government, formulated it as an amendment to the Budgetary System Act and brought it in a package of these laws here and budgeted it properly. It's a procedure. It's such a democracy. As for the other elements, I just want you to be consistent in that policy. We can't apply one rule in one part of the law, and another rule in the other part of the law. We can't treat people differently at the same time. Let me give you an example. We had a rule that suggested that different ways of treating different institutions, but not people with the same status. So we suggested that all civil servants be treated the same, whether they are willing to help some independent bodies or not, because they belong to the same category of people. So that's the principle of equality between people in their status and we support it. Point out such illogicalities, and we will try to correct them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27217	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) Comrade Bozovic, just tell me what replica? (Balsa Bozovic: Two replicas. On Martinović's mention of Božović – "Bonafides"... You have no basis for replication. (Balsa Bozovic: Why don't you listen if you ask me? Just a minute. (Balsa Bozovic: Don't be rude. Listen to me when you ask me. First of all, you can't talk to me like that... (Balsa Bozovic: How are you acting? You asked me and then you listen to me. Don't interrupt me in half a sentence. I'm persiring you, but I turned the other way because I... (Balsa Bozovic: I can't persirate you. ) Dear Božović, you have a warning. I'm just giving you a heads-up. And now, on the basis of Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm taking a two-minute break, because you're not going to achieve the goal you want, and I'm not going to let a session that has extraordinary importance and importance go through this. (Balsa Bozovic: What won't you allow? ) Article 112 I'm taking a two-minute break. After that, we will continue in order of the elected Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27218	Dear MPs, I give a warning to Balsa Bozovic because when I entered the vice president's room, he said, "You want me to slap you," and that Serbian public must know. This has really gone too far. (Radoslav Milojic: He did not say that. That's what he said and he'll confirm the vice president. There's nothing more to talk about like this. These are not arguments, this is violence in parliament. (Radoslav Milojičić: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) (Alexandra Jerkov: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Stop the terror here over the MPs who want to work. What happened, this is a scandal. This isn't going anywhere in any normal parliament. (Radoslav Milojičić: According to the Rules of Procedure. You can't do business. I gave my word to Dubravka Filipovski. Talk to Balša Bozovic. Who let him come here and tell the vice president he'd get a slap on his face? (Alexandra Jerkov: According to the Rules of Procedure!) Don't yell, I'll give you a warning. If you're an opposition, you can't harass parliament here. Here you go. (Alexandra Jerkov: The Rules of Procedure. Give us your word! You have to give us your word. ) When you run the session, you lead the way you did until 2012. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. (Alexandra Jerkov: You cannot give a word to the Rules of Procedure. ) Do not be worth anything more than the MPs who have won the citizens’s will, do not be worth anything more than them. A reminder to anyone who yells further at the president, the chairman, anyone, the ministers and the other MPs. It's enough that you're trying to show Serbia how you and your voters are worth more than these other people who aren't making a circus here. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27219	Thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister Brnabic, respected ministers, is difficult to speak after such violence in parliament. Indeed, Mr Vujovic, this is a well-planned budget for next year. As you've heard more than once, the SNS will support this budget in the voting day. And to say that, just 15 minutes before my presentation, that Prime Minister Ana Brnabic is not interested in coming here to this high house, and just to remember Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic from 2008 to 2012, whom you could in no way have forced to enter this high house and after explaining to the Prime Minister Vujovic that she was a cabinet session, she really speaks of political inaccuracies. Also, to say that Prime Minister Ana Brnabic makes up when she talks about the results of "Er Serbia" is incorrect and unfounded, because I only ask one question – what, should we leave JAT, to garner in debt? "Er Serbia" fights, has its results and everything is transparent and everything can be easily checked. And using this pay phone for fiction and lies is beyond any commentary. Comparing this budget with the budgets of previous years is indeed a development component, more than ever in the last four, five years. We have more planned money for infrastructure projects, for education, for the police, for the military, for the emergency sector, for environmental protection, for agriculture, means for all resolutions. After three years of fiscal and monetary consolidation, saving, difficult reforms, painful cuts that we have been through, it is very important that we be disciplined and responsible in the coming period. To achieve everything planned from this budget for next year, political and economic stability is very important. It is also very important for me that the citizens of Serbia understand when I or any of us say what political and economic stability means. Two of the most important newspapers in this budget for me are the increase in salaries and pensions and the release of income tax for the establishment of businesses up to nine employees over two years. When I say: raising wages and pensions, it is very important that this is an increase in wages and pensions from real sources. And again, I will quote Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who is here, answering the questions of the MPs, cited an example of the 2008 pension increase, when we had four completely unfounded increases, and after three months we were in front of bankruptcy. Each of us is aware that Serbia must never allow itself to get into such a situation again. Pensions are now paid at about 40% of the budget, and only two years ago, not to quote just about 2008, 2009, we were paying pensions with 58% of the budget. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the engine of our development. I have data from the Ministry of Business that 30,000 new jobs were opened in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector last year, and that some 400m euros were invested after the entry of the new Investment Act, and 24,000 new jobs were opened. Of course, the end of the year and budget planning for next year is an opportunity to sum up certain results. So inflation is 1%, unemployment is 11%, foreign direct investment is 13% higher than last year when there were two billion, public debt falls. So all economic parameters show that in the next period we need to have one sustainable development. We are left in the following year to raise credit activity, raise other levels of growth with capital investments, private public investment and expect sustainable growth over a long period of time based on the proposal for a budget for 2018. This budget shows that three pillars of reform will be the priority in our country next year. The first is a healthy economy, the second is a dynamic, efficient and transparent self-government and public administration and, of course, the rule of law. In the end, I'd have a few questions for the ministers who came here. First for the Minister of Agriculture Nedimovic, and it is related to irrigation, how much will be covered for arable areas in 2018, can you say for 2019, is everything going according to plan, since 30 years have not been invested in that area? Of course, the question for Minister Vujovic, first I must commend him for applying the gender-responsible budgeting. We parliamentarians follow the implementation of this law that should be applied in 2020 in full implementation, and it is indeed commendable. However, in a budget explanation, he said there are risks to implementation of projects. One of the other ministers can answer that, how to reduce those risks. I can't help but mention education, Minister Sarcevic. The three strategic objectives for 2017 were dual education, which we adopted, the IT sector and the introduction of entrepreneurship and, thirdly, the introduction of science into the function of development. The first two are implemented and this is for every commendation, and for this third one we need about reforming scientific institutes and changing how to finance scientific and research activities. Could you give us some clarifications as to how certain things stand in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27220	Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27221	Thank you. President-in-Office, Article 27. You have to run this session as it says in the Rules of Procedure, not how you think. Even in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to make warnings by flying into an O.R. the moment the government comes in, where you're not there, you don't know what happened, you don't know what the circumstances have been, that you're harassing us here just because you have the right to turn on, turn off the microphone. It is you who carry out the violence, Mrs Gojkovic, you and your MPs who have the right to abuse this Rules of Procedure, who have the right to receive the word every time they ask for it, to replicate whether or not they have reported for the replica, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, who have the right to insult, to demean, to disprove other MPs and your fictional stories about what happened, when it happened, who told whom, it would really be just like that, as if I had said that everyone here heard that at that moment, when you entered the hall, you insulted me. It's not your first time. The fictional insults that you've been sent here, no one has to suffer. Your number of MPs does not give you the right to harass those who are in the minority. If you think that any of the violence you've been committing here for months against the MPs will scare and withdraw and stop saying what they're thinking, then I don't think you've gotten to know us very well. No one will scare you, Mrs. Gojkovic. You can threaten with warnings, you can break the Rules of Procedure all you want, you can turn off our microphones, you can make up that someone is insulting you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27222	Thank you. Article 27 has nothing to do with what you have delivered a political speech, not about the essence of having a session, as it is foreseen in Article 27 that the president of the National Assembly or chair of the session represents the National Assembly, etc. If the power of argument is a small number, you are not the only opposition, a small number of opposition MPs to approach the chair and tell the vice president – you want me to slap you, then I admit my mistake stopping it. I was in the O.R. and Balsa Bozovic was quite surprised when he saw me and when I showed him this way... Alexander Jerkov throws. Don't throw it at me, be so polite to listen. So, your strength has become violence lately and don't be an opposition, that you're the only opposition in this House. So this last bench doesn't mean there's no opposition in high school, there's no opposition here, and I don't know where else. Therefore, don't be a representative of the opposition and say I'm harassing the opposition. Curses, violence... I am shocked that every violence and physical and verbal welcome to you and that it is a positive violence and that there is a desirable and undesirable violence. The most desirable violence is when Balsa Bozovic approaches the vice president and says – you want me to slap you now. It's an opposition act and there's no need to give a warning, I should compliment him, buy him a chocolate, what? Not to say how desirable it was for someone to break into the cabinet... You can't stand me for reasons I don't know why. It's some kind of private frustration I guess, I don't know, but the president of some congregation in the world, and that's normal for you on TV, too -- if that ever happened. You better analyze yourself, and the president will run the session and I won't allow it. If anyone tells you, I'm going to slap you now, fly out, get all the warnings of the world. Don't, so the people want the budget. I don't know if you ever go out and talk to the people. I was asked today by a nurse when 10,000 will be. I say when we adopt the budget. You explain why we're doing business here whether Balsha will slap someone or not with your failed attempt to justify it. You explain, and I'll say the warnings whenever someone swears, beats people, insults, disrespects. You can yell that you're all the opposition you want, as much as you want. It has now become a light motive – we are an opposition, someone is jeopardizing us. You're worth nothing more than this vice president. He's from the SPS, and someone voted for him and his voters, I won't let you belittled by Balsa Bozovic coming up and saying, "I'll slap you, will you." He didn't say yes. That he said yes, so let's talk about it. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. He can't. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27223	As part of these agenda points, we also received one supplement of the Budget Law for 2017. We have received very important, significant laws, except for this budget law for 2018. We got bankruptcy laws, terrorism prevention laws, money laundering. We've got a lot of laws that are very important, very important, but because of the boredom of time, obviously we can't even discuss all these legal proposals. The truth is, budget law is the law above the law, if that's how it can be defined. Perhaps it is best that this first point paints the character of the 2018 budget. In fact, this amendment and the addition of the Law on Budgets for 2017 provides for a social programme, which is one-time assistance to employees in Vojsca, Police and the state administration of 10,000 dinars, and that is, in some ways, the introduction of the Budget Act for 2018. Regardless of what Minister Vujovic is trying to explain to us that the draft budget for 2018 is a development budget, Mr Vujovicu, you are a man of profession, you have enough experience. In order to believe your claims here, we must have a final account in front of us for the previous period, to see how much funds were spent in the previous period, so that we can now say – yes, this law provides for an increase in funding for future investments and we are sure that the percentage of these investments will be satisfactory. This way, we can only guess with an ominous method that, let's just say, the funds provided for investments in passenger and rail infrastructure have been spent or used at a very low percentage. We can, I say, only by one similar method, we can't do anything precise and true. Why? Because that's obviously the intention, the government's intensities to not file a final bill, a report on the funds spent over the past period. And we are here denied the possibility of making any comparison. Secondly, this bill can also be said to be the social budget. Why? Because we are all aware that here most of the government's resources and efforts to achieve this social peace, we are talking here, and the main topic is to raise salaries for employees, increase pensions, we are here talking about a top-notch achievement in social policy, boasting that every cop and every soldier will have their boots and their uniform. Is that the highlight of this government's achievements and this budget? Then it's a social category. Then it's the basic care of members of both the military and the police. When we talk about the nature of one of the most endangered categories of the population, threatened by standards, about pensioners, you lose, gentlemen, out of the sight that this 5% is not nearly as much as the cost of living in the past period. And even if it wasn't, let's put aside, are you close to that raise or that pension level from which you reduced pensioners' income? But now we have a real situation – the cost of life over the past period has grown so much that this 5%, you won't misread us radicals, just looks funny. Even 10% of pay increases in certain categories are not enough to cover basic basic costs. Let's not talk about mother care, the maternity care, the third child. There's no consensus in the government, and you're arguing. The resolution minister in charge of this, when it comes to the third child, when it comes to childcare, he is leading the controversy with the minister in charge of traffic, for construction infrastructure. Where's that? What government? It's only in Serbia. Only in Serbia there are such universalists that only Zoran Mihajlovic knows everything after Tito. Only Joseph Broz knew everything, and after Joseph Broz, here we also welcomed Zorana Mihajlovic. And she understands everything. While she was in energy, a disaster. When it was for environmental science, it was an even bigger disaster. Now, instead of considering the realisation of the funds that are meant for investment in its portfolio here, we are considering something that is beyond its domain and its ingenuity. And so it is from year to year, from budget to budget. And you think that that's how you, the Serbian radicals, are going to fool us, or that you're going to convince the citizens that there's something better waiting for them? What you're trying to do, Minister, all the time, is show how much the International Monetary Fund appreciates your efforts, the government's efforts in which you are. The International Monetary Fund doesn't appreciate anyone unless they meet their obligations. You know that, don't you, Minister? You are a man of great experience, who had in Ukraine, a rich country. However, you were then in the role of the World Bank representative, who initially, as the International Monetary Fund of Serbia now praised Ukraine, as a great perspective for Ukraine, brightens the future, only to distance itself from Russia and Russian capital. When Ukraine collapsed, where's the IMF? Where's your World Bank? You take this as a pessimistic, because you're a pensioner of the World Bank and yet, if anything, you're emotionally attached to that institution. She's nowhere to be found. They're experiencing such an economic crisis that it's a question of how they'll get away with it. And they still have an additional armed conflict with Russia. Well, isn't that Serbia's perspective? You're telling us how on the credit list, or on the credit card list, Serbia is getting better and better quoted. You know that the position currently taking Serbia depends not only on Serbia's financial capabilities and economic potential, it depends on Serbia's relationship with the Kosovo and Metohija issue. You know it best. You know that this changes quickly, if Serbia shows insubordination when it comes to KIM. What is your argument that this is an accelerated path to the European Union? Here, the other day we heard that in 2019, Serbia must finally resolve the issue of the dispute with Kosovo, as the European Union says. Serbia must recognise Kosovo, in order to be eventually admitted to the European Union in 2025. What is noticeable here is attacks from the ranks of those who are more or less in function the same as the ruling majority – the attack is the military's equipment and the means spent on military equipment. It's not an army to wage a war. The military is to warn those who want war against Serbia or want something bad for Serbia. No army serves primarily to wage war. Is it an ultimate intention, but why would the Serbian army be an exception? That's what most people in this ruling coalition would ask, as would those who were in the DOS by yesterday. Anyway, that's their role now. That role will soon be replaced, believe me. When they come into the ranks of the opposition, they will ask why the army is equipped. What the Government promises are, when it comes to this budget, that there will be development in agriculture, that much better conditions will be in education and health, and you forget, gentlemen, that you have brought such restrictive moves and decisions into a situation and those working in the institutions of the state, especially in health, that because of the material and financial situation, these problems must be solved abroad, and that you have closed any possibility, or almost any possibility for young people to be employed. It is not the quality of services that every Serbian citizen deserves. Why? Because your policy is wrong. You invest in school, in science, only when it comes to standard, when it comes to material conditions. You don't support young talents, smart people. Any state, including Serbia, can only get out of the crisis if it is run by smart people and we, Serbian radicals, will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27224	Thank you. Maja Vidinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27225	Mr. President, I've come forward after a direct breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've violated Article 100. In the meantime, not giving me the right, you know, to handle the Assembly and to conduct the session means that you are in charge of the Assembly and that you must give me your word, both to me and to all MPs and MPs, when you are bound by the Rules of Procedure, not by your will or by your suggestion or by the orders of your right-hand counterparts. (Alexander Markovic: Which member? ( A) What member? Listen, I'm guessing you're focused and you can follow what's clear to all citizens, and that's this naked intention, which is clear to all citizens, that you want to create chaos here, not to talk about the budget, but to talk about some sort of alleged swearing and everything. What citizens today had the opportunity to see, it is an incredible abuse of the Rules of Procedure by the SNS, where Mr Martinovic was given the word by the Rules of Procedure, which recapitalises himself, who insults the students of the Faculty of Law, calling them that they did not finish the university fairly, but sat in the "Bonafides". You know, there are people in this country who have studied and worked fairly. Some students in this country have acquired their diplomas fairly. I know it's for SNS...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27226	Please, don't replicate it. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27227	This is a very important law, one of the most important laws, where the government is not only about numbers and economics, mathematics, but also about citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27228	Please, don't replicate it. You're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27229	... What's the priority for this government? Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Article 100 and Article 103. I believe, even though you've had a break that you're still focused, you can follow what you're saying. The MPs haven't left here since this morning, and we have no intention of leaving, although the government is coming here, or the Prime Minister, not until 5:00, on the second day of the debate... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27230	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure does not mean the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. replication or lack of group time, to replace the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Maya Vidinović: Please turn on my microphone.) ) This is an abuse of the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm very focused, there's no need to disrespect me. I assume you're focused, too. We're working very hard today. The opposition MPs, as well as those who support the government of the Republic of Serbia, are trying to discuss the budget. No one here says that 60 MPs, say, opposition or opposition parties, are a mess. The chaos in parliament makes four, five MPs from opposition parties, mostly from DS and Dveri, I will not give you names. (Alexandra Jerkov: This is what you can see on TV.) I'm glad you're following that, because there's something you can learn when I give interviews, and a journalist jumps on my head. So, MP Balša Bozovic... No one will throw you out, Majo Vidinović. Don't worry about it. That's what you all do here on a regular basis, if you want to go, if you don't go. But, MP Balsa Bozovic, I was corrected by the present here who sits at the chair and tells me exactly what was said – welding the slap, you want me to weld your slap. Well, that's the only mistake I've ever made, so I'm not the only one who's heard it, everyone sitting here at the chair. You're saying yourself that you can't discuss the budget enough to discuss it. It can be debated, Serbian citizens have absolutely nothing to discuss about the fictional violations of the Rules of Procedure. About the budget debate... Mrs. Jerkov, calm down, you've been President of the New Sad City Assembly for 14 days, you've seen that job very difficult. Short, but you could have gotten some experience out. (Alexandra Jerkov: I did not survey. We'll talk about it later, when I get back to you, about what it was like to vote when you were being replaced and why you were being replaced, but about that. The word is Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27231	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us one of the most important sets of laws to be passed this year. The overall draft budget has been done thoroughly, comprehensively and fully, which the witnesses and these seven hundred pages, to which this bill has been made. We, members of the Bosniak Democratic Community of Sandzak, are grateful for including in this draft budget some projects that we hope will make life easier for all Sandzak and Serbia citizens. In the first place, we think of forecasting costs for capital projects such as the second phase of the construction of the Alexandrovac-Brus-Raška-Novi Pazar-Tutin development pipeline, of 20m euros. Then, these waste transfer stations in Novi Varosha that should solve the problems of the Sjenica, Prepolje, Pryboja and Nova Varosha dumps, and of course many others. We hope that part of the agricultural grant budget will have more hearing for the villages of high altitudes in the form of reliefs and subsidies for their inhabitants. These are good, necessary and important projects. We believe that similar in the coming period will be even more, and that this undeveloped part of the state will have greater accessibility to budgetary resources, as well as government concerns. What we think should be a significantly larger item in the budget is a minority fund of 21 million and 800,000 dinars. A large number of national communities live in Serbia, which, through their councils and greater, are trying to achieve national and contextive rights. If we divide this budget into all existing national councils, which are in the register of 21, then these payments are very small, i.e. amounting to just over a million dinars per national community which, you will admit, is insufficient for the normal functioning and functioning of these very important systems. We believe that this part of the budget should be significantly increased, so that members of minority nations can work better to preserve their own identity. And if there are problems in the work of certain councils, and in particular the Council of the National Community from which I come, the Bosniak National Council, whose council I am also a councilman, is considered to be very small, taking into account the scope of the affairs that councils are dealing with. It is a very important item for us, co-operation with diaspora and Serbs in the region, which is 165 million dinars. As a member of the Bosniak minority people, whose number of citizens are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, lives in the countries of Europe, America, Australia, and Asia, and especially as someone who has visited a large number of communities of these citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I regret to say that so far none of their associations, any of their organisations, any action or project, are supported by the diaspora co-operation administration. The very description of this project particularly highlights co-operation with the Serbian diaspora and says in the description, quotes: "Help to preserve and develop the spiritual national and cultural self-loathing of the Serbian people outside the Republic of Serbia". This is a truly important item and necessary, and we truly support it, but at the same time it is insensitive and somewhat discriminatory towards Serbian citizens of minority nations. Because such a relationship rarely alienates Serbian citizens from their foreign representations. This should change. We consider co-operation with the diaspora extremely important and it is a diaspora of all citizens of Serbia, regardless of national and religious membership. We assume this is just a result of recklessness and we hope it will be corrected. We suggest that part of these budgets be also directed at the projects of Serbian citizens of minority peoples in the diaspora, because this would be of multiple benefit both to them and to the feeling that their state cares for them and to the state itself. In addition to all these suggestions, which we hope will be noticed and respected, we reiterate once again that the good point is the developmental character of the 2018 budget and that we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27232	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I once again checked what happened at that session when warnings were made to Balsa Bozovic. He really told the vice president. You want me to slap you. I think that after such an event, we should stop today's work, see how we're going to continue in such an atmosphere at all, especially as the MPs of the Democratic Party deny and justify something like that. I don't know what else is behind this. There were physical attacks on me here in the cabinet. (Radoslav Milojic): Should we start crying? Thank you for throwing. We've changed here as chairman. If it's not good for me, maybe it's the government of Marinkovic. He was experiencing a lynch today. Here, how did that end? With the third chairman today. (Radoslav Milojičić: Hurt of the Rules of Procedure! I think that after things like this, where we can't understand a few MPs of the opposition, who even ask for justice for these things, which is the strongest argument when they swear, when you beat someone, when you're harassing someone in parliament, you're harassing the Rules of Procedure, I don't see how they can be done and that while someone's threatening to slap him, cursing, entering a cabinet by force... (Radoslav Milojičić: Hurt of the Rules of Procedure! Well, I didn't go to their office, but they broke into my office. Showing bruises, there is always something in doubt, because, my God, those four-five are oppositions that represent part of Serbia's citizens, and the rest of us are not worth anything. Citizens of Serbia, I really don't know how we can work and discuss here seriously what makes the lives of Serbian citizens. We'll make a deal, we've got time to figure out how, what, where, how, I don't even know. Indeed, I have also checked after these accusations of getting up MPs, women and saying, "injuring the Rules of Procedure," he didn't say it, and I don't know what, while this whole table, and the vice president who went out, because he's really in shock... We're all from different parties. So it doesn't matter, but the four or five of them decided to harass us. What's next? What's next? We continue to discuss and then someone comes up here and really gives one of the chairmans a slap. You can't work under these conditions. (Radoslav Milojičić: Hurt of the Rules of Procedure! ) Article 27, I am in charge of the Assembly, we do not have the conditions to work, we will talk. We'll talk about how and how to proceed, what time, what day, we'll see. [[after breaks]] The word is Milija Miletic. You have one minute and 28 seconds, if you want to use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27234	Thank you. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, and this is the municipality of Svrljig, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. By the way, I've been elected to the SNS list, and I represent the United Peasants' Party Assembly. As a MP, I will give support, as so far, to all these draft laws that are now on the agenda, in the first place of the budget, because I think the budget is developmental, investment and social, the budget is what we ask it to be. This budget gives support to both health and education and agriculture and cooperatives. Support is given to the military, support to the militia, social donations, everything that is needed by our country to Serbia. I would once again welcome this budget, because it is true that through the budget we will get large funds to invest in agriculture, larger funds for agriculture, bigger funds for cooperatives, bigger resources for infrastructure, bigger funds for small communities development. They'll invest in agriculture, for young people, for old people. It will be possible for cooperatives to get even more resources to join people, and I am sure this budget will continue to work on building the southeast of Serbia. They're going to invest in small municipalities. And in Žitoraja there will be investment in the economy and in other small municipalities. I expect that in the following year and in Svrlig will be introduced...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27235	Thanks, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27236	Once again, I will vote in favour of this budget. I call on all people to vote in favour of the budget, all fellow MPs. Allow me to call upon the honourable government, your President of the Assembly, that these days 14, 15, 16, the 17th, come to Srlig where you will have a great opportunity to see the beauty... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27237	Ambassador, you've wasted your time, you've gone too far. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27238	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I have heard a sentence from the opposition and I quote - that we should speak in the language of the people. You can speak to the People's Dictionary when they understand and when you come from that people, and because the people don't have a building in the pastures, they don't fly in the Maldives, they don't drive in expensive cars, they don't have expensive watches and millions in their accounts, then it's certain that they can't understand that people and talk about the people. The Serbian Progressive Party and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have shown by the draft of this budget, and in particular the funds allocated for continuing capital, large projects that we are defined for Serbia's development, for progress, for not being defined for the fight, for the conflict, for the reverse. We want Serbia to move forward, we want more factories next year. In the past three years, 70 factories thanks to the SNS, this government and Alexander Vukic were opened in Serbia. We're not going to let those who shut down the factories, who would slap people, beat people, who fall into cabinets, who bring stones for cabbage. We want to work, we want Serbia to develop and move forward. Where's Serbia today? Serbia is now on its way to prosperity, it is taking big steps forward, in Serbia today unemployment is down from 26% to 12%. These are concrete results. In Serbia today, people get jobs, not lose. So I urge the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament to support the draft budget in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27239	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27240	Since investment in the military has been mentioned here several times, I want to underline once again that every investment in the military is an investment in our industry, an investment in our development, in our defence industry. Every bullet we buy, we buy it from Serbia's defence industry, that's how new jobs are opened. Every good part of the remont that we do our combat techniques is done with us in our capacities, which is again investment in the defence industry, which is conquering new technologies, which is something we certainly need. I answered for another reason. I want to say, because of our public opinion, the attack that took place on UN members in Congo, where 14 members were killed, seems to have injured more than 40, we have eight members of our army there. Everyone's fine, everybody's healthy, none of them are hurt, and I want their families to know, I want you to know. Well, you see, our army is always where it's hard, where it's the hardest, it keeps peace and others, and we can all say together – they're good and they're safe. We'll keep them safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27241	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27242	Thank you. In the proposal for a Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2018 in Article 3(c) of Chapter II of Programme 1. – indirect liabilities, internal debt, in points 5.4 and 5.5 of 2018, the funds are provided for the disbursement of the annuities by the investment fund Export Development Canada, RTB "Bor" – component 1 amounting to 19 million US dollars and RTB "Bor" – component 2 of 10.5m euros, equivalent to 28m euros. These funds can only be foreseen by the budget plan as a conditional category because the payment of these funds is firmly defined by the UPPR programme for RTB "Bor". Under the plan, during the implementation of the business and financial consolidation programme, RTB Bor is required to meet all planned financial commitments. Liabilities to the Export Development Canada Fund – RTB "Bor" – components 1 and 2 are classified in the four trustees class, different creditors provided with a guarantee. In order for the state of Serbia to obtain a condition for paying off the aforementioned annuities, the UPPR programme for RTB "Bor" must be declared unsuccessful. However, at a meeting of the Committee on the Economy of this Assembly on 14 February 2017, a representative of the Ministry of Finance said that in 2017 RTB "Bor" will have a EUR 60 million positive from the current business, thereby automatically obtaining the conditions to delete points 5.4 and 5.5. My question for the finance minister is – who will pay for these annuities in 2018? RTB "Bor" from current business or states from the budget? Also on the draft law amending and supplementing the Banks Act, I can say that the proposed bill is good and its bankruptcy framework is positively assessed by many relevant institutions. On the other hand, its implementation in state and social enterprises under the protection of the state is very problematic. So the state of Serbia put itself in an absurd situation. On the one hand, it is a good law, and on the other hand, the same country is extremely poorly applying the same law. This applies in particular to large business entities where the bankruptcy procedure is applied through UPPR. An eclectic example of this claim is RTB Bor, where 2016 ended with 54 million dollars in losses. The question for the finance minister is – can a negative business of a business operator be published during the implementation of the UPPR? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27243	Thank you. Minister, you've got your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27244	The question refers to RTB "Bor". As you know, there was an UPPR implemented there which became a force in November 2016 and since then RTB "Bor" has fulfilled all its obligations, it is not protected by anything, it is on the market and all obligations to suppliers, all obligations towards UPPR have been fulfilled so far, it is somewhere on the level of over 100 million dollars that have been paid, as well as payment of credit to the Canadians of EDC that is paid regularly from their current business. We expect that this year "Bor" achieves an EBIT of about 50, 55m euros in 2017, which means that the UPPR process itself is very positive and very good and that we have received a healthy, strong company. We expect, of course, because of the large investments needed for RTB "Bor", it is about 300m euros over the next three years, we expect to make a decision next year's first quarter talks with strategic partners to make the public call and how we want to privatise RTB "Bor".
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27245	The word is Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27246	Thank you, President. President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, this address may be a little unusual and unusual, a good deed and recognizable. Because I have to repeat some things from my previous discussions on the Budget Law and be fully entitled, to say, proud of the evaluations of the SPS parliamentary group, and also of my own personal prognosis. If something can be concluded from an analysis of the budget that the current assembly majority has adopted in recent years, it is that the state is not a trotinette that can easily turn and stop, and then turn in the other direction with a slightly evicted sole without eliminating the serious consequences. However, if a large ship turns slowly, the results are of course inevitable. The conduct of public finances by a serious state which is recognised as such in a serious world, starting from the EU to the IMF, the World Bank of Russia, China and many other countries and organisations, and in particular the recovery of public finances is a process that does not take place in one budgetary cycle, which I believe has reached a logical epilogue after four years of strong reforms. We have a balanced budget and GDP growth. I remind you, if you've forgotten, I've been saying if we really want to get out of trouble once and for all, it's inevitable to take steps, which are, to cut expenses, not to forget people. So we increase revenue without killing the economy, to stimulate productive activities, but not to push into the collapse of the branches that are in trouble. Now I can say for sure, and I could even calmly finish my presentation and conclude that we did it. This budget points more than ever to the following fact – the practice of making budget projections based on unrealistic and incorrect assumptions has been abandoned. Budgetary planning for 2018, and also for 2017, is based on, not realistic, but I can say, on very careful assumptions. Serbia forgets about traditional rebalancing in times of former authorities, as well as those in the early years of our government when we were removing the consequences of the Javezluk. We have to admit it. That tells us, not only are we planning realistically, but that, in addition to good planning, we have appropriate moves, i.e. results. This applies both to the collection of tax and non-tax revenues and to the keeping of expenditure under control. Besides, we got a confession from this area from an institution that's very interested in this budget. Not only because the institution loves the SPS or SNS, the prime minister or president, but because it takes care of our country's trustees and their interests. When the IMF tells you that the settings are real and the realization is encouraging, then that assessment comes from someone who has absolutely no political or any other reason to make our reality better. When your economy starts to grow after years of cutting deficits, you know you're right and you managed to do something for the economy in the medium term, not just for the creditors. I know it can be better, it can always be better and we will always be a constructive part of the ruling majority. As we're prepared to always listen to anyone who has constructive suggestions, not as we've had the opportunity to hear. There are still problems, we're waiting for serious tasks that are going to have a consensus on the budget, and it's so much harder for me to understand the original analyses, so I can say, which are going to have and that are coming from those who have destroyed our public finances. I can understand that this is criticised by someone who has never led a country, who has never led Serbia, but it's really hard for me to accept the criticisms that come from those who have proven they can't lead the country. And we had the opportunity to see for ourselves the moment that we were part of the ruling majority because of the European path, when we were a minority partner and when the then government questioned the sustainability of our public finances and managed to bring us to the brink of a silent conflict with the EU. The sparrows on the branch know what's indisputable to anyone who doesn't want to be malice, colleague. Unemployment declines, the budget is in surplus, interest rates drop, which refinance debt, investment and net investment are solid and no more throwing money into wells that others have dug up. I'd like to take advantage of some now, I might use smaller convection indicators, but I'm going to use something that my parliamentary budget office is on my request and at the request of my indicators that I've asked for and which point to healing, not to healing, but to the health of our public finances. Well, let's look at interest expenses as part of the total income. Since we have significantly freed the credit that has been refinanced deficits since 2012, and when we finally managed to show all hidden liabilities that were not in the budget system and public debt statistics, there has been a decline in interest rates from 13.3% to 10% in the total budget. Since we paid all the guarantees issued form for which they were hidden, i.e. The budget expenditure has been hidden, so to speak, the participation of activated guarantees in the budget fell from 3.8% to 1.2%. During that period, we solved the problems of some of the biggest economic systems of losers. Of course, we haven't solved everything yet, we admit, but we've solved more incomparably than any other. The expenditure on employees has also been falling since 2014, as of course we were able to manage it immediately. Stabilization of public finances does not allow us to stabilise the salaries at 23% of the total budget. So much for some enormous employment everyone's talking about and some incredibly paid party functions. I can say that we're proud of these people, because they've brought results, but our people are not members of both SNS and SPS, or anyone else, but the whole public administration that's done its job well, no matter who she's gonna vote for and who she's giving it to at the polls. We still have a lot of challenges ahead of us. We're going to have to solve the constant problem of transferring the ball from one level of government to another level of government, whether it's the provinces or municipalities. There are no fast solutions, of course not in this area. When we balance our public finances, it will be easier to fairly share jobs and revenues in a vertical division of responsibilities. Our debt is falling, but I must say, when this participation is observed, its participation in GDP, the Damak sword hangs on us, the growth of interest rates above the neck, if there is a change in the world economy, and we don't solve structural problems until the end. So it's important that we finish repacking our debts, make a strategy for paying off our debts, which is why we do because we go to the mid-term as favourable as possible. It is possible that if we settle the public debt situation and make structural reforms, we will be able to think about the mild deficiting of the economy, especially if we have at least two years of growth rates that are above 2.5%. There's a lot of good expectations. We have balanced finances, we can think of a developmental item, of course. We smile in the perspective of reducing tax rates and expanding the tax base. We're done being a firefighter, I have to say, and it's time to create, not just save. I would say as a socialist that this government has a red light when it comes to irrational spending, that we are really in the blue ocean where there is peace, that we have a green light to be part of a family of successful nations, and that some interstate of blinking yellow light, where we don't know what we want, or where we don't, is no longer on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SPS support this draft budget because it is leading us in an unequivocal direction which is our long-term goal and the goal of all those who love Serbia and see it as an orderly and prosperous state, i.e. The European State. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27247	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27248	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, this is the most important budget and this is the most important law that the Republic of Serbia is due to pass in one year. This projectes the lives of all of us ordinary citizens of Serbia, how we will live in the next 2018. Based on this, these projections are being made. And based on what the DS saw, the SNS will continue its six-year-old boasting corrupt government and harassing Serbian citizens at all levels. We listened carefully to Minister Vujovic and to him from what I said, I have really respect for his past work, but the difference between what the minister is saying, between what is in the wallets, tanks and refrigerators of our citizens, I really am huge. You're predicting a 3% growth of Mr. Minister. Can you tell us why you're predicting growth next year based on 3%, because I can't believe you said here there won't be a flood next year, there won't be any droughts, there won't be any weather problems, and that's already one, 1.5% of the growth scheduled for next year. Is it possible for us in 2017 to create a budget that depends on the lives of all citizens in Serbia on the basis of weather opportunities or troubles. And how do you from the SNS government know how time will be next year? Do you maybe have a magic ball and you look at it and you create a budget, and you know what they're called, countries that create budgets and budget conditions relative to weather opportunities or troubles? I don't have time to analyze all ministers, so I'm going to touch on the subject of the army, and of course, Minister Vulin, which is in itself incompatible, but we can see that you of the SNS can, uh, join Minister Vulin with the military. Do you know that 80% of the members of the Republic of Serbia's Army have less profits than the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia? Do you know that 70% of the civilians employed in the Serbian Army have an average profit of 22,000 dinars. These people who work, pay every month, of the 22,000 dinars, are on the verge of poverty, 72% of the people leave Serbia's Army on a personal request. Only last year, 800 professional soldiers escaped from the Army, no matter what. It's SNS policy. You cut their salaries for the soldiers, you cut their pensions. You owe the country 10 billion euros in six years, and the only thing I can praise in the budget is not to praise you, but I understand why you put it, first of all, Minister Vulin and you of the SNS. You planned to build two prisons, two new prisons, Kragujevac and Pancheva. I know you're thinking about the future, where you're going to sit, to make yourself comfortable in prisons. Serbia is a country, unfortunately in which Naser Oric is free to walk the streets of Belgrade, and you have made a government with a war criminal, Haradinaj. The citizens are getting poorer, and you're getting richer and richer. Thank you. (Marian Risticevic: Thief One.) ) (Igor Bečić: Healing. Madam President, do you hear what they're getting me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27249	Replica, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27250	I thank the chairman. It is true that we are designing the life of Serbian citizens for 2018, but it is also true that we are redesigning all of those theft projects that we had until 2012, from the debt in the Smederjevska Palanka budget to four billion dinars, to the Gilasovo bridge on Adi, which costs over 600m euros. What does the IMF say about a budget like this? He says he is developmental, that he has made a turn in terms of stopping the economic downturn and devasting Serbia's economy. That is why Finance Minister Dusan Vujovic was awarded by the IMF and the World Bank on September 4th as the best finance minister in Central and Eastern Europe. We are honored to have a Serbian government with a minister like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27251	Minister Vulin, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27252	I really expected a little consistency from some people. Only an hour ago, they claimed we were bombed because we were guilty. Then how is Ramush Haradinaj a war criminal, if we're to blame for the bombing ourselves, as you were saying here. Of course, we've listened to all sorts of nonsense, and you're free to yell, win, it's music for my ears when you yell, throw. First, it means it's annoying. Secondly, you're in deep opposition where you belong, and I'm like you see in power, so I hear you throw, hysterically throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27253	Please, Minister, you can't talk like that. Please, you can't tell the MPs to speak hysterically. I give the word to Anna Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27254	Thank you. It is difficult to respond to the information provided by the person who, say, said my brother and I are behind the privatisation of Gossa, without any shame. Without any shame, a man came out and said something like that. So, what a lie it is, the equivalent of what a lie tells, what a situation currently in Serbia, in the Serbian Army, is the equivalent of such a lie. Besides, I want to, so there's no need, since I've heard, I've listened to the breaks of today's meetings and meetings that I had yesterday and the day before in Sofia and Zurich, some of the charges against both the government and the SNS and the ruling coalition and myself personally, which I'm not in the Assembly, although I'm not one of those prime ministers who sleeps after lunch, like some of the prime ministers were while you were in power. I also heard from this MP that this budget will only bring good to tycoons and SNS thieves. That's what the man says about the budget that was created so that the biggest increase has the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, which has increased by 21 billion dinars, of which 10.7 billion for education salaries. I assume that people are in education, tycoons and SNS thieves, which is why you said that, because it's absolutely the biggest increase for the Ministry of Education and Science. That the budget was made, not by the will of the citizens, but by the party basis of the SNS. For the budget where we propose to the honourable MPs, to invest more than 700 million in the construction of new buildings for the development of technology and science, scientific and technological parks, additional buildings of the Faculty of Electronic Sciences in Nis, additional buildings of the Institute of Physics, that's me, I guess, all the SNS. That's why you tell the citizens that that's how this budget was made. The budget in which we propose 3.3 billion for modernising primary and secondary school infrastructure, it's a party budget, it's not a development budget. It's a budget that only brings good to tycoons and SNS thieves. Let's think about it one more time. Radoslav Milojic: Of course. ) Well, of course, so tycoons and SNS thieves are primary and secondary schools. (Radoslav Milojic: So no one can even get a job.) )aHH The budget of the Innovation Labour Fund has been doubled, i.e. we have proposed duplication. This budget is also very well balanced, in addition to fully meeting all the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for which you, respected MPs, gave us a mandate and which I assumed in my exposé, therefore, digitisation and education. This is precisely clearly reflected in the budget that you have been proposed. You say that this budget is not innovative, never again invested in education, science and innovation, never again in Serbia. This budget is also well balanced. It affects the increase in living standards by increasing, above all, the wages and pensions that we have predicted. It has also been developed through the projected boost of growth around a strong increase in public investment and this increase has been proposed by more than 30% compared to the planned amount in 2017. And, perhaps, it seems to me to be one of the most important things that hasn't been talked about so much, tax relief work, but I guess that doesn't matter, either, as obviously, not education, science, innovation. For tax redundancy, we have proposed to extend some measures, i.e. to keep those measures in place, and we have proposed to extend the period until the end of 2019, to apply existing incentives for the employment of new persons in the form of the right to refund paid taxes and contributions between 65% and 75%, and to introduce new measures to encourage entrepreneurship, in addition to introducing this into schools so that people today who can be resilient to create a company can help in another way, to introduce incentives based on the employment of persons who start their own activities by freeing themselves from tax and contributions based on their own income, as well as on the employment of new employees in the first years of business, i.e. in the year of establishment and in the following year. I didn't see that much of it being done when this budget was criticised completely by reason of, in no way, the finality of any arguments other than the political flossules intended to offend this government, the President of the Republic, the ruling party, the ruling coalition without any arguments. The third thing, to reduce tax obligations for income tax through raising the non-taxable part of income, which has so far been 11.790 dinars to as many as 15,000 dinars, of which the biggest effect will be these people with minimum earnings. On all this, nothing except that the budget isn't developmental, but pre-election, that's on the line of economic colonialism, I guess colonialism is going to be conquered by our entrepreneurs from the start-up company, I guess. Besides, if we're talking about another important thing that you missed, it's obvious why the Assembly is threatened with slapping, because you failed to look at the culture budget. If you'd seen a little more or a little bit more in the past looking out for culture, there'd be less violence today that we should try to deal with. So we end up promoting violence in this congregation by threatening the vice president of the congregation with slaps. Culture, the increase in budgets, we propose an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Culture by 350 million dinars, certainly not enough, but we go slowly into it and that is consistent with the exposé we gave to the National Assembly. The improvement of the system of protection of cultural heritage is 25% more than in 2017. But it doesn't matter who cares about Serbia's cultural heritage. To strengthen cultural production of artistic creation 14% more than in 2017. Support for the work of culture institutions in the area of contemporary creation has increased by 21%. It's all small, because initial giving was small, but all of it shows a different signal about our country. That signal we promised here when we gave the MPs a program of work for next year. I'm sorry for not talking about this, but for bringing out complete lies and lies. I'm only happy and proud of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, because they recognize these lies, recognize the nonsense they say here, and recognize that there are no tax breaks, education, education, education, culture, social relations, but family relations, threat of violence, etc. Finally, honourable MPs, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, every time I come to the National Assembly, I have an obligation to bring you a brief report on what has been done and how far we have arrived. So, last time I was here on October 26th, I told you what we were doing for the first 100 days of government work. Since then, in this short period, I want to tell you something else that is very relevant to the budget, which corresponds to how you're going to spend 128 billion on capital investments. So, for example, it's only until October 26th. We started building the first energy plant to be built in Serbia in the last three decades, 30 years. We've finally started building the first power plant, 350 megawatts, Bones B3. We signed funding contracts and in March we start construction, for example, lab lamelas at the Faculty of Electronics in Nis. You know when it was planned? According to the original 1975 project, we're starting now. Today we recorded that Nikola Tesla airport has served its five-million-dollar passenger in one year. For the first time in the 50-year history of "Nikola Tesla" airport, we have more than five million passengers in one year, for the first time. So, three decades of the 1975 project that we're starting, this is just what I've been pulling out of historicly important things. For the first time, over five million passengers. Finally, and I would like to invite you all, and citizens, we are particularly proud of that, on December 17th, to mark the end of the work on the construction of the Nis Clinical Center, after 47 years. The construction of the facility began in 1970, but more importantly, I also show the ruling coalition and this government, and what the President of the Republic did, and I suppose it is particularly annoying for you, that the Nis Clinical Centre, I ask the citizens of Serbia to pay attention, this is amazing information, even for me, yesterday I was preparing for the Assembly, amazing information, the Nis Clinical Center will be the first completed facility of the clinical center in Serbia ever. The clinical centre has never finished in Serbia before. The clinic center was started and suspended in 1987, when only rough works and buildings were carried out until today were never completely released. We end it and we change it. This is all an indicator of the 2018 budget and how we will realise it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27255	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27256	Thank you. The chairman, the honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly the most important point of today's agenda – the draft budget decision for next year. Certainly the budget, as we have heard, is one of the most significant acts the Assembly brings, but certainly that this topic through which all other topics related to the state and society are being broken and through which all the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are seen, but also the results, and the results are evident. When it comes to the inflow of foreign direct investment, when it comes to the rate of economic growth, when it comes to reducing public debt, when it comes to reducing the unemployment rate, I will remind you that it is less than 12% right now, and when it comes to the record tax charge, so the overall economic picture of Serbia today is much better than it was before. Of course, evidence of this is also an announced increase in wages and pensions in the public sector. As we know, pensions will be up 5%, and salaries in health care, education, military, police, the 10% judiciary, and employees in the administration 5%, and that is certainly something we all must welcome, because this is proof that the responsible economic policy of the Serbian government is giving results. What's important here to emphasize? In order to even get to this point so we could raise wages and pensions, we had to provide a solid financial base, introduce strict financial control and consolidate fiscal policy. Today, we can say that we are slowly harvesting the fruits of hard work and giving up, and that is exactly the difference between us and those who sit across from us. They have increased pensions exclusively for pre-election purposes, not taking care of the budget, nothing, taking care of only and exclusively of the naked party interest. The election's coming -- raise your pensions. We don't have the money. Who will return it? We don't care. We won't, someone else will. That's how they run the country. And one more thing, don't be surprised at the previous speaker. He doesn't understand the language you speak. You're talking about the budget, and he's thinking about misusing that budget. You're talking about investment, and he's thinking about sucking money out of the budget. You're talking about savings, and he's thinking about combinations, like he did at the Smederjev Palace. One last thing, since that was the subject of the agenda. So, when it comes to methodological confusion, when it comes to the total debt of the City of Belgrade, it is a billion and 200 million, not 400 million who are trying very perfiduously to deceive the public. So they did not include city municipalities' debts in Belgrade City, did not include debts in the city's municipal enterprise figure, interest rate. So, the total debt is a billion and 200 million, even more, and we cut that debt, finished Pupin's bridge, 20 thousand new jobs, 280 kilometers of waterway, 550 kilometers of streets and roads, four new homes of health, 260 kilometers of heat pipeline. Those are the results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27257	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27258	I'm advertising a breach of Rule 107. We must react as MPs to the Prime Minister's statement. Maybe the Prime Minister thinks there are MPs here who don't understand the subject, that maybe they don't know enough about the budget. They may not know much, but they're stupid and they talk nonsense, you can't afford it, no matter what you're Prime Minister. You must respect every MP. You don't talk nonsense here. Secondly, there are no men in Serbia, and therefore there are no representatives of these people in this House who are not glad to complete the Clinical Centre in Nis. Don't take it. That's the state's citizens' money.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27259	Ambassador, enter the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27260	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was and I warned you from the scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27261	Don't warn me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27262	I'm officially advertising now. You must draw attention, as you just did to Minister Vulin, and to the Prime Minister. The members of the government must pay tribute to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27263	If the prime minister had expressed herself differently and if she had offended someone, I would have reacted, that's clear, but she didn't. Neither did she answer individually, but took advantage of the opportunity as the government's authorised representative and prime minister of the Republic of Serbia to talk about the draft budget that lies ahead. I don't know people's nicknames, so I can't take part in this. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27264	Thank you. Of course, a few harsh lies have been made, and just because of the public, we need to deny them with concrete numbers. So, the average salary of a professional soldier in 2012, at the time of DOS rule, was 33.308.00 dinars. After all the cuts, the salary is 35,284,00 dinars. With the January 1st increase, there will be 38,812.00 dinars, no inflation, no course, no humiliation of soldiers' wages. We should remind ourselves that we have also raised the logs, that we have introduced for the first time and solid compensation and that we are doing everything we can to make the standard of the Serbian Army rise. You know, we've singled out 1,781,22,000 dinars to raise the salary of soldiers. That is, in a year, the entire Serbian Army. Well, more than that, Smederevska Palanka is in charge. So, we could raise our salaries to the entire army just for the debt they made in the Smederian Palanca. Nothing more. To add to this, because of the vanity and the brutal violation of the law, disrespect for the Constitutional Court's decisions against Serbia's military pensioners at the time, of course, the DOS authorities now had to pay compensation of five billion dinars. So, collect the debt of the Smederev Palanca and take what the concierge did to the military pensioners, that's seven billion dinars. Look at how much we could raise our salaries to soldiers and everyone else in the security system just on these two examples and nothing more. As it was and as it was done, we can only look at what we're doing in time, you won't get angry, I'm not talking about Members of the hysterical need to destroy Serbia's Army, destroy, among other things, 9,218 pieces of a 2M missile, plus the launchers and get 250 euros for it. If we'd saved them now, we could have sold them at $10,000 apiece. That's what they did, and now they're talking about the army and talking about the standard of the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27265	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27266	I'm at the beginning. Am I talking or not talking? [[Radoslav Milojic: I was looking for a replica.]] What's this? Can I talk or can't? [[Maya Vidinovic: So she has the right to reply.]] [[Radoslav Milojic: I do not have the right to reply?]] May I? (Radoslav Milojic: What are you afraid of? ) At the beginning of reminding you, we are in December 2007, and the 31st point of the agenda is the decision...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27267	Ambassador, don't shout I'm giving you a warning instead of a replica. [[Radoslav Milojic: Why don't you give me a replica?]] (Radoslav Milojic: Shame on you. I apologize to you because Ambassador Milojic does not know the word “excuse me”. (Radoslav Milojic: When you have no arguments, you give a warning. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27268	Can we do it now?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27269	Read article 104, and do not act like one again. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27270	So, in December 2017 in this united agenda of 31 points, point 31 reads – the decision to give consent to the financial plan of REM for 2017. I first thought it was a mistake, that it was 2018. However, it is 2017. So what was to be done by March 2017 is to be done in December 2017. Okay, we don't even have the 2016 final budget bill, but we don't have 2003, and we don't have all these years here. What can we talk about today within this epic time of 35 seconds per item of the agenda? We can talk about continuity. So, for 2000 years, when DOS came to power on the arson of this building, it started building corridors towards Brussels and they worked for several years, first Djindjic, then Kostunica, then together Kostunica and Tadic, and then Tadic, and since 2012, this corridor has continued to build a team that is still today as a coalition in power, and they are only traversing. What happened to our budget system? He was methodologically changed in 2001, and then once again, the methodological change was made when the need for Mladjan Dinkic to be chosen as Europe's best minister, and then the great surplus and the national programme appeared, in order to be told after a few years – it was all a lie. But he's the man who won the prize. Everything that has been done since 2000 until today has been done with the agreement of the Venice Commission, the World Bank, the IMF, the EU, the European Commission, civil society as supervisors, who carry out what is going on here, the embassy, etc., etc. I see this fight on this side and on this side, and they're the same, mixed up. Same thing, that doesn't make any difference. Ljajic, impossible to get out of the government. Dacic, it's impossible to get out of the government. It's all continuity. When you compare all of our budgets from 2002 to today, according to all the items, if we exclude the methodological changes that have been made three times institutionally, then I have to tell you that for the last six years we have a factually modified methodology. What's the characteristic of this draft budget law is that you can't see it. Under the Law on the Budgetary System in the Republic of Serbia's budget, there must be all 2,300, which are direct, which are indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, and which are not available. They're gone. Almost 99% of the agencies are gone, they're gone. They may be hiding behind some of those items, but they're not there. Why aren't they here? That's what we'll see. Let's take what's since 2012. In 2012, the proceeds were 788 billion. For 2018, 1,178 billion are planned. In 2012, 63.1 billion went to the budget interest, and in 2018, 117 billion will go to the interest name. Let's see how it went with the employee's salary fund. In 2012, 238 billion, and in 2018 272 billion. As you can see, something strange is happening with that methodology. Let's move on. If he looks at himself, since we have two budgets in the budget. We have something that is actually a budget, and that's a funding bill. And let me get this straight. But before we get to this. The expenditure on interest payments, the first part of the budget, 117 billion dinars. Compare other items in the budget concerning social policies, subsidies, etc. They're all far less than the interest they pay. Let's move on. If you look at what the account of the financing of the Republic of Serbia will look like for 2018, here, I read your data, you don't need to rip. As a result of the borrowing of securities, which in Serbia, which is the Eurobonds, which new loans, new loans will be 129 billion dinars, that is, 676 billion dinars. Look, the total cost is 1.206 billion, 676 billion, that's independent of that, there's going to be a debt to be due by 647 billion, and when you look at capital investments, 80 billion, you compare it with all the items where you brag about subsidies, etc. Doesn't something seem strange to you? This is where the question arises – and who took the money? Foreign banks controlling the economy of the Republic of Serbia, via the National Bank, through the broadcasting of securities of value, which they buy, where they receive a much greater contribution than they have lent to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When you compare these other items, you'll see, you're the same, you're the same way, you're listening to the same boss. What you're pretending to be fighting won't go away in the next period. You can tell what it's about. It is a simple provision, which should cloud the essence, which is – there is no Serbia's prosperity as it moves towards the EU, acts according to the directives, as ordered, strives to meet the tasks and requirements that come from the EU and to meet it, almost without looking at what is trampled in our immediate environment. That's the problem of the Republic of Serbia. It's a public finance problem. It's a problem that in general confusion... Take the snickers, it's your time. That is the problem of the Republic of Serbia that needs to be addressed, and there is a way to resolve it. The first step to resolve is to resolve the finance minister, because it protects the interests of the World Bank, not the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27271	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27272	Thank you. First of all, I'm sure I won't get rid of the finance minister. The finance minister is great, he knows his job well, he's a professional man, and he knows every number you say, he knows it from his head. We have a budget on which this government is proud to represent it to the National Assembly. We have a government that the National Assembly, thanks to the responsible majority of MPs, is elected and has a mandate, and the government sitting here, the entire government is sitting throughout the debate on the budget because it is important, because we are responsible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the MPs who voted for us. I wouldn't even react to that for the finance minister, because that's what the honourable MP knows, but he wants to provoke. But, well, it's parliament and it's okay. But I have to react to that we're not the same, we're not the same. And we've been trying, for God's sake, officially in the government since August 2016, but these people before me, to show in practice that we're not the same, by ending Corridor 10, by signing a contract 10 days ago to continue Corridor 11 Preljina-Pozega, by finishing the Nis Clinical Center. And whatever you say, the previous government is responsible for the completion of the Nis Clinical Center and this government ends it. If it were easy, it wouldn't be the first clinical center in Serbia to be completed. We're not the same, sir. We invest in youth, in education. We recognized entrepreneurship, start-up companies. We invest 128 billion euros in infrastructure. We pay the debts back. We respect our obligations. We think of Serbia. I read here, one of the criticisms these days was from one of the MPs – the highway from Nis to Drac is against the geostrategic interests of Serbia. The highway that goes from Nis to Pristina is, the opposition says, against Serbia's geostrategic interests. Well, what are the geostrategic interests of Serbia if they are not highways from Nis to Pristina? And we start it next year. So, please, we can talk about everything, but we can't talk about being the same, because we're not the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27273	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27274	I just need to explain. Look, maybe you're not well-informed enough, but there's no state in the world where the indirect beneficiary of budget funds is a cabinet. The cabinet can't be an indirect beneficiary of the budget, and when you look at the budget, you see the Vice President's office as an indirect user, so there's some funds, be it for the employees, for the salaries, and we have two cabinets of some ministers where there are transfer funds. Where does that exist in the world? That's only in the World Bank rules, where the target justifies the means. You know, wherever the World Bank was, the state fell apart. They advised Argentina, they broke. Look, Ukraine, the poor girl, can't be put together at all, and the representatives of the World Bank in Ukraine came to the feet of both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the Ministers and the tycoons and Kola for investment there. That grass doesn't grow anymore, people, you understand. You have a free interpretation of the Budgetary System Act which has 50% historical provisions. All provisions on fiscal rules are overcome and non-applicable, and half of the final provisions are historical on salary and pension growth from 2007, 2008, 2009, 2012, 2013 etc. Dimmed, hiding behind large concepts, there is a large group – Vlahović, Pitic, Dinkic, Labus. It was all done by that NED, all the pioneers of the World Bank. Why didn't you arrest Dinkic? As much as we criticized him, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27275	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27276	Dear Presidents, honourable Prime Ministers with ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, previous speakers from my parliamentary group, authorised representative Djordje Milicevic, MPs Nedjo Jovanovic and Dejan Radenkovic have issued an SPS position, i.e. MPs' group of SPS, and have reasonedly explained that the parliamentary group will support the draft budget for 2018 and all accompanying laws on this. In the context of this little time left, I will shorten my confirmation of what is said only on a few issues -- what does the budget mean, where is Serbia today and where is Serbia going? I immediately want to say, in 2017, the government had great activities and clear policy, strong defence, excellent implementation achieved significant results both on the external-political agenda and on the internal agenda here, specifically, when it comes to the implementation of economic policy. I want to add here another result that is very important, which is that the government has done much to restore faith in Serbia, that it is believed that Serbia can, that Serbia knows, that Serbia can come out of a crisis and provide itself with such a place, not only inside, but also in international relations. As a result, Serbia is believed in the world today, not to talk about Serbia, but to talk to Serbia. Serbia has therefore become an subject in the talks, and this confidence in Serbia has been shown, among other things, we have heard here data, on all scales in Serbia's international raises, not only when it comes to credit ratings, investments, etc. It's something that's very important. When it comes to 2017, just a brief few data. A result that says a fiscal surplus has been achieved in Serbia, and for the first time since 2005, the overall and primary fiscal surplus has been achieved in Serbia. Last year, if you remember, it was achieved primarily, and this year it was both primary and total. This data and the fact that a significant reduction in public debt participation in GDP has been achieved says enough in Serbia, that fiscal consolidation measures have achieved effects and that public spending has been sufficiently reduced, while at the same time contributing to the establishment of a favourable business and investment environment and, of course, has resulted in a significant improvement of all economic flows in 2017. A few more data, a few more numbers, and the numbers are raw and they can't lie. Business growth has been achieved in Serbia, the number of employees has increased in Serbia. We're not talking mass layoffs. I'm talking about an increase in the number of employees, and I'm talking about reducing the unemployment rate. These are all the results that can't be questioned. Let me just take a quick look, when it comes to fiscal consolidation that has been successfully completed, that public finances are stabilised, we now have a situation that leads to a twist, so to speak, and this time we have a development budget for 2018. Of course, it remains the government's obligation to preserve fiscal achievements, but as soon as it gained its conditions it immediately went on to relax, and this resulted in two very important measures. One that increased the untaxable share of the profit, and what does that mean? Aid to the economy and at the same time means growth and job creation. On the other hand, a lot, as much as possible, has been increased on sound grounds for salaries and pensions. Is what's safe enough? What has been offered has been offered on sound grounds and surely the government will continue to strive to increase regularly and always on sound grounds. Very briefly, since time is running out, I only want two comments on income and expenditure. When it comes to incomes, I would like to stress that, given that they have increased by 1.9%, not counting on what I was talking about, the increase in the untaxable profit and the harmonisation of excise duties, that no tax rate has been increased. It speaks of the stability of the tax system, which I find very important, and at the same time the government has shown it will continue to do so, and I am giving it a task, an even greater aid in curbing the grey economy, because there is a big space for increasing income. Shortly quite, when it comes to expenses...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27277	Time's up, and I've extended a little. Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27278	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister and Prime Minister, I would just like to say, at the beginning, that is to quote the Prime Minister who said at some point earlier that it was a historicly important matter, and then she replied further to the MP. So it's historically important that the Prime Minister showed up today only on the second day in the Serbian Parliament, to answer the questions of lawmakers having to do with the budget, that the time of the opposition is more or less spent and that it has basically nothing to answer at this time. Also, it is historically important that we, in this draft budget, and not only the draft budget but also 30 additional laws and the bill that we should discuss tonight, so it is historicly important that citizens know that another 30 points on the agenda can come with the budget. The most historic thing is that the government of the Republic of Serbia is currently dealing with the worst mafia in the country, which is the maternity mafia. On the agenda, we also have the Financial Support Act for families with children, and in an explanation, you can find a detailed explanation of how in one calendar year, so over one year, in the amount of 10.6 billion, it is estimated that the family has damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is a little hypocritical to say in this context that the maternity families have damaged the child's budget of the Republic of Serbia, while at the same time pumping 30 billion dinars into state-owned enterprises that are thus losers that we are likely to be in the next 100 years, if this government, and hopefully not, remains in this system, or in some other company, so we have no chance of recovering them, and at the same time we are accusing the maternity parents of being responsible for the lack of money in the Republic of Serbia's budget. One important thing is the law on financial support for families with children and matters of art. 12th and 17. We've submitted the amendments. We submitted them immediately on the first day, because we also pointed out this problem on the Committee of Work, which is a shameful decision to abolish families that have children who are persons with disabilities special to the child, believing that other people's care and assistance would replace that compensation at that time. So this ministry, when it wrote the bill, couldn't replace one compensation to another, because they don't have the same use. The child's special care has another purpose, while other people's care and assistance in the case of a disabled person has the sole purpose of helping people with disabilities not to be discriminated against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27279	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27280	Dear Presidents and honourable MPs, I'd be very brief, since I don't think he deserves the ignorance that exists, the unreading and the desire to agree on anything. I would only single out the words of a wise man who said: "There are men who lie only to lie." This is about one thing they don't understand, which is that, or rather, they understand how and how fraud is done and obviously they want to tell us that there's a way that someone can cheat on the system and they can cheat on the state. We make laws according to our citizens. We wish that our mothers and those who have the right to receive compensation will receive that compensation in accordance with the law and receive at the highest possible amount the state can give them. It is certainly the idea of the law to promote the birth of children and families and we will certainly continue to, in the coming period, by a regulation that will be passed by the Government, by the measures that will be taken by the Government, to do these things and to encourage both the family and the birth of children. Thank you. (Tatyana Macura: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27281	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27282	Thank you. It's a bit degutant on your part to call us ignorant. I'll tell you the right side, even though the law is not standing in front of me right now. So it's on the page. 6, 7, 8 and 9, a detailed explanation in the light of this law, as you have stated, that maternity families are the damage to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. For that money, dear Minister, I know that you came from the Ministry of Labour, but there's also a minister who was once at the Ministry of Labour, so you're responsible for having this problem, if there's a problem at all, notice, and for those women you haven't provided enough kindergartens where you can house your children. They do not go to extended maternity leave, but because there is not enough room in kindergarten for their children to provide. So if you had entered a little deeper into the essence of this problem, you would have found that for 88m euros, as far as it is when they are translated into euro, you could have done kindergartens for all the children in Serbia's territory, except that you entered this analysis which is a crazy analysis and accused the families of being practically the maternity mafia. At the same time, the government of the Republic of Serbia, without any mud, gives 30 billion dinars on state-owned enterprises' subsidies. And they're practically under the protection of the state, while the foster parents are placed in an inappropriate position and are at the same time treated as if they were a mob. It's an embarrassing explanation you've given. Your intentions may have been good, but that doesn't stand in reason. For that money, I'm sure you could have provided kindergartens for all the kids.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27283	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27284	I'm the only thing I'm noticing here is that you understand very well how fraud is done and that you're very good at defending that fact that we need to stimulate fraud. It's not our idea to save money. The money that the state singles out for families and children will be spent on all mothers and distributed in a transparent manner, to get as much as the state can give them, and those who do not have the right not to get it and to contain any kind of crime. If you defend it, it only shows how much you have a desire to help mothers who do their job with honor and who, when they go to a pregnant woman, should receive compensation for it. Given how much support you have, it tells us how much truth you speak about everything and how much your real desire to defend this law and what it belongs to these mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27285	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27286	Thank you. I just have to add for the citizens of Serbia, because this is really quite a serious topic. The budget envisions 54.3 billion dinars for the protection of families and children, which is an increase of 4.3% or 2.2 billion dinars compared to the previous year. So we're increasing separations for this. Of these 54.3 billion, we have 32.9 billion ex post maternity benefits, 13.7 billion dinars to child benefits, 7.6 billion dinars, parental supplements and other rights for children with developmental disorders and without parental ageing. In addition, another six million dinar budget for population policy goes directly to population policy by means of other projects from other ministries. So, this is to avoid confusion, because it is a serious topic for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the absolute government proposes an increase in funds, in line with the measures of population policy, one of our most important objectives. In addition, as regards the separation of subsidies for public enterprises, someone works in these public enterprises. It would absolutely be, maybe, right now I'm not even sure, we should do a cost analysis, maybe it would be cheaper to fire all those people and not give those subsidies. Maybe not, because they'd go to the Bureau and we'd have to cover it through the NSZ and the rest of the social benefits. Is that a smart social measure? Is that what you're suggesting? That's not going to work. I'm sure this government won't work. So you can change government, this government won't without plan B to fire people from public enterprises. We solve these problems, solve these problems as we have solved "Zelezar Smederevo", where we have saved 5500 jobs, where from year to year you have been told why you give for "Zelezar Smederevo", why don't you close that, that's the cost for the citizens of Serbia, what do you care about 5500 people, what do we care about the whole of Smederevo. Well, it's families, it's thousands of families. As we resolve the restructuring of the Railways, as we have reduced in the Railways 2,500 people, but for them we have provided severances, as we have solved Galenika, as we privatised it, we have provided severances, as we solve many other public enterprises. But cut and say, okay, this is the cost of the state, you people go to the street and get along, these are also some future mothers, some fathers. I also want to conclude that this government is proposing a higher budget for the protection of families and children and is by 4.3% higher than in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27287	The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27288	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, respected members of the government, the 2018 budget is clear evidence that this government is leading a good budgetary policy. The Serbian Progressive Party believes the main objective of the budget will be to maintain macroeconomic stability, which was achieved in the previous period and to reduce public debt participation in GDP. When we look at planned revenues and expenditures, we can rightly conclude that they are realistically planned and that this budget is planning a small and sustainable deficit. This budget plans to increase revenues compared to 2017 by 7.8%, and as regards expenditure, the most significant measures on the side of expenditure are the increase in funds to increase wages and pensions. What we in SNS need to stress is that the increase in wages and pensions is planned from real sources. I will remind the citizens of Serbia of the way Serbia has been on. We've only been separated from bankruptcy for a few months. Heavy fiscal consolidation measures, which took place over the past three years, the government of Aleksandar Vukic and this government have now managed to reduce the deficit and restore Serbia to the right path. To all who want to see it clearly, it is clear that the next period opens up the possibility of new increases in wages and pensions. The important thing for Serbian citizens, apart from the increase in salaries and pensions, is certainly the funds planned for 128.3 billion investments. Therefore, we in the SNS can rightly say that today we have a budget that is developmental. The funds planned for investment will improve the lives of all citizens of Serbia, and will certainly improve the lives of the citizens of Leskovec, because of these 128 billion, as planned for investments, significant funds are also allocated for the city of Leskovac for capital projects, such as the construction of the main city collector, which is planned for 180 million dinars, for building a closed-end complex in the Leskovac district prison, 186 million were planned for the completion of the sports hall "Home Partizana", which began to be built in 2011 and which will finally be completed, to the satisfaction of all the wood-creation, 60 million dinars. Fifty-four billion are planned to invest in Serbia's infrastructure. From this part of the amount, significant funds are also planned for the construction and completion of Corridor 10 and specifically for the construction of part of the E-75 highway through the Grdelička gorge. Thanks to the construction of the highway, Grdelica-Varoš near Leskovec has been restored to Serbia's industrial map. The moment the highway to Grdelica was completed, the first investors arrived. Two investors from the Netherlands, who came to the Gredel, produce goods mainly for export and say they have been defined for the Gredel precisely because of the existence of a good highway, good connections and easy access to their factories. While the section of the Grabovnica-Grdelica highway was under construction, every day about 400 people were employed, and many of these people were from Grdelica, from the village gravitating from Grdelica, and also 50 companies as subcontractors among them were companies from Leskovec and the entire Jablanic district. The highway for citizens of Grdelica, Leskovac, the entire Jablanic and Pcinj County, means business, means investment, means better life for citizens. The funds planned for southern Serbia by the 2018 budget are evidence that this government and the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, are concerned about the even development of the entire South and the whole country. As for expenditure based on interest payments compared to 2017, they are lower by 16 billion or percentage by 12% and this field best sees the effects of fiscal policy, because interest is much lower than in previous years. The better rating of the state is proportionally reflected, of course, by private companies which are now in debt to expand their capacities under much more favourable conditions and much longer term, which will of course speed up economic growth. Another law on the agenda today, which is directly linked to the budget, which will contribute to accelerated economic growth, is certainly the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the income tax of citizens. I say, in direct connection with the budget, because for the first time, the state of Serbia is now able to help those who are starting their own business in a period that is the most difficult for beginners in business, which is the first and second years of business. The state will thus help to free beginners from tax obligations in the first year of business, i.e. up to two years. Tax relief primarily applies to young people who have just finished school. The Serbian Progressive Party believes that this very relief is a key matter if we want to speed up economic growth. It is certain that these tax reliefs would have been proposed much earlier, in order to be introduced much earlier, that Serbia's budget could have endured it. Some local self-governments in Serbia, including the town of Leskovac, give grants to start their own business, especially young people, to encourage employment. From 2013 until today, the town of Leskovac has irrevocably encouraged the launch of its own business with 180 thousand dinars, and since 2013, so far, through a local employment action plan, which, through partnership with donor programmes, has opened 350 companies. Of these 350 people who have opened their own businesses with the help of the city, 270 of them are active after the first year of business. If we look at it as a percentage, it's about 77% sustainability. With such measures applied by local self-governments with the adoption of such a bill, relating to tax relief, I believe that this percentage could go up to 100% and, of course, speed up economic growth. Finally, I want to conclude, the goal set by the government of Aleksandar Vukic in 2014 and by the government of our Prime Minister Ana Brnabic has achieved the goal she has set for herself. The crisis of public finances no longer exists and this budget is the result of hard work, effort and above all knowledge. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate Minister Vujovic and the entire government, as well as all citizens of Serbia on the good 2018 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27289	Thank you. The word is Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27290	Thank you, President. Dear Mrs. Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Brnabic today is the third day when we talk about the budget, you said by coming today that you are very happy every time you come to parliament and that today is an ideal opportunity for you to submit some report on the work of the Government. I have to tell you that you absolutely can't do it today. Today we are talking about the budget, which is the most important law. If you want to report to the citizens, to the MPs, I invite you to be here every last quarter of the month, answer the questions of the MPs. Today you have obviously come, arguments that now, in the conclusion of the debate, when we no longer have time and we cannot talk, we cannot argue with arguments, you, and from you, and from your fellow ministers, we have incredible qualifications. When you insult the MPs of the opposition, you must be aware of it, you insult the citizens who voted for us, who obliged us to speak to you here, on their behalf, that we disagree strongly with some things, that other things we suggest, and that your behavior is totally inadmissible. If, Mrs. Brnabic, today in the third day you came for some applause here in the Assembly, I must remind you that you have the wrong place. That's what the Presidency or SNS room is for. A round of applause from the citizens, not from the opposition MPs, you won't get it because today we're talking about something that is crucial to them. Today, citizens are looking at this Assembly, watching opposition MPs on the one hand, trying to make arguments about certain things in the budget that we believe to be a destructive policy that, how long it allows me to reason, and on the other hand, they are looking at the virtual state of emergency that this government has done today, by trying to stage the incredible violence that is happening here. We had a press conference, where the entire parliamentary ruling majority stood, that the citizens were under the impression that some state of emergency was being declared today. Why and for whom? Because of three, four DS MPs, who you don't want to shut up. So this budget is unfair. The government continues to extend non-transparent subsidies by kidnapping pensioners, so to God, it brings them back, with the shameful arguments we've heard, that pensioners have voluntarily sacrificed themselves, no one has asked them. The financial consolidation, which has become an ideology more important to you than life, does not finance or manage to build a government, but citizens. Citizens also financed those rare private companies that finance the budget. Citizens, not Government. Citizens, despite the government, are the same citizens that you, particularly the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, are angry with declaring them unemployed, sloths who are only sleeping. Citizens, not the Government, because the priority of this government is party employment, a continuing ban on employment for which last year Minister Vujovic, answers to me, told me that the Minister of State Administration, Mrs Brnabic, is responsible, and that I can ask her why she is late for not doing any analysis and you extend the ban on employment to which citizens pay your incompetence, because there is no way for the best, there is a chance only for members of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27291	Thanks, time. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27292	I thank you, President. I'm advertising an article. 27, 108, 109, bearing in mind that there has been the harshest insult of this parliament again. I think the insult is directed to both you and all of us by the MPs and the citizens of Serbia. Without any honor, without any shame to say that something has been staged, to say that something has been invented, along with the stenographic notes which in an unequivocal way indicate that one boast, one inscrupulousness, one indecency, one indignity, one indignity, one indignity, one indignity, one indignity, one indignity, one indignity that MPs are now already trying to create from this parliament. Do we have to let that happen, Mr. President? I don't think so. And this, as well as what Mr Bozovic did, deserves not only a conviction, but also a warning. Because the people's letter that shows now, in one way that is absolutely immoral, that something was done that was invented, that you staged something, I don't think it can really be tolerated anymore. Every tolerance threshold at this time is exceeded and any excess must be sanctioned in the future. What is now being done, what is now happening, is no longer tolerable by the Assembly. People can't watch this anymore. This is a humiliation to the citizens of Serbia. This is something we cannot allow, because we are representatives of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27293	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27294	Thank you, President. Replication to the mention of the Serbian Progressive Party. Serbian citizens have the opportunity to watch today, have opportunities to see immoral, violent behaviour of those who have just led to Serbia's having to pay their devastating debts to the policy they have led to 2012. The sloths are the ones who took out loans to pay for pensions and eat the future of our children, perhaps not theirs, but our children and all the children who live in Serbia. It's a shame to hear today's budget debate in a completely deviating way. I would ask you, the chairman, that indeed whenever you hear representatives of the rest of the opposition return the debate to the debate on the budget. Because when you don't have enough arguments, then you reach for violence. We will simply not allow it as a ruling majority, and I also believe that the Serbian government supports such a majority policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27295	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. I apologize for the second time, Ljiljana Malusic. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27296	Thus, Article 104 states: “If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name, last name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers shall have the right to replication. ” I am part of a parliamentary group that has been spoken of in the previous two speeches of colleagues from other parliamentary groups, and is being spoken and accused of the DS parliamentary group of violence in this assembly. You remember well, and you, too, were present, in which the work of this congregation began. Professor Dragoljub Micunović, 87 years old, the oldest MP is...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27297	MP, the breach of the Rules of Procedure can be done directly, not from the beginning of Dragoljub Micunovic's career.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27298	I want to remind you, allow me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27299	Therefore, do not abuse the Rules of Procedure and enter the replica now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27300	I do not abuse the Rules of Procedure, but I am talking about violence in parliament and the reasons why we have such an atmosphere in Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27301	We heard about Balša Bozovic. I cannot allow you to abuse the Rules of Procedure here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27302	... in an attempt to avoid such an atmosphere, pushing for it, and you've never had violence on this side. Say one time if you heard any word that was offensive. I'm trying to remind you of the way we've come to an atmosphere like this and how... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27303	Thank you very much, MP. That's not in line with Article 104, what you're saying. I understand that you must in public justify the procedure of MP Balša Bozovic. (Balsa Bozovic: What procedure? ) It is terrible that Balsa Bozovic, as an MP, is wondering what procedure. We're moving on, but I'm obliged to say that what you said, that threat, it wasn't just me. Ministers who were in the O.R. can testify to that. This may also be witnessed by the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretary-General, the person to whom you have directed, and this is the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the other vice-president... I ask Alexander Jerkov to be brought up and not throw it away once. As co-ordinator of the Women's Parliamentary Network, I think the Women's Parliamentary Network has experienced a debacle of your presidency. (The People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov throws out of place. ) I am talking about the fact that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was not in accordance with Article 104, that it was not in parliament, but in parliament it was being debated and treated politely. Balsa Bozovic said he threatened to make a threat and that was heard by the public of Serbia, and that was heard by all the MPs here who were solidarity with the vice president, who said – enough language of violence, and now we have gone from verbal to concrete violence. And you're just defending thugs who come in, harass and beat up women, and now you're going to threaten the vice presidents. You will not cover with cynicism what you have begun to do here, which is the introduction of violence into Serbia's parliament. There's Alexander Jerkov, what he knows, it's just to throw away. It is a reflection of a lady and a woman who represents the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who voted for just that person. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. I'm sorry, I hope the third time you're being dropped by the Democratic Party's MPs won't interrupt. I really apologize to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27304	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected members of the government, the government successfully implemented fiscal consolidation and stabilisation of public finances, reduced public debt, improved the economic environment, secured a high rate of economic growth, raised living standards. Thanks to fiscal consolidation, there will be an increase in salaries and pensions from 1 January 2018: teachers, teachers, prosecutors, courts, military, police, doctors, nurses and others. Severe fiscal policy measures have led to economic recovery and economic recovery. As a result, there have been new investments. 60 factories were opened and hundreds of thousands were employed. In 2008, gentlemen across the street or DOS authorities fired 400,000 people. They fire, and we hire. Unemployment was 27% in 2008 and 11% in 2017. What we do thanks to the good leadership of this country, this country, thanks to these experts who are experiencing criticism here all day, and never in parliament has the government been this strong. Bravo! What's going on? We build, we finish Corridor 10 that's been built for 20 years, we build Corridor 11, we build fast tracks. We opened 10,000 construction sites in Serbia, and only in Belgrade over 1,200 construction sites. It's a full industry. They're doing all the work. At the rate of world organisations, we are currently the tenth place in the world at the speed of issuing building permits. What does that mean? It means a good country to invest. We are the factor of stability in the Balkans and the best country in terms of investment. Then, "Belgrade on the Water" is built from a swamp that was a snakefish, where no one could ever go, to set foot there, and now it is the most exclusive neighborhood in the Balkans. Good for the government! Serbia's rating on the Duing Business List was repaired from 92th to 44th. Ten EU countries are behind us. I would especially highlight the state project on building apartments for young couples, for scientists, for members of the police, for members of the army. Bravo! That is how youth in Serbia is maintained. From 2000 to 2012, I think 10% of the young population has gone, all of them experts. So where do they work when nothing in Serbia has worked? They're naked. During their reign, 585 companies, companies, were shut down, nakeded those companies, and brought back to the state. You're a disgrace. What's very important is to point out that next year's projection of surpluses is 90 billion dinars, and the deficit is only 29 billion. Bravo! Now I'd like to talk about the budget of the city of Belgrade. They honor us here that the budget of the city of Belgrade, which we found in 2013, was 400m euros. Well, it won't be. The debt was a billion and 187,000 dinars. They did not include public companies' debts, public utility companies, nor did they include debts to the unpaid socially vulnerable population. It's these families, they weren't paid. And we don't have any debts at this point, we covered all the debts. We cut the debt by 500 million euros. Bravo for the Government of the Republic of Serbia! That's how it works. It's a responsible policy. More than 536 roads have been paved in Belgrade. In 2016, only 66,000 people were employed in Belgrade. Bravo! Arranged parks, sidewalks, open beautiful Square of Slavi, whether they knew or could not, there was just no money for it. We've got money for that, too. Now Slavia looks like a square in Barcelona. So we're slowly starting to look like world centres, like magnificent centers. The ‘Ikea’ store was opened. Please, slowly but foreign investors must be coming. I think people sitting across the street should know what that means. It was renovated Slavi Square, bravo. I'm sure it's good for the government of the Republic of Serbia. A fountain was built on Slavija, an open museum. As far as culture is concerned, they've closed everything alive, and we're opening it. We opened the Museum of Contemporary Art. The National Museum is about to be completed. Second, a gift to the pensioners. We've done senior cards for all of Belgrade. All pensioners have a discount of 10 to 50%, in all the services they are designated for them. Bravo! Also, new services were introduced into the social security system, which they never did. A personal child escort service, a personal assistant service, opened six new retirement clubs. That's how it works. It is the responsible policy of the SNS and its coalition partners. The city of Belgrade has taken care of 172 families of internally displaced persons from the budget, it should be stressed, and the 171 Roma family. I'd just like to say for a few more seconds, because there are a lot more speakers for my community from which I come, the municipality of Vozdovac. When we arrived in 2010, we didn't even have a general urban plan, we were building houses in the middle of the road, and today we came up with a general urban plan. Finally, the village of Ripanj, one of the largest villages in Serbia, received water. We did, please, the plumbing and sewerage, from 2010 to 2017, they didn't do it back 60 years. Only 10% of the people had water. You're a disgrace. We built collectors. We make schools, kindergartens, two schools were built, video surveillance, fenced schools, kindergartens, renovated kindergartens. Bravo! I don't have any more time, and I'd like to talk. That's how the government is responsible. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of all proposals for these laws in Dan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27305	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27306	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister Mrs Brnabic, respected ministers, government members, colleagues and fellow MPs, we from the SNS will vote for the development budget for 2018, as well as for the accompanying laws on today's agenda. In my further presentation, I will remain at the amendments and additions of the Labour Act aimed at eliminating the abuses recorded in the previous period, and most often by employers. The amendments and additions to the Labour Act achieve better protection of workers' rights, especially in the light of the fact that the violation of labour rights usually ends with the launch of labour disputes before the court, which additionally burdens our judicial system. The intention of these amendments and the addition of the Labour Act is to ensure that the majority of antagonism between the employer and the workers is reduced and depreciated, so that workers' rights are better protected and that litigation is avoided. The application of employees by the competent PIO fund is an employer's obligation. However, the obligation has been very often avoided and ways of playing the law have been found, and this further resulted in a large number of black-based workers. These amendments and additions to the law exclude such possibility practically because it is the employer's obligation to report an employee to the PIO fund a day earlier before they start working. In line with this proposal and the relevant PIO Fund, it will adapt its way of doing the employee’s application. Also, different interpretations in the delivery of warnings on the existence of a reason for the cancellation of the labour contract have imposed the need to prescribe that warnings are delivered in the same way as solutions which decide on the rights and obligations of employees, which is regulated in detail by the Labour Act. The fact is that there are two types of warnings, and this warning is due to the failure of the results of the work and warning due to violations of the work discipline or working conditions, and giving each warning by the employer results either in fines or in the termination of the work contract, so it is a good thing that the law will be as clear and precise as possible. And finally, we from the SNS want to express our great satisfaction that the works on the construction and equipment of the Clinical Centre in Nis have ended, so that the opening will be 17 December 2017, which in the end and in direct connection with the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the implemented fiscal consolidation measures because, of course, if it were not for all of this, such a large and significant investment would not be possible to end up in the town of Nis. Thanks to the tenacity, maximum engagement and maximum commitment of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, the government, Minister Loncar with associates, the quality of life of Nis city residents, as well as all other southern Serbian cities will significantly improve. At the site of the former excise and wetland area, a magnificent Clinical Center was built, in line with the most modern standards regarding its technological, infrastructure and logistics equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27307	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27308	Thank you, President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing very important laws, laws concerning primarily the quality of life of Serbian citizens. This is a good opportunity to look back at all the good that has been done in the past few years and, of course, to remind ourselves of what Serbia is like, and what Serbia is today, but also the opportunity to talk about plans for 2018, but not just for 2018, because given the results of this government and what our budget system is today and how we have managed to stop Serbia's collapse and bankruptcy, we can talk freely about the next few decades. There's a hard time behind us. You will agree that we have shown that in the previous period, the only policy by Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia we have managed to stop Serbia from being on a bad path until 2012 and to save it from a safe bankruptcy. Serbia, thanks to responsible policy, is well-leaded policy by Mr. Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is saved from safe bankruptcy, but has become a healthy, well-organised and modern state. Just five years ago, so we were on a very bad path, and all of this thanks to the irresponsible, poorly-leaded Dosmanian politics, which is exactly what they've been up to all day showing us and showing their anxiety because they don't have results behind them. They have only poorly-led policies, many fired workers across Serbia, closed factories and all bad things, and today, means they show violence in this assembly and want to show citizens a completely different picture, but the election citizens show them that they have long read them that they no longer want them on the political scene of Serbia. What I want to add is that I come from the Rasin County and I am really proud of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the current President of the Republic of Mr. Vukic, because he helped my hometown of Kruševac to be, not that devastated area left by the Dossmanian Yellow Authority in 2012, but to invest in Kruševac, to make new investors and to build up and work hard. In fact, a few days ago, Mr. Minister of Industry, Mr. Knezevic opened a new facility, namely the plant at the Kruševac oil factory and will not employ new workers, but the quality of life both Kruševljan and the workers themselves will be much better. What I would add, in Kruševec, not only was all that needed to be restored, which was neglected from 2000 to 2012. I will remind Kruševac, in some 1990s, was fourth in the old Yugoslavia, and in 2012, he reached the very top of the disaster, so that only the citizens recognized Mr. Vukic's SNS policy saved us from the disaster that was meant to hit us. In 2016, this government and Mr. Vukic signed a contract with German investors Cromberg and Schumbert and a large factory is being built in Kruševec and will employ more than 2.5 000 workers, which is indeed commendable, given that this is exactly the very yellow company that has left us many, many workers on the streets. I must also point out that in the campaign for presidential elections, this particular Dosmanian elite tried to present that there was none of this Cromberg factory, Schubert, published various articles, wrote in newspapers, those yellow sheets that were only subscribed to them, wrote that there was none of it, and here we are witnessing that today many workers are in training both in Macedonia and Romania, which means once again they are only trying to lead the citizens astray, but the citizens are not naive and are precisely showing them that they no longer believe their lies. I would add that the contracts were signed in Krusevec thanks to the government with Lidla and Nepi, then set the foundation for building Serbia's first bioenergy. Otherwise, it is worth over 26m euros and will, of course, employ over 200 new workers. What I would add is that on 14 October this year, on the day of the government of the Republic of Serbia's meeting in Krusevec, the project of wastewater and waste water treatment was implemented, which is the value of the project over 24m euros and, of course, the completion of the work envisaged by the end of 2018, and this will indeed solve a major problem of wastewater in the territory of my city. What I would add is that the Ministry of Education is taking care of my place and my district, and so is Kruševac and the future university center. The Faculty of Agriculture in Kruševec opened in early 2017. There is indeed a lot I could talk about by tomorrow, which is only done in my city, but it has been done throughout Serbia, and that is all it is a confirmation that citizens trust SNS and Mr. Vukic, and this government, and the elections clearly show with the support they provide. I thank you, and we will discuss more in the course of the debate on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27309	Marijan Risticevic, you have one minute and 29 minutes, you want to use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27310	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course as president of the NSS, I will support this budget, a team before progress in the agricultural budget is evident. Therefore, 2.6 billion more than the previous year stands out, with 145m euros more than in 2004 and 2005, and 100m euros and 105m euros being allocated to subsidies and incentives in agriculture compared to 2010 and 2011. In total, 34.3 billion are allocated for subsidies in agriculture, and just to remind myself, in 2012, by projection, the former regime's parties, which are reportedly proud of some of their subsidies, have allocated 19 commas some billions, or 16 billion less for agriculture and farmers, which is around 140m euros and some million euros. And they want to represent themselves as the great protectors of farmers and agriculture, and the figures and figures themselves indicate that they were not for the village and agriculture, but they were against the village and agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27311	The word has Dragomir Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27312	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow citizens who follow our session through TV screen, the budget is balanced. And in this budget, you can't practically find as many flaws as you've done before, in earlier cases. Anything to look at, if we take what is most important to the citizens of Serbia, which is family, they are protected by this budget, maximum compared to the inflow of funds in the 2018 budget. If we take education, normally, that was the case, and as we heard from Minister Dusan Vujovic, who is responsible for finance, then, education has practically received the largest possible part of the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget, which is very commendable and gives hope that it will be the basis for Serbia's citizens, which is the result, normally within the longer term. There are often controversy about pensions, about the disabled, so logically no one is satisfied with that pension height, neither is Serbian President, Mr Alexander Vukic, nor is the Prime Minister, nor we, but this is the possibility of the present, present and I think it is a good thing that has shown great understanding and found ways to gradually, slowly, but surely return to the level that was, and I am deeply convinced that pensions will be far greater with an increase in the gross product of the Republic of Serbia. The army, we also heard the Minister of Military, Mr. Alexander Vulin, is professionalized, professionally performing his duties. I would disagree with the fact that many military faces are leaving the army because they are dissatisfied with the conditions. It's logical that the older ones leave and the younger ones come. So I fully support the budget for our army and also for the police. Without highly sophisticated equipment and without training, our police can't carry out the obligations they face. I can only say, very commendable to express myself about the police of the Republic of Serbia, they are doing an extraordinary job. Well, we're one of the few countries not only in Europe in the world, where you can only get to the airport in front of the plane itself to control. So good for the police, too. Health care, day by day, it's getting better. It used to wait really long for both magnetic resonance and other reviews, thanks to this government's policy, thanks to Minister Loncar's policy, it is being repaired from day to day, deadlines are getting shorter and shorter, and the service is increasingly quality and quality. I'd only have one question for the government, actually it would be more my recommendation in one simple fear. When it comes to hiring young people and getting to work at a ministry where they are received for a certain period of time or are there for a certain period of time. I hear that there are, therefore, real ones, it seems to be a possibility, because it extends to another year to restrict public service admissions. I only have one question and one fear. Well, we'll go well with those of the highest quality who can't wait and I'd ask that government, Prime Minister and all ministers to understand that maybe from January 1, 2018, regardless of the IMF and the World Bank's request, we'll allow for the unspecified, high-level personnel we need, and Serbia has them. Normally, MPs of the Serbian Force Movement Bogoljub Karic will support this budget. Good luck. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27313	The word is Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27314	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, I would very much like you to be in the seat of MPs these days and to receive the draft budget law for 2018, on 700 pages and to read it in a few days from Saturday until today, analyze and prepare for an argument with you, and you are doing this backwards for months with a very large expert team. But that's our destiny, we got this together with 30 other legislative proposals, and as you see all the time that's scheduled for a principle debate, we'll spend just on the draft budget bill for 2018, and the other 30 draft laws will remain that no word will be spoken, and not a word less important than this law. We hope that at least next year we will be respected and that it will change. As far as the 2018 draft budget is concerned, here are some short analyses. First, whether it's realistically planned, whether it's sustainable, we can't know it now. This is just a plan, these are just the wishes of budgetary users, and whether it is feasible, we will know if and when and when we are here in the assembly procedure we have discussed how some budget for a financial year has been realized. Only then can we talk about whether we were balanced, whether we were real and how we spent money. Let's not forget, we've been arguing for three days, we don't spend here, or we don't plan on spending the money we brought into our pockets. We plan here to spend the money of our businessmen and our citizens. It's normal to differ in the way we see that spending. Secondly, as the biggest success, the government is back three years ago a budget surplus, fiscal consolidation, and when it is illustrated by the figures, it looks very nice and can be hidden behind it that in the past three years, it has been both economic and political reforms in Serbia. But what did we do? How did we achieve this surplus and this fiscal consolidation? Everyone knows that we've cut salaries and pensions, that we've partly reduced the number of public administration employees, that we've reduced the amount of capital investment, there's 94 billion dinars, and unfortunately, we haven't spent it, half of it hasn't been spent, and then we've created a budget space and some fiscal space, to see what we're going to do with it now. Since we promised, i.e. You promised to pay back your salaries and pensions as soon as the budget opportunities were created, we now propose to you, Mr. Minister, to raise our salaries and pensions, selectively, some five, and some 10%, and some nothing. We're increasing capital investments. What are we actually doing? That's what we say in the Serbian people -- take, give. What we've been taking for three years, we're now trying to get back through our promise. I welcome an increase in capital investment by over 30%, to 120 billion this year. For this growth, from this rate of GDP growth of 1.66, you jump to 3.5%, it's not enough to raise wages and pensions. It's a model that's already seen economically, that we're going to increase demand for products by making bigger profits. The question is, who's gonna buy this stuff? I'm afraid we're going to increase imports and have an external trade deficit through imports, so we're just going to be in trouble. As an opposition MP, I once again welcome the amount of capital investment. Since I come from one municipality, relatively small municipalities, which is Svilajnac, I also welcome some investments that were in the fields of education and health care, we have restored schools, some homes of health. The other day it was restored completely to the House of Health in Svilajnc, of course, in collaboration with the Office for Public Investments, but it was because the municipality of Svilajnac had great projects. That's where you failed as a government, because you didn't have projects and half the capital investments for last year you didn't spend. Ministers, the problem remains, we have no serious sectoral analysis to fire from the state service.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27315	Thank you, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27316	Therefore, we will remain, unfortunately, presidents, I must say, a law on the ban on employment, which and how it will affect the quality of services in health, education and particularly social protection. We don't have professional personnel for all these sectors.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27317	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Next, Srdian Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27318	So, from 2001 to today, all the budgets are probably the same and all the discussions on the budgets and on the same pattern were made because financial flows in Serbia dictated by the IMF and the World Bank. That's right this year, and that's what happened last year. I'm someone who's been involved in the budget debate for the second time. I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, you who are the most responsible for this budget and who are probably the number of one finance in the government, because you are also the most directly trusted man to Alexander Vukic, and the World Bank, you know what this farce about today's debate on the whole agenda, and this draft budget itself? I'm going to have to use one metaphor that I've only heard of, and you probably know it, because then you're in Belgrade, you're a younger man, what it looks like to us. The end of the 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s in Belgrade, in front of the Moscow hotel, a group of Niksicans, had one joke – Sarah, gift, mara, so where is the ball. So they managed to do a large number of Belgrade citizens and to be widely known as the most successful matchmakers. So to us today, the IMF and World Bank matches and sells us the cheapest jokes. I can only imagine how much matches you and the IMF and the World Bank are, when again as last year we have 12 billion dinars here subsidising foreign companies that, as a flow boiler, only pass through Serbia, have no use for the national economy of Serbia. People work here for about 200 euros, they get 12 billion only this year and after a few years they leave. You use it exclusively for statistics, so you can raise additional loans, so we have eight and a half billion new debts this year, that is, with this budget planned. Ludi, can you charge less than eight and a half billion? And last year so many this year? What's gonna stay after you? What do you say? Someone just said that this budget takes care of the family. This budget takes care of everyone except the citizens of Serbia and the family. Isolates for the family are 0.4% of gross national income. Why don't we look up to Hungary where 4% are. That's why we have a case that in Serbia last year the least babies since World War I were born to this day, so we have a case of more deaths than more born record, and growing from year to year. Why are more and more young people leaving the country? Because total singleings for young people, for culture, for science, for education, for less than segregation for migrants, are 10m euros for migrants, as one member of the ruling majority said -- well, on migrants we're going to build the future, right? Do you need them? That's what you said at the board meeting. I'll remind you. What's all the money being spent on? Forty-fifty million dinars to NGOs from the Justice Ministry's budget, the mob of prosecutors and the society of judges, and 88% do not believe in the judiciary they are doing. And we give these people 450 million. They have a worse attitude towards justice, worse trust than the citizens of Serbia. Two hundred and sixty million "The Official Messenger" for whom is Krleto Twittering? That must have been Rasim Ljajic's handing out that 260 million, as he likes to go to "The Official Messenger". What's next? You say you have a 7% budget growth, and you've raised the government's budget by 47%. That's how you look at expenses. Agriculture. Well, you're still smaller under the law of the prescribed percentage that you're supposed to give to agriculture. When will you have and when will you obey the law? The law prescribes 5%, as Vojvodina is prescribed, but for agriculture you do not respect that part, and Serbia is a agricultural country, we all say it all the time, and that this is Serbia's development chance, and you treat agriculture that way. How do you treat workers? Where, say, an item for the 82,500 people who have sued are looking for what they've earned from their salaries, connecting their employment. They worked in social enterprises. You allow them to fight the state by verdicts and try to charge instead of separate them from the budget and get rid of those workers. Nine hundred and a few billion, so over 80% of the tax-filled budget, and the largest citizen-full of spending taxes, taxes to various other citizens. We couldn't have any more agenda points today, because you're changing some of the laws in the field of labour legislation. To devote ourselves to those same workers who are filling your budget. Those same citizens who are filling your budget, but we put it all in one piece of the agenda. How do you take care of the workers? It's a picture and an opportunity. You only care about foreign companies and statistics and figures, not citizens. Not to mention, there isn't, say, a letter in the budget to pay off the diaries of the people who've been looking for the defence of the country since 1999. You give 30 billion as a grant to state-owned enterprises, public enterprises that are in trouble. No one tells you to fire those people. Here, I'd like to tell you why no director has been arrested. Why isn't one of the directors responsible for his assets for bad business? Well, one Bajatovic, one Spaskovski, how many years are they headed by "Srbijagas" and RTB Bora, one Mira Petrovic, when will these people respond? That we have to give 30 billion each year, that we touch and there's no responsibility. I think it's a problem that he doesn't have any responsibility. Thirty billion of us are out of the budget and nobody's out of it. Another law we have to look back on that we're adopting. Of course, the law on bankruptcy, which is extremely important, because the situation in Serbia seems to be in bankruptcy. Unfortunately, this is our economy, not only because of your merit, but 17 years of continuity and 17 years of the same policy. We also have a law on the prevention of money laundering and the fight against terrorism. Of course, we won't be able to talk about him either. I have to tell you this, it's a good thing to pass a new law, unfortunately we won't talk about it, but Deverie, here, for a year they've been saying that Serbia has been for 10, 12 years, that the largest economic branch is money laundering. One Darko Saric who washed here billions in this country, where all political parties cooperated with his people, all banks collaborated with his people, the most successful businessmen collaborated with his people, and no one is responsible for money laundering except Darko Saric. How is that possible? What kind of law is that? When will be the turn of Sava Terzic, Nenad Kovac, Bogdan Rodic, directors of all banks in Serbia, when various state officials who worked will come. He is not the only Branko Lazarevic and Nikola Dimitrijevic. Well, please, they at least worked with Darko Saric. What about thirty-one points of the agenda? Just a farce, just a fake, and a whole policy of the ruling majority, here's six full years of how you rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27319	National MP Mira Petrovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27320	The Messenger called me. When a Mira Petrovic will answer, I wonder, why should I answer? I run one of the best, most successful public enterprises in Serbia. We're not gonna finish this year, now we get over two and a half billion, last year we had three and something, 15 thousand employees who get paid regularly, we get a payout out of profits, we've paid the budget of two billion and four hundred, I don't understand how you get the courage to say something like that? Why would you call me someone 38 years old? I've only got good results behind everything. I've done more for the Post Office of Serbia in the past few days than the directors in 15 years before me. I'm not just telling you about it, it's things that are within the company. How dare you tell me something like that? Why would I do that? Shame on you, indeed! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27321	The word is Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27322	You show all your care for women and mothers by turning your hands on women, hitting them and insulting them. So you teach our children to fight violence to take care of their mothers and women and to take care of their families in the future or to solve things the way you handle them. This government won't let that happen. This government will not allow you to work in this way and thus educate and educate our children. You're suggesting, as far as I remember, you're setting up a ministry, that's what you said about taking care of the family. You're thinking about how and how the money this government spends on wages. This is how you think about caring and some people being employees, who will demagogogoggy about taking care of families and how Serbia can deal with Natalie. This government offers a solution, not like you, if you'd read the law carefully then you'd know. Obviously, you haven't read the law, obviously, and you're showing it, first of all, rudeness, because you come here, you criticize the law, and you haven't even read it. If you had read it, you would know that there is a government's intention to deal with it and to go from one minus to plus in Serbia and that this government takes care of families and mothers and wants all the money it singles out and comes into the right hands. Our president, while he was still prime minister, I think he told you while he was here to make your country disappear in 10 hours. I think he went too far to disappear long before and that your policy is at the level of a 10-year-old child. I think you need a lot more to learn, learn from this government as well as how it behaves, and I'll tell you just a few things. In 2007, the U.S. The government has singled out for the family and children 261m euros. Today, it stands out 457m euros. This government hired 67,900 people in a year. This government has managed to reduce unemployment to 12% from 26%. This government has results and such results will also show after the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27323	The word has a People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27324	Of course, instead of arguments, we hear the constructions of the thesis twisting in the flat and false accusations, but I would remind you, Mr. Minister, that what we propose already exists in practice. Here, our northern neighbour Hungary has achieved extraordinary results. They, I repeat, single out 4% of gross national income for the family. Let's just look at ourselves, not what Dvori says, let's look at what neighbouring Hungary is doing and let the ruling majority look at, say, the results. Catalin Novak is called a person in the government of Hungary who is in charge of implementing the measure of family policy. What the Government of the Republic of Hungary did and what results Viktor Orban managed to achieve in the same period of time. Practically, as he is in power, so is this government, as you say, or SNS. That's what we're saying, because the problem of the population, i.e. population policy and family in Serbia, is far greater than any government and any parliamentary majority or any assembly assembly, and that has to be the number one issue in society and the social problem, and so we have to understand it. I give you criticism on our part, believing that you pay insufficient attention to it because the separations you give are smaller than the separations, for example. for migrants, for the Ministry of Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who should, for example, be exactly the ministry, for example. to deal with the family. We encourage you to stand out more in that direction. How do we treat our family? We presented our measures to make it easier to obtain an apartment, to give credits that would not be burdened with interest, to introduce tax and tax policies, to introduce tax incentives for couples when they get married, to families with multiple children. They're not even flat-rate, but concrete and precise measures, Mr. Djordjevic, and your accusations are that you're saying that women on maternity leave abuse and damage to the budget. Well, here, one Canada raised maternity leave to 18 months. I've got... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27325	Thank you. Time. The word is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in yesterday's address, I explained in detail how much this government's position is to co-ordinate and integratedly lead the most important policy. I wouldn't analyze delusions or tendencies today. First, it's been a long time. Secondly, we'll have time for amendments to discuss it. I would like to remind you that Hungary, which has been apostrophe here, has been leading for 10 years, and much longer than that, the most intelligent family-oriented policy. We started organized at the government level to guide her from the moment the current president, then prime minister, estimated that one segment of the government must have this integrated role in the government, and yesterday I cited how much, and only a part of it, is focused on the most innovative policy through the activities of other ministries and government. I would also like to say that countries that do not have the financial problems that we have show that financial support for parents is not the most important, because the most important probably Scandinavian countries would not have such bad demographic indicators as they do. Therefore, we need to look a little bit at those other measures that mean harmonising work and parenting, which are incomparably more knowledge of reproductive health, which means supporting motherhood through the help of motherhood. You know, that woman who's still traditionally often burdened, and you're too much of advocating to tradition, traditional family obligations, and she's ambitious because she's educated, she needs to be at least the mother her mother was. Therefore, she has one sense of responsibility, and we must now relieve her of the fear that someone will be violent toward her. We just need to relieve her of fear that someone who is physically stronger will wait for her and threaten her. So we have to talk a little bit here in this home about the essential issues that will encourage women to more often commit to the otherwise sovereign right of a woman to decide to give birth. If it were all about money, then probably the impulses that are being sent to us would look a little different. There are those who have a lot of money, but they won't understand the problem of the innovative policy in the right way. Serbia will certainly have a better demographic future. Yesterday we talked about experts saying that the unit has been measuring in the intelligence policy for 10 years. He's deliberately trying to get the most innovative policy into day-to-day policy thinking and, of course, it's not going to go hand in hand, because this government really has an extraordinary sensitivity to the issues that you're apostropheing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27327	Thank you, Minister Djukic Dejanovic. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27328	I had to answer that, because you praised what was going on in Hungary, to get results. I'll only tell you three things, since I talked to their minister, what they did to solve some of these problems. I have to say, the thing they did for all those who finish medical school in the Hungarian state, because it's as free as we are, that when they finish college, in five years after college, if the needs of the state to stay here, they can't leave the country, they have to respond and work. That's the measure they've taken. The other thing they did, because of everything that's going on with us and everyone, they put all the public procurement in the field of health care under secret procurement for reasons to speed them up and not have a lot of complaints and to solve the problem. Imagine if we took it to our health care and said that public procurement is a secret or should we say - free schooling, can't you leave? The third thing that is very interesting and that citizens should know, everywhere they went to public private partnerships and where they invested with privates in health care, they break it all up and they bring it back to state health. These are things that the citizens of Serbia need to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27329	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27330	Just for a moment, let me look back on that, and I'm glad that you're changing politics and that you're setting an example for an EU country as a good example. That means you're going in some positive direction. I'm going to give you another example, which is that Russia has succeeded since 2006 from a negative natural age of 700,000 to a plus. And it can be a good example for us and perhaps an example of how Serbia should act, but believe me, this government is working as a team. This government has a plan how and how to deal with it. It will show time, and I invite you to study and watch.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27331	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27332	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the most important law of the year, and we've heard all sorts of arguments. In particular, I've got this last debate of opposition MPs cut up somewhere. For the sake of the public of Serbia, I need to confirm some of the things he said, and I have some other ways to clarify to make it more clear to the citizens what this is really about. They're using some phrases that are amazing for this distinguished home. They say this is all, as they say, farce and fake, and I'd say it's on the side of the opposition, first of all, or fake or elementary ignorance of things we're talking about today. Like you said, last year was the same thing. Yes, I agree with a respected colleague. Last year was the same thing. We were planning a budget for 2017. The government has come up with a plan. As I recall, 1093 billion revenue and now you have a much better result than that plan we approved here last year. You have 60 billion more tax revenues, and you have 17 billion less transfers. Yeah, it was like that last year, and here's the result of last year's work. When we talk about taking care of children and family, I congratulate you, Minister Djordjevic, on improving this system, above all, on the Law on financial support for the family with children. It is important for the citizens of Serbia to say that this system is somewhat more regulated now. Abuses have been prevented. The maximum earnings during maternity leave can be three average salaries in Serbia. We know there's been a lot of abuse in that part. Money is paid directly from the ministry to the user, that is, to the maternity care and that is some news. We avoided unconscious employers, because very often the employer of money that refunds from the ministry doesn't pay off the end-user. It is also good that the compensation can be paid to the fathers if the mothers are foreign citizens, but in the end, the mothers who are foreign citizens, and they have a permanent stay in Serbia, can use this right, because, my God, we know that more and more married marriages with foreign citizens are coming. When we talk about that 450 million, a respected colleague said earlier about caring about migrants, whether it's a fake or it's ignorance, I'd say first of all it's ignorance. It's about money that the government, that is, the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, provides for accommodation, first of all, our refugees from the former Yugoslavia, because it's clear that the Refugees Act defines who refugees are in this country. These are primarily persons from the former Yugoslavia's space, and it is good that the government is forecasting that amount of funds this year. In fact, this year in Subotica, I know that somewhere in early 2018 we will provide 60 families from that part of the funds. Last year we heard criticism of everything we're doing right now. There, about, that's what the last speaker in the opposition made. In fact, since we have increased revenues this year by 60 billion, when it comes to tax revenues, reduced transfers by 17 billion, it gives us some ground for budget planning for 2018, taking into account all that the unemployment rate has been reduced, that the pay gap in the public and private sectors has been reduced, that we have an increase in exports and so we come to the 2018 budget. I'm going to say a little bit about him. There is no big difference when some average Serbian host plans revenues and expenditures for this year from the government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, this year's revenue of 1178 billion, last year 1093, i.e. In 2017, 2016, 997 billion. A clear difference in income increases is, above all, the result of the responsible, to say, tax policies and otherwise responsibilities that have characterized all governments since 2014, from the one taken over by Aleksandar Vukic, to this day and today led by Prime Minister Brnabic. As far as expenditure is concerned, we can see that 128 billion are provided for capital investments, and on the other hand, the tax burden on the economy is reduced and it is clear that the budget is in itself a developmental one and that we are coming into a situation that we need proper projects so that we can realise that money and it is no longer a lack of funds. What is significant in this Article of the 5th Law, I also noticed the strengthening of the materially difficult capacities of the Ministry of Interior, the purchase of vehicles. He has the party's president, the one who builds buildings in the pasture, the ambition to be interior minister, I guess his ambition is to destroy the MUP as he destroyed Serbia's Army in some previous period. Of course, thank God that's not gonna happen. Before that, he has to win the election. And, I congratulate Minister Stefanovic on improving the conditions for the work of members of the interior ministry. It's important, I see, and rebuilding bridges on Drina. This is important because of the link to ours, to say the citizens on the other side of Drina, because a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia live in Republika Srpska. That's what cares about the citizens of Serbia on the other side of Drina. The highway is built from Surcin to Obrenovac. It is a connection to that LJig – Preljina, again a slightly better connection with Western Serbia and the south of Republika Srpska. But what is particularly important to me is that these capital investments provide for 800 million dinars to continue the construction of the Ipilon Kraks in Subotica. He knows Subotica and knows Serbia how much peripetia and malversion has been around the unfortunate "Ipsylon Legs" in recent decades. Here, thank God, thanks to the government of Alexander Vukic and the continuity that he holds with these governments, we slowly bring this job to an end and we see the end of these works on the "Ipsylon Leg". It means a lot to Saturday. There's also 67 million to rebuild the stadium in Subotica. Let me say, as citizens of Subotica, we must be satisfied, so we will certainly support this as MPs. Enough of what I could still talk about this budget, of course, saving time, I'll stop there. I'll also commend the Department of Defense. Dear Minister, we are proud that you are strengthening the Serbian army, that you are getting planes, anti-aircraft defense systems, which will buy tanks and transporters in the spring. That is why all citizens of Serbia and Serbia and the region feel safer and calmer and prouder about everything you started to give the right place both in society and in the military, but also in the memory of all those people who defended this country and who defend this country. And please proceed in the same direction with the commander-in-chief. I wouldn't waste any more time. I think a lot of reasons have been said by my colleagues from the SNS. So, of course, in the voting day, we from the SNS will support this draft budget and revenue and expenditure plan for this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27333	Thank you. Srjan Nogo signed up, but I really don't have the basis to give you the replica. Then the Rules of Procedure. Well, yes, but not now. You asked for a replica. (Srdian Nogo: Article 104) It really doesn't make sense. (Srdian Nogo: I'll explain to you what this is about. You have a duty to give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't have to, because you're abusers. You asked for a replica, you know I have no basis, with all my will, to give you the opportunity. There will be more speakers, be patient, and it is possible that you will get a chance to speak. I have no problem giving you my word when conditions are created in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you to continue the session. Thank you so much for understanding. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27334	Thank you. Poet Ljiljana Bralovic says in her song – Yesterday the last resident died in one village, and today she will die in another. All those who have listened to the SANU Village Committee report know that we have practically lost another Kosovo in central Serbia. The reason for that is certainly in the budget. Regardless of the shifts made this year in relation to the previous year, it is evident that the budget is less than prescribed by law, Article 4. Agriculture and Rural Development Encouragement Acts, five billion and 320 million and 761 thousand, or 10.76%. It's my main concern, that after such a catastrophic drought that hit farmers in 2017, there was no understanding in the government that at least a legal minimum of 5% of the budget for the Ministry of Agriculture was met. Secondly, this budget, although larger than last year's budget, is smaller than it was in 2013 and 2014. This is also reflected in subsidies, it is also reflected in the Land Administration, where all the positions that were intended to be reduced...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27335	Time. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27336	Thank you for understanding. Therefore, in all the positions envisaged, except for the position of the rural development measure, where a significant increase in the funds and position of the IPARD funds has been made, where funds from the European pre-accession funds are expected, which is why this is planned. I'm sorry, but I'm really like a man who's focused on agriculture and the village, and I can't vote for a budget like this, because he's, first of all, illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27337	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27338	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members, I won't be taking much time. I think, first of all, I have a few things to say to the public. Compared to 2016, 2017 we had a budget for agriculture that was up 8.7%. Compared to now, 2018 compared to 2017, we have a budget that is higher by 5.2 billion, so more than 10%. That's what the facts are. For rural development measures, this is what they are, in fact, supplying tractors, machinery, warehouses, multi-annual societies, anti-urban networks, irrigation systems, ten times more money, or 9.6 times more money compared to 2015. Growth trends are evident. Apart from all that you see in the budget, which is 4.47% of the revenue side of the budget, that's the only thing you're right about. We'll have the IPARDs at our disposal this year for the first time in eight years, as far as they're concerned. The budget does not even show irrigation funds, which go through the Abu Dhabi Fund, or through the financing of Abu Dhabi. We still have $85 million at our disposal. When you add it all together with IPARD, you come to a lot more than 5%. But it doesn't matter. That mantra repeat, it's not just important. It is important how we used these funds and that in 2019 we will have 130 thousand hectares of land under irrigation systems more than we had. Here, December 20th, we'll have our first call, you just asked me, first call for tractors and mechanization from IPARD funds. Well, have we had that at our disposal yet? This government has made it possible. I'm grateful to everyone in the government that we have to grow. The steam's got how long the yorgan is. You can't go through with it. Our job is to place those funds better and realize, not just to share subsidies, a couple thousand dinars, or, uh, what I mentioned earlier, 20,000 dinars, so we never pay them off. Is this the responsible state? Is that the government's responsibility? What does it have to do with writing on paper and never paying off? You want paper budgets? This is a budget that is real, and I am grateful for it and thank all those who will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27339	Thank you, Minister. The word has been made by the MP Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27340	Dear Mr. Marinkovic, a member of 103, gives me the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You are obliged to give me your word to indicate a specific injury, before other MPs receive word on other grounds. I've been trying to get my right in the last few minutes. I'm not asking for much, I'm just looking for what's rightfully mine. I don't think there really was a need, because I reported first of all from the violation of Rule 104, and then you, without giving me your word, broke the Rules of Procedure again. So, twice in five minutes you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, Articles 103 and 104. You don't give me the right to a replica when a previous speaker from the ruling majority directly mentioned me, as the last of the opposition who spoke before him, putting in my mouth something I didn't say, and then you won't let me point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's any need, there's a proper session going on, we're bringing the end, maybe another one, two, three speakers are left, it's normally being discussed, and why would the right to the opposition given by the Rules of Procedure be denied? The Rules of Procedure are restrictive, very limited rights give opposition, and you and these restrictive rights narrow down and suppress us. I didn't ask for anything in this House, nor any other Member of the Dwri, except for what belongs to us in this Rules of Procedure. We fight hard just to fight for what the Rules of Procedure allows us, so that at least a little of the rights you don't violate. I guess we have the right to exist and sit in these benches and participate in the discussion. If we stick to the Rules of Procedure, there's no problem, but why don't you give us what's rightfully ours? I never really mentioned 450 million for migrants, but the Department of Justice, and as the Refugees Commissioner conducts its policy, we saw recently in Ustasha Street and the problem where they were about to throw out 20 people who were veterans, refugees, and the apartments were given to people employed in the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27341	Thank you, colleague Nogo, for this suggestion. We had communication when Mr. Vujadinović's speech was completed, but you know for a fact that I didn't really have any basis to give you a replica. Anything else if I'd given it would've been an abuse of it. Otherwise, if you had any right to Article 104, believe me, we'd have a word. I hope you'll get it in the follow-up session, so the treatment is the same for everyone. Thank you for understanding. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27342	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I'd like to draw attention to a few things about the budget, i.e. with the draft budget ahead of us, which may not sound new to those who follow these discussions every year because I will repeat more or less what I have talked about in the past years and will practically be referred to more or less the same ministers. The first thing I would draw attention to is the Law on the Budgetary System where it is quite clear that instead of constitutional 7%, the amount of AP Vojvodina should belong, and that 7% is defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 84(4), where the AP Vojvodina budget is said to be at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. I'm reading this for the next one, and to remind you of one very important thing. I read this from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, the highest legal act this country has. The constitution makes it clear that the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% in relation to the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, not in relation to the paid share, not in relation to the income side, not in relation to anything else, but in relation to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I am saying this because immediately the next sentence is said – with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. In the event that the largest part of the AP Vojvodina's budget is transfer funds, which are intended and cannot be used for anything other than what they are intended for, it is absolutely impossible for the AP Vojvodina to comply with this constitutional standard. In other words, the government that does not comply with the Constitution has been forcing the AP Vojvodina administration to violate the constitution and thus be in constant violation, a permanent misunderstanding with the legislation, although no government has respected the obligation of adopting law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina in the past nine years, and the deadline expired on 31 December 2008. So now it's going to be a full nine years as it had to be done. Since this has not been done, two years ago we have submitted an initiative to assess constitutionality to the Constitutional Court and to this day we have not received an answer, let alone anything else. If anyone thinks it is irrelevant, I must remind you that in the event of EU accession, one of the basic things that is required of us is respect for the state of law, the rule of law. The rule of law exists when the laws of that state are respected, especially when the administration of that state, the government of that state respects the laws and constitution of its state. You are in direct violation of this country's constitution and thus question the sincerity of the intention of Serbia's EU accession. On the one hand, it is positive that the revenues, which are EU financial assistance, are particularly shown, because so far has been shown in one position along with other donations and transfers, but this aid comes from the fact that honesty is assumed in the EU's intention to join. That honesty is called into question by the insincereness of this Constitution. On the other hand, other paradoxical things appear. Let's just say, there's a situation I'd like someone to explain to me. Let's say, the finance minister. How is it possible that the church communities, the church in particular, the Serbian Orthodox, use funds from the budget rather than pay taxes? When will the church start paying taxes? She's got incomes, and she's free of taxes. She's got stores where she's free of charge. How is that possible? Why is the church excluded from this country's fiscal system? In other words, there are questions we have no answers to. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo is part of the Republic of Serbia, but this government should tell citizens how much the government pays, how much money it goes for Kosovo's debts. Kosovo's external debt is being paid off by Serbian citizens. How much money is Kosovo's economy involved in the Republic of Serbia's budget? Zero. What's the cost? I'm asking you to tell me, I'm talking like someone who doesn't know, I'm just expecting you to help me understand how it's possible? So, how much will it pay, and how long? According to my information, it is until 2041 to pay Kosovo's debts. Please, Mr. Minister, answer this question for me, so let me continue with the other questions I have. Or, let me finish and then we'll do it. Why isn't there any money to support a third child until his age? If someone wants to talk about birth policy, they can't talk about a third child if the first two don't stay in this country, because it's not the third one, it's the first one. What you mentioned in Hungary after completing free schooling is the obligation to stay and work in the country, some other countries have solved it differently and have settled it by paying for schooling, but giving credits that the one who paid for it must return. Which is actually the other side of the same thing. Like this, we're schooling, like a poor country, human beings for rich countries. Which is a complete paradox. I fully agree with you there, but I ask the question – what do you do to make it not so? So, I'd like to hear the answers to these few questions, to have the Minister of Agriculture explain to me a strict amount of money that will be defined for agriculture, for the help of the paori, for helping people who have suffered from the elemental disasters in agriculture in the past year, as far as it came and what happens next? And of course, the question of all questions – when will the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina be passed? Does this government know when it will be done, whether it will be done, whether it will be brought by this government or by any other government? Who is responsible because the Prime Minister of Vojvodina told the last budget that he hopes it is the last budget to be passed without this law. Here comes this budget. His answer is that it is the parliamentary majority's decision in this assembly. You are the government that this parliamentary majority has chosen. I'm asking you now to get these answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27343	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27344	Dear Chairman, I just want to say a few more things for the public, because I suppose Mr. Canak didn't hear me talking about the funds involved in the agriculture ministry's budget. In fact, 44.1 billion are defined funds for the Ministry of Agriculture. The total subsidies will be 34.3 billion. That's 2.7 billion more than it was last year. And the budget itself is higher by more than 10% than it was in 2017. These funds do not include funds that we will withdraw from IPARD funds and do not enter funds intended for irrigation systems. They are financed on the other hand and represent an upgrade to the total of these funds to be placed. What is very important for increasing the competitiveness of our farmers, in 2018 there will be 5.6 billion dinars, almost 10 times more than in 2015 when there were 600 million dinars. What you asked about the drought, so far, we've done a few things: we've exchanged meractile for seed goods, that's one thing; another measure was the exchange of meractile corn for cattle, to allow people to get food for their cattle as easily as possible. A total of 21 000 tonnes of meracnitol corn were purchased in 2016 and 2017, at a price of 23 dinars per kilogram. It's a much higher price than it is on the market, and that's how we wanted to encourage our farmers to get more money for their goods. The deadline has been extended, otherwise, which runs until 1 November, to grant subsidised loans at special interest rates of 1% and 3%. I'll remind you, on the market, these loans are given at an interest rate of 7-8%. So the state paid the difference between 7 and 8 to 1 if it was young agricultural producers and women, and for other categories up to 3%. We extended that deadline and until 15 December stands at the disposal of the purchase of complete repromary and for all that is necessary for the service of agricultural production. We've totalled 400 million dinars for this, so we can make that happen. Likewise, recommendations have been made to local self-government units related to agricultural land tax. The process is to postpone the disposal fee, which was due in 2017. So five or six different measures. I know you'll tell me this isn't enough. But in a country that's been through three years of savings, over a three-year period that has had to be extremely looked after by public finances, this is what could have been done. Perhaps if the other minister had managed to pay five or 10,000 dinars to the farmer, what would we get? We used those funds for irrigation systems, for anti-building networks. For the first time in 2018, we will have to build new automatic anti-building systems. That's not what we've had so far. Just like we do irrigation systems. So these are the things that we're going to do in 2018 and that we've done so far. The overall budget implementation so far is 78%. That realization will be much bigger in the next two weeks and we will reach a level of realization of 96-97%. What makes me particularly grateful to the people who worked at the Ministry and the Government are the things that concern IPARDA. After eight years, we will postdemistify the whole thing and once we have to go through the road, which is a common European agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27345	Thank you, Minister Nedimovic. Mr. Nenad Canak, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27346	Mr. Minister, would you be so kind as to say, how many suspension payments will be made to the paors per hectare? Can you say that?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27347	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27348	The subsidies given per hectare will be unchanged compared to 2017. They'll be identical, but they're not just the means to be given. The funds I've been talking about are much bigger than those funds that are defined for hectare subsidy. Ten times more subsidies to other things we give that increase competitiveness. It's not just giving money per hectare, you know that it goes into classic consumption. Is this the kind of agriculture we need or do we need a farm that will be a competitor and that represents a branch of the economy? Do we need a farm like that? I think, yes, you'll agree to that, not just to spend it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27349	Thank you, Minister Nedimovic. The word has a finance minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27350	We've had opportunities to discuss these topics both in this room and in private. The conversation has always been content. The situation couldn't get through to the finals, because the conversation isn't up to us, it's up to the whole series of things. To keep a comment for the end, what I think we are, about these conversations that would offer one real framework to talk about. It would really be a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, in which we could do all those shades that I would like as a professional, as an economist and as a minister want to see. Let's start with those figures that you mentioned, from that constitutional formulation, from which we count, because the precision of that formulation was made in the Budgetary System Act and there is a detail of what goes into those 7% of the budget. Given the circumstances, today the difference between income and expenditure is so low that this nuance, whether it relates to income or expenditure, becomes trivial. It's 0.7% and it's really minimal. What remains as a question is what happens to non-tax revenues, because they have a character that is not easy to define in budgeting. So, we don't even know, we don't even take last year's or this year's size, there's the main thing about profiting public enterprises, the main thing is some other non-standard sources of income, such as profit returns from privatisation, or finalisation of bank bankruptcy, that happened ten or fifteen years ago. So this is very difficult to identify which nature of these funds, including those of the examples you mention concerning Kosovo, etc. But it's a special fus note, I'll say a sentence about it, two later. So, we took everything that says in the law, and we're here in Article 7, if I remember correctly, we wrote exactly how income tax is divided, which shares the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina in income tax, and then we defined which share of the autonomous province of Vojvodina in profit tax, or corporate income tax. One thing I think is, the other is 42.7%, it's written there in the budget, and that's non-controversial, and the figures are very easy to calculate based on an estimate, or in realisation based on real realization. We've had some dilemmas here over the past few years about whether or not we've really planned it, so when there's an incursion in some of the income elements that you've been counting on, then there's some gap that we've been talking about, but that can be solved too, that's another question. When we collected all the elements, for that standard side, including the largest item of 31 billion, which refers to the non-payment for people's salaries in the education system, then we came up with a figure that, I don't know exactly the number in billions, the dinars, it's close, we came up with a figure that's 6.17% of the Republic's income, which is about a thousand billion, 998 or so. That's the number of the first bill. That figure does not include the capital projects we added, which are eight billion for so-called. Hungary-Serbia's railway project, then some bridges, etc., additions, and that adds about 8.8 billion. I have a file, so I'll give you exactly our math, in detail, so we can move on. And that doesn't include our estimate of about nine billion, which of these 34 billion will refer to users from the territory of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. And when we add those figures, we come up with a figure that makes up 8.54% of the estimated revenue. We're pretty conservative here, because we don't count the other things that happen at all, so a good one would be a bigger law. For example, Vojvodina has an average of many, per territory and per capita, an average of many border crossings, and therefore there are both Batrovci and Horgos and everything else, so it will now have to Romania, etc. So there is an average amount of investment in these transitions, but also employment and spending of funds, relating to tax administration, customs, police, etc. So if we had a budget where principles were negotiated, etc., a little more complex mathematics, then we would come to the point that Vojvodina would say, if a project we think we have a common interest, then we'd be involved in funding and dividing the effects, if you don't think you have any interest, then you'd just give up land, resources, etc. So that's what the law would offer in relation to this rather rigid formulation, which is 7%, so now we're looking at it. No one said what that 7% refers to. This restriction that you said for three weeks, it was estimated by someone that three weeks should be investments. Now, we should watch carefully what's happening from all the things that are happening here, let's say now suddenly the subsidies are changing, so a large part of the compensations that are going, they're referring to tractors, which is investment. Now all of a sudden, we don't know exactly what numbers to count. We can sit down and watch, because it's hard to judge. If we give subsidies to tractors, instead of giving subsidies for the current subsidisation of production, then basic agricultural production, means vegetable production of wheat, corn and other things, which is an entirely old model, then the whole picture changes. So, if Serbia, as it should, if it moves on to the IPARD financing concept, which is financed by rural development and does not give social subsidies in agriculture to the smallest households, etc., then the character of these subsidies, and hence the transfer, will change. So it would be good if we had one model, one instrument that's much more complex, if you know what I mean. Then we could easily capture all those shades and all those elements. My approach is, I prefer a complex instrument in which we could look at it all and we could include investments, let's say, we could include what's going on, these are loans with the elements of grenades. gifts, like KfW's loans, that go in mine, I'm not going to tell my native, but Kickindi, where my family, who now got KfW's water line credit, which is very significant. Now, no one in Vojvodina will count it as investing in Vojvodina, but since returning it will, firstly, be part of the quota that we have, and secondly, it will be over the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and in part it will be across the city of Kickinda. But the element of the grant, which is 50% in these loans or more, is something that is actually the contribution of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Kickindi city on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. It's a similar thing with this water line in Verbas, etc. I mean, you should also consider projects that affect, and that will be particularly important when better and better quality projects are involved in maintaining the quality of the natural environment, means ecological projects and more. From all of this, I am personally, professionally and as a minister, very willing to discuss something that would be essential to the Law on the financing of Vojvodina, but we are not alone. Here it is also needed to be recognised as a politically relevant topic with all its implications, understandings and others, in order to make it happen. I can say this, I am ready and we could offer, in accordance with the principles of such regional development and other methods that exist, that very quickly, not only adopt such a law, but also apply to the work, including what is called cross-border co-operation, cross-border funding and all other nuances that exist there. My point is that there are no restrictions on our part. If anyone wants to, we'll give full support. On our part, there are no restrictions on professional or financial. I think the result would be, not far from what we have, although the flow of resources and the nature of the relationships that come from them might be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27351	Thank Minister Vujovic. George Komlensky, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27352	Chairman, you have injured Article 96(1) of Paragraph 3 and Article 98(3), which clearly states that the president, a representative of the parliamentary group, who has the right to speak up to 20 minutes in one, can possibly divide in two parts, but this does not apply in this way to the division of time, but to the start of the debate of parliamentary groups and finally. At the very least, even if you are widely interpreting what you are today as being prone to widely interpreting the Rules of Procedure, there have already been two reports, it is a maximum number of announcements that may be the head of the parliamentary group by the distinguished Mr. Nenada Chanka. To remind you, Article 98(3) says that the parliamentary group, of course, applies to the heads of parliament, does not have to use its time. So the discussion is limited to 20 minutes. Mr. Canak has used his time and I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure further, because the violation of the Rules of Procedure, or too wide an interpretation of him, we have seen all the stages that have led us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27353	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. I respected Article 104. Rules of Procedure, given that Mr. Nenad Canak is naturally entitled to a number of replicas. He used that right, he answered again, but I will only ask to give the first word to Mr. Zoran Djordjevic, Minister, to answer certain questions and then the replica goes after that. Everything else is, of course, the appraisal of the chairman, so in accordance with Article 104. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Here you go, Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27354	Dear Mr. Canak, you've probably come late and you don't know, you haven't read that we're passing a law on the financial support of the family with children, where exactly the idea of the government is that in a legitimate way it's mutilates and brings how and how it will help families with children, who will refer to first, second, third and fourth children. What does this government do? In 2014, the Council for Demography and this shows the seriousness of this government's teamwork and teamwork to come and analyze, some of the solutions it will propose. The law provides that it is possible for the Minister to regulate how and in what way it will stimulate and encourage the birth of children and thus, by a quick way that the Government can, in accordance with its capabilities, propose economic opportunities and make these solutions very quickly. The idea is that in a very close period we can bring Serbia back from a negative natural age. What is also foreseen by this law is that we increase the amount for the first child, then increase the parental supplement, the standard for the equipment that all families will receive regardless of the birth of the child, and we also want this government to make possible by its own measures, what you have asked as a second question, the retention of young people in Serbia, and how and how it will do so. It will work by making its own measures globally, by passing modern laws, by building a modern and economically strong Serbia, by creating an atmosphere and conditions for our young to remain. It's not an easy job, given the conditions and everything this government found in 2012. Be assured that we will do everything we can to make sure that this is the result of this and that there is an increased birth rate, as well as the result that young people want to stay in Serbia, as well as that other young people come to Serbia. In the end, I have one request for you, and that is only if you can call your southern province the real name - the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27355	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Right on the line, Mr. Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27356	I'll be brief. Dear Mr. Minister, investing in border crossings is a state matter and it has nothing to do with the AP Vojvodina, so it's very important that we do all these things very precisely. Because if, for example, it's some time on the territory of the Duke's highway, it's polite, if it's a capital investment that counts in the Vojvodina budget, then some of the toll is left in the Vojvodina budget, not to be centralisedly collected. I think we can agree on that. As for this proposal, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina held at its session on 8 November 2013, meaning four years ago, adopted the Platform on the Initial Foundations for the Construction of the Law on the Financing of the AP Vojvodina. That platform, here's an immediate proposal to begin with. It's not at all controversial, all of this can be resolved if there's political will. But it's also important to understand that we here can discuss percentages either this or that. The essence of this budget is a demonstration of current political relations, which I fully understand, but I must note that without decentralisation and more money in local self-government, more money to autonomous provinces, for now one, and we will see how many there will be, this government will have problems and any future needs of citizens in a way that would be better than before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27357	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go, colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27358	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we spoke somewhere at the beginning of this debate, and here we are at the very end. I'm sorry it wasn't continued in such a conciliatory tone as the first day things ran. Maybe some colleagues think, on the one hand and on the other, that it would be better to raise the ratings of this program by trying to turn the Assembly into a reality, and then the transmission will be more visible. But we can't compete and we shouldn't compete and try to compete with reality programs, it's not our job. We would have ended faster even if we'd doubled the time, 59/2MO/LZ which was an appeal for both my and most of our colleagues, that we'd doubled the time for discussion. The colleagues from the government, or from the position, would then have the opportunity to make better and more extensive praises for the budget, and we, on this side, would have some objections. Then it would be better to see who has some objections and regrets, and who simply demagogues, whether to praise, or to remove that budget. Of course, Serbian citizens are not too interested in our academic debate, so I will skip what Prime Minister Ana Brnabic mentioned. She didn't mention me, but she mentioned three things, and all three of them I said and maybe one of my colleagues. And when it comes to the budget being neoliberal, and in some ways inauguration and continuing the course of economic colonisation of the country, and that this highway Nis-Merdare-Pristina - the Albanian coast is in some way a geostrategic threat to the country's geostrategic interests. That's what I said and that's what I mean. I think that's pretty clear. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, our president, did not give me the replica yesterday to respond briefly and politely to Ms. Minister Mihajlovic, as she kept a nice story about how important roads are and how it is always better to have a highway than a goat track. Of course it's important, but there's a budget that sets priorities. I thought then and now that for this country it is not a priority highway Nis-Pristina-Albania and that it is a priority for some other and other countries, above all for Albania, that it may be a priority for some strategies in Brussels, NATO pact or Berlin, but certainly not for the state of Serbia. Of course, it is better to have good roads everywhere, but I think that through Serbia there could be many, and there are corridors that could be either finished or finished, or they could start and be made towards the sea and towards BiH, Republika Srpska and up here through Vojvodina. Anyway, I'm saying, we're not going to make a symposium about neoliberalism now, not about modern globalisation and flows, but then I'd say something very concrete, which I haven't been able to touch. These are these transfers, non-intentional transfers by units of local self-government. It's just part of this budget, a few pages, on 192, 193 and 194 pages, where it's seen how the state has purposed to local self-government municipalities what kind of money. And it's trouble with this budget and to a large extent with this policy. Mr. Vujovic said and we agreed partly on salaries and pensions, but he did not explain why the measure was not lifted. Why is this increase and the possibility of doing this increase, why is it being executed as some act of mercy by the government rather than simply abolishing the measure? I said then, and I'm telling you now that I'm afraid that some future courts, whether ours or international, will be making decisions, or measures that some future governments will have to pay back that money they took away, primarily for pensions. We'll see if it'll be as it is with foreign savings. So, I don't like that measure that the government, we adopted it here, first by local self-government takes away the funds, reduces the percentage for local self-government, and then, as a mercy, by some strange criterion, a very strange criterion, and that if we looked at and had enough time to look at these cuts, then gives them back that money they had previously taken away from them. Then we get into a situation where, say, little Petrovic gets a terrible amount of money from that transfer, much more than a relatively large Pirot, and three times more than a fireman. It's going really well, and the Sremski Karlovci are doing a little. The birthplace of our colleague Milia, Srljig went very well with 257 million. That's why Senta in Vojvodina is very bad. The shadow is excellent, with 415 million, much more than Smeder's. Tutin is extraordinary, with 466 million, much better than my Somboro, for example. Surdulka better than Subotica. Of course you'll say it's a factor of development, but it's not just that. The primary criterion should nevertheless be the size and number of inhabitants. It's hard to avoid the impression that it's a volunteerism and that some local self-government or local authorities are somehow rewarded by, I say, a non-transparent criterion. You could talk about it a lot wider. We also mentioned that Belgrade's gondola, which is clear that there is no economic justification, that it is relatively dull and narrowed budget of the state of Serbia, sets aside money for a Belgrade gondola, with Belgrade's government boasts that it is very good. Well, let Mr Mali and Vesic finance that gondola of their incomes, that is, the city of Belgrade, because you said they had improved their balance. On the other hand, we see that for two years it takes the struggle of a small municipality of Chatin in Zlatibor and local municipal authorities to build a touristly important and relevant gondola which is now eight times longer than the one that should be in Belgrade, which is cheaper than this one. So there may be some economic justification, but I see no justification that the state of Serbia that weighs and tightens that budget must finance it. Finally, indeed in the end, at one point Mr. Loncar, when he was answering his colleagues, mentioned a Hungarian example, so he said, yes, but the Hungarians are now about to return everything under the jurisdiction of the state, and what they privatised and what was a private-public partnership, then now trying to regain the authority of the state. It's one time, I don't mind it, go that way, but this government, which keeps talking about how the predecessors pulled it all apart, sold it out, and unfortunately there's a lot of truth, but obviously they didn't sell it all out. My key question is, first of all, why is it being sold, that is, why concessions are being given for Belgrade airport? Why is the PKK being sold? What about "Last"? So why don't we try bringing professional management into these companies? If they're bad, corrupt management, old, change them. Bring in competent men. You've got a knife and a cake in your hands. The state did not have to be a bad owner in both Hungary and Germany and Scandinavia. Then why does it have to be a bad owner in Serbia? If you list examples of countries yourself, this problem is a terrible brain drain, a youth spill. The family is really in trouble, but the children of my friends, my children's friends, are leaving mass. It's not worth it now that we're fighting when it's the blame. The fact is, in recent years, that trend has taken a terrible turn. I don't see how this budget will be able to even give the groundwork to reverse that trend. The macroeconomic fact is, of course, assuming that growth is 3.5%, if not, then the numbers will be different, but the trouble with me is that it's a little bit like that famous saying, me and Mr. Minister usually talk in proverbs – surgery succeeded, the patient died. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27359	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27360	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, right at the beginning to say that some colleagues need to change their interest, should move to dual education and be welders, this is deficiting, since they do not deserve to carry a legal degree, a law degree, and that diploma was a public-private partnership, it was acquired at the Bona Fides cafe. If he didn't want the professor to sign there, then to Vodnelicka, and then to the final exam at the state college, to be that he graduated there. Given his only calling, not knowledge, I still suggest that he move on to dual education and that we have that deficiting interest one more. As someone who lives in the country, I understand these things that suffer after the village and live in the city. With that in mind, I have to say that this budget is domestic and immediately to ask – those who live in the city, and in 2016 they allocated 136m euros for agriculture. They're crying today because it's 291 a year. That's how much subsidies farmers get. Then I understand these others. Total subsidies in agriculture, here, the Minister of Agriculture is there, 34 billion and 315 million, as far as I know. In 2012, i.e. the 2011 budget for 2012, there were 19 billion and something. Today they're crying, I guess, that farmers get 16 billion more than when they rule. Let me ask them right away, in 2011, they projected a budget and raised 824 billion, now a thousand and 180 billion, or 354 billion more. Then they say this government isn't domestic. I guess it's because she collected 356, without raising taxes, not significantly, 356 billion, or three billion euros. My question to these Dukes of Maldives, with yachts, lobsters, etc. e—where did those three billion go? Everything on Maldives, Vis, Hvar, White World resorts, Virgin and some other islands, etc. Where was that going? Those who care about the paors and the investments, let me ask – what kind of investments did Zoran Zivkovic have when they gave him land for 40 years? How many people did he hire on that land on the Mount of Frusch? Today, the ministers, 16 investment programs so far, about 7,000 acres, as a pair, are damaged. How? Which pair? Let's see. Today, thanks to the 2015 law, in the end, I almost became the victim of the law, to fall here in the Assembly, in early 2016, it came into force, the Minister of Agriculture was there, a total of 130,000 hectares were included in the programme to issue more than the previous years and, unlike them, we raise 53m euros annually. For these 53m euros, in privatisation, that wild, predatory, etc., 300,000 hectares of oracies, i.e. social capital, were sold with 300,000 orans in Vojvodina. Well, that's their grudges. And when you hear a professor out there saying he's getting a little secluded, here's to remind him. He was on the list of parties that singled out 136,633,739 euros, the minister may have the same data or similar in 2006. Now the hook – last year we set aside 309 million, almost three times more, two and a half times safe. This year, up to 268m euros, 281m euros were planned in 2018. All that moaning, to me, doesn't make any sense. If they like the village, they should admit it. As I will thank the SNS and all the other parties who put one farmer, as it is - they did not think of it, let alone put two peasant parties, as many as there are in Serbia, and add 120 to 150 million to the agrarian budget, i.e. to the incentives in agriculture. For that reason, I respect the ruling majority and the government. But the government that builds the country and has the energy must be supported regardless of individual bounces, mistakes, because whoever is doing this and making mistakes. It's not just the one who doesn't do anything, and they've done a lot of wrong, so they've devalued this saying in a certain way. Some people are wrong, and some people are sinful. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, they're talking about little GDP growth, 2%. Just corn to return to the normal state of 500m euros, here, let the Minister of Agriculture account, plus sugar tails, wheat, soybeans, anything that has failed, almost 1.5% of GDP. If it hadn't been for extreme drought, I don't want to mention energy, low water, etc., if it hadn't been for the drought, our GDP would have grown 4%. One more thing, this GDP is growing from production. Their GDP grew in style – I sell fields so I go to the store to buy and grow services, I trade. Their GDP grew, grew from the sale of capital, borrowings, and then was received for foreign money and money for the sale of the company, etc. They bought foreign goods and those services from the trade grew and they called it GDP growth, it grew exclusively from trade, services, did not grow from production, as is now the case. I've carefully considered all their objections. In 2011, they projected a budget deficit of 113 billion. I think he would have reached 160. So they projected it to 14%, they reached 20%, and today they say the error is 0.6%, even though they know it's going to be a surplus. Then they leave us a question about how it's going to grow VAT? For the simple reason that pensions and wages have been increased, so these ordinary citizens, unlike these tycoons who lay wealth there on the white world islands, have produced poverty, this government in a certain way repays money to the poor, properly deploying it, because they spend money inside the country. They're raising demand consumption, and that's why VAT will grow. It's hard to unwisely explain that you can, he wouldn't be unreasonable. Also, there have been objections here, Minister Knezevic knows, and some stories about some reserves, and I've been looking for control. The minister, Knezevic, also knows the minister, Ljajic, who is not there. And we found 2013 and their hands in it. Today she is a little descendant of the Wolf and the one there with Marinika Tepic, they tend to say that, here I promise, my wife will not go out to a press conference to cry, regardless of what was caused, nothing deservedly brought into that oar. And who did it? A man who says he's not good with the state, that it's a party. The party state paid him 893 thousand dinars for a tractor that he obtained from the Republic of Serbia, I don't know if the minister has that information, but I claim he should have gotten it. He got it in a legal way unlike them, we did not select our own and theirs, but anyone who met the conditions. In advance, he gets the right to buy a tractor, and then when he buys it right to vomit, we don't maim anyone in the way they did it. They need to know, their rights should be used, but they are also mandatory young from the Wolf descendent is obliged and obliged to tell us what happened to 55 million dinars that he, his old man who was in the public sector, so I mention him – the head of the National Employment Service for the care of the elderly, pumped and put in their pockets. Today he tried to insult me, it can't be everyone's gone now, it's a message to him, this government, he doesn't realize it's not only grateful for the praises, but also for the advice, even for the criticism. It's not important to rule, it's important to build a country, and we all need to take part in it. The ladder of success cannot climb with its hands in its pockets, as those of the former regime's party wanted. They saw the ladder of success as an elevator instead of a ladder of success. We must be, unlike them, worthy, consecrated every day. We have to spend time on the rails, the plow, not on the couch, not in the cafes and not in the Maldives.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-08-0.u27361	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, under Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 31 of the agenda. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00 hours. So, December 11th, Monday, 10.00 hours. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 21.25 p.m.]]
