ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24390	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24391	I refer to Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic and Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ana Brnabic - Why did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the Serbian Government, cancel the hospitality of the Ukrainian ambassador to Belgrade, Oleksandra Aleksandrovic, after his difficult anti-Serbian statements to BIRN? What did he say, imagine, Olexander Aleksandrovic? His name is in a new-compromised Ukrainian language, and his last name is in Russian. Olexandar Aleksandrovic said Russia is training Serbian tenants to kill Ukrainians. There are no mercenaries in Russia, in Russian countries, and they don't kill Ukrainians. In the Russian Donetsk region, Serb volunteers in the Serbian country are struggling. It is the province of Slavnoserbia, which was formed in the 18th century by the Russian Empress Jelisavet Petrovna. There is another Serbian country that is per occupation of Ukrainian Nazis. It is New Serbia or Nova-Serbi in the area of today's Kyrovic area. Then he says Russia used Serbian extremists to carry out a coup in Montenegro. A terrible lie, a hoax by the Montenegrin mafia regime, Milo Djukanovic, who arrested a group of Serbs on false charges and is now being tried in an mounted process in Podgorica. He says Russia encourages Serbian separatistism in Republika Srpska to destabilise BiH. Russia is helping the survival of Republika Srpska, which is threatened by Western forces. He continues to say that Russia is using a Serbian factor to destabilise Macedonia. In what way does the Serbian factor destabilise Macedonia? Does anyone have one argument for that? Serbia wants Macedonia's stability. For us, the stability of Macedonia is of vital interest, and there the Western forces of the butchers are bringing their own furniture to lead to Macedonia's division into the Macedonian and Albanian parts. He also says Russia plays an active role in turning Kosovo Serbs against Kosovo Albanians. Listen to this, turning Kosovo Serbs against Kosovo Albanians, that handful of Serbs who remain persecuted, unhappy, is now Russia turning against Kosovo Albanians. Furthermore, it sells its planes to Serbia to create tensions with Croatia. As Croatia was armed to the teeth, the Americans received the Apache helicopters, which received launch ramps for ground-earth missiles 300km in range, nothing at all. He also says Putin doesn't care about Serbia, but only benefits for destroying Europe. After such statements, Oleksandr Aleksandrovich has nothing to look for in Belgrade. He speaks in the middle of Belgrade, making the worst insults and slanders against the Serbian people and Serbia tolerates it. There is a people's business in the Serbian people, the wolf's dictionary said: "Fear the ram, fear the shit - when will I live?" Come on, I understand what the government is afraid of, in this case, of that Scott, the American ambassador, who has lush horns, a symbol for huge and heavy weapons, but why should Serbia be afraid of shit like Oleksandra Alexandrovich? At least he can get an emergency procedure from his territory. It is high time to set an example for other ambassadors not to be able to deal with Serbia more in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24392	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24393	Thank you. Somehow in the same tone, but concerned about the security of our country, the Republic of Serbia. I have come up with information, which I find extremely important and therefore I am directing it to Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, BIA Director Bratislav Gasic, Director of KIM Office Marko Đurić, VBA Elder and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. All are subject to the same questions I'm going to ask. Namely, what information is available about Jim Dawson's stay in Serbia, including my Panchev, how can it be proven, as he published himself at one point? Jim Dawson, otherwise a Scottish, world-renowned fascist, mobileist of militant groups of people, someone who has also engaged in Donald Trump's campaign, mobilizing radical right-wing men, a man who arms these teams, teams and supporters, and especially, as fascists, is fighting basic human rights, women's human rights, Muslims, LGBT communities, refugees, migrants, etc. and to whom, due to the problems he has caused in Hungary, the entry there is prohibited, and then Greece, and at the request and appeal of Hungary as well. Since there is clear evidence that this year, during the May-June month period, Jim Dawson was in Serbia, and what are his photos from Avala, from the Belgrade monastery Rakovic, and quite clearly, my next question – what are the measures of the MUP, BIA, VBA and the authorities of this country were and what have they done about or by keeping quiet about this terrible information the government is covering up, what more, protects Jim Dawson and his supporters in the Republic of Serbia? Furthermore, how is it possible that this individual has found refuge right in the Republic of Serbia and that this fascist is giving orderly donations to Serb monasteries? Although the photos of donations that can be publicly seen do not contain food, nor drugs, nor hygiene supplies, but are more like long and shorter pipes in the form of weapons. These photos exist. I'm also looking for an answer to the question -- is Jim Dawson still in Serbia? In fact, I'm asking for information on the records of his stay in Panchev, Belgrade, Serbia, KIM, when and where he was, he was coming, going, for what period, from when to when? I want the exact answers to these questions. So, where do they ask customs and border guards and all of them? Of course, if I do not receive answers to these questions within 15 days, as the Rules of Procedure says, I will consider the government of the Republic of Serbia either concealing and protecting JIMA Dawson in the Republic of Serbia, which means I have a huge security problem in the country. Otherwise, a large part of the activity of Jim Dawson's interest here, concerning Kosovo, where he himself, along with the regular paroles of Kosovo, is Serbia forever and so on, publishes photographs of Orthodox priests beside long pipes and signs them as war priests. In light of that, I ask especially Mark Djuric, but also all of the state's competent officials -- what do they know about at least two donations from this fascist, the Serbian monasteries of KIM? Are they so-called. The donations of JIMA Dawson in Kosovo went through administrative crossings, as he did, or in some other way and some other way? In addition, I want information on what the highest officials in our country know about the hosts of Jim Downson in Serbia, who led him through shootings, including, of course, my Panchevo, which is witnessed by joint photographs. It's easy to see them and prove everything that I'm talking about. What concerns me further is information that can be found on the site "beyond dragons", where those co-workers, the hosts of Jima Dawson in Serbia, in masked uniforms, armed, in photos that they post with text and say they participate in securing the Bulgarian-Turkish border from migrants, and say -- from radical Islamists, who say -- illegally via Bulgaria and Serbia are entering Europe. They write for themselves – a number of ISIS members have recently been caught. What has been done with these captured people, what has been done with them, what has been done with them, who have been handed over, what exactly is this really about, because these are serious security issues that should concern everyone in this room and every citizen in the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24394	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf students and teachers of the elementary school "Ruđer Boskovic" and their guests, participants of the project "Atina-Belgrade History and Architecture". who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24395	Thank you, Chairman. Due to a series of untrue information we heard from the prime minister and minister, when asking the question last Thursday, I will have to ask again Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Minister for Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Policy, Mr Zoran Djordjevic, about the number of unemployed persons in Serbia. So we heard various data about how the unemployment rate has been reduced to 11.8% that, over a few years, we probably won't have any more unemployed persons in Serbia, but those who today have no jobs in Serbia know very well that it's not really true. So I'm asking a concrete question to answer -- what exactly in 2012 was the absolute amount of unemployed persons on the National Employment Service's record? What was the percentage then, how much today, locked down with November 1st, in Serbia, in an absolute number of unemployed persons and what percentage is that? What exactly was the absolute amount of employees in 2012, and what is it today and what is the percentage? We listen to some manipulations all the time, we listen to false statistics about how we got 11.8% of unemployment in Serbia. The prime minister here in this room said that in 2012, we had 790,000 unemployed people, that today we have 620, that it was 26%, and today it was 11.8% unemployment rate. I'm simply curious whether any of us here know better or worse math, or simply, it has some other methodology by which the percentage is reduced without hiring people in Serbia. Not to mention that out of the 100 or 150 grand we don't have on the employment record today, probably half of them left Serbia, half of which you took off the employment records, because they don't report regularly, because they have nothing to report for, and when someone doesn't report for more than three months to the National Employment Service, they automatically delete. Of course, there are those who are not alive today, and they were looking for a job through the National Employment Service. Another question I would also like to ask, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Minister of Finance, is the allocation of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget reserve. These days we see that like Santa Claus, some cities and municipalities share funds, it is in the first place that Belgrade has received 110 million dinars, Zaječar 380 million dinars, not to mention 2016 when Nis got 260, Kragujevac 220, Novi Sad 190, Jagodina etc. Here in this home you took the cities and municipalities of money from the new Law on the financing of local self-government, and then you allocate that extra funds to you where it suits you, and as a rule to those local authorities who are not able and are unable to do their own jobs, and then you say because of the small inflow of funds to the city of Belgrade, we're going to give 110 million dinars. Why would the citizens of Piroth, Paracino, or any other city you took the money from finance it? These municipalities are today forced to introduce new parafiscal commitments, to raise taxes to replace the budget gap you made for them, to further centralise the state and centralise revenues. Instead of working on decentralisation and reviving all parts of Serbia, you are constantly cetralizing Serbia and taking money in one place, and then, according to political intent and for the purpose of the campaign, you distribute it as you think it should. Then it doesn't have to surprise the citizens when the government is dividing millions from the current reserve, like Ralph Fines, giving 62 million to make a movie, Minister Vulina 400 million from the reserve, for the Ministry of Defence, of which a significant portion of those funds was spent on buying war furniture, 12 televisions, 30 crystal ashtrays, electric barbecues, 30 bathrobes, etc. To equip downtown in Karajordjevo, so he can go to rest, probably with his political comrades. This is the way you systematically destroy this country's system, destroy the state, and the consequences will be borne by Serbia and its citizens. So I ask the question, to provide me with the correct answer – to whom are all the funds allocated from municipalities and to what amount, in the previous nine months of 2017?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24396	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24397	Thank you. I must say, unlike some colleagues, I have no bad experience with the answers of most of the officials of the state to whom I have referred the question. Sometimes your answers are more informative, sometimes more content, sometimes they're a little more empty, more formal, but most of them they're all coming. In that sense, I also appeal to colleagues from the government and the opposition not to abuse this institution for some attractive words. These were all meaningful and overly important issues today. I remember, probably older among the viewers and here in the hall, they know that once in the one-party assembly, government officials feared questions, such as Mr. Batric Jovanovic, how important it was and how those questions and answers were being followed. So I'm asking you to keep this institution from some day-to-day political instrumentalization. Of course, some questions are more pleasant and important, perhaps less, but they should all be important and relevant. There is one exception, there is an exception to this, which is one address from which there is no answer, which is the address of the president or the Presidency of the Republic, which I asked or asked about, in connection with a statement he made on September 26th in "The Question", where an inappropriate way is mentioned the possibility of getting a UN chair for Kosovo. I said, maybe it's a slip, maybe it's such a stupid formulation, that's why I asked for an explanation. On the other hand, a few days later, on October 5th, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic said no chairs came into consideration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24398	Comrade Vukadinovic, would you like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24399	Of course. Mr. Ivica Dacic said that the chair for Kosovo to the UN is out of the question, and that it could possibly only get a locust or a shambles. That's the expression he used. Since foreign policy is unique and is guided by the Serbian government, through the foreign ministry, I ask the foreign ministry and the presidency once again, for clarification and an answer to the question – is there any possibility that Kosovo will get or Serbia will accept a chair in the UN for Kosovo under any circumstances. I think that would be absolutely unacceptable and terrible regardless of the reason. I repeat, Mr. President's formulation was that Kosovo would not enter the UN unless we were satisfied. What is it that can please Serbia to accept, in quotes or without quotes, to please Serbia and Mr. Vukic to accept a chair for Kosovo in the UN. Let me be told that it is a failure, let them say that Serbia's policy is what it is officially said to be, and I will be satisfied in this regard. So, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency of the Republic. My second question and last one goes to the Ministry of the Interior and I ask Mr. Minister and Chief BIA to answer loud and clear here, in writing or otherwise, are there any parallel, secret or private listening centres in Serbia? Secondly, are they being followed in a direct or indirect manner or are they listening to the talks of the MPs and leaders of the opposition? So it's important for me to have an official response from the official address, and then we'll see what to do with that information and that knowledge. There are different speculations, I hope they are incorrect, I hope the rumors are true, but that is why, respecting both this home and the institution, I want a clear and loud answer to that question. I repeat and stress whether or not there are parallel or private listening centres, according to the MUP, or competent security agencies, outside the security agencies system, or not. And secondly, and lastly, is there any excuse, or justification, to follow or listen to the talks of the MPs and leaders of the opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24400	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24401	I question the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, as well as the formally responsible individuals for the future of this country. The simplest thing is, the question is: why is one word, talk about modernisation, about the EU, as a priority, the other is one retrograde policy, relativisation of the past, even rehabilitation of war crimes, and perhaps even third thoughts. Here, just in these past few days, all statements by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, in fact, lead to the fact that they point to the world's injustice to Serbia and Serbs, which I am primarily referring to as the Prime Minister's statement that the UN tribunal is not objective, that it has not contributed to reconciliation, as if the UN tribunal had been called at all, as if the role of actually working reconciliation. Please, Mr. Chairman, can you do your job and stop Mr. Vojislav Seselj, is this a free country, can questions be asked here normally? Please do your job and pay attention to what's going on in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24402	Comrade Micic, do your job and ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24403	Okay, but look, I can't talk because he talks all the time while I talk and still insults me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24404	I can hear you perfectly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24405	So, I'm going on. The Prime Minister criticised The Hague tribunal and said it did not contribute to reconciliation and that it was not objective, which I do not know what it means. Does it mean we want to leave the UN after that court established the UN Security Council? Secondly, which is the credibility of the Prime Minister to criticise such an international court, and on the other hand, our judiciary shows such weaknesses, so let's say, that the Ovcar case has not been resolved for 14 years, among other things, because we couldn't set up a special war prosecutor for war crimes, not to mention the Smurfs, not to mention the North, not to mention the crimes in peace. We've been unsolved for 12, 13 years, the murder of two young soldiers, in peace, in the middle of Belgrade on Topcider. Then we're giving ourselves some right, some credibility to criticise someone else who's about to be shut down and giving him a mandate, I mean that The Hague tribunal. So, this apparition is like a worldwide injustice towards us, towards Serbia. Secondly, statements that make up false hope and expectations, such as, say, that the state of Suriname has called off recognition of Kosovo's independence. I mean, what do you get with that? Simply, is that how we actually realize the signed Brussels Agreement, and is that how the normalisation of relations between Belgrade and Pristina is done? Of course not. In the end, the President of the Republic sharpened rhetoric, especially towards the West, especially after meeting with Mr Brian Hoyt J and said that it was stronger for octave, that he had to answer for octave, although power never measured in octaves, I mean, say, the volume of sound to decibels, for example. It was indeed an inappropriate reaction to such a single statement, to Hoyt Ji, that he warned us that it was not good to sit on two chairs, that it was considered an insult here, as a threat, was welcomed to the knife. I absolutely think it wasn't, wasn't it an opportunity for the President of the Republic to say that it was our EU priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24406	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24407	In the end, very dangerous are, say, these statements from the boss... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24408	Thank you, colleague Micic. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24409	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected leadership, during last week's debate on educational laws, education laws, there was a school in Novi Pazar. I just want to inform the Minister of Education and ask him one question and make a request. In fact, I believe more out of bad intentions than out of information, bad words are said, bad things about restoring a school in Novi Pazar. It's about a central school in Novi Pazar, the "Stefhan Nemanja" school. I'm going to issue you with a few facts published by the Public Investment Management Office, which has also been overseeing, implementing and calling out procurement for the renovation of this school. In fact, half a million euros were invested in the reconstruction of this school, in a school attended by 1223 students and began their work in a new, renovated and one magnificent building. Namely, the "Stefhan Nemanja" school was renovated by the funding of the Kingdom of Norway, which donated 360,000, the Republic of Serbia, which donated 70,000 and 70,000, gave the city of Novi Pazar. This school was, indeed, in one catastrophic state, with a flat roof that was sneezing, with moisture that destroyed virtually the walls of most classrooms, and with an extremely bad state of wet knots. Of the funds he has provided, practically, to say, school management and with cooperation with the town of Novi Pazar, which has prepared all the documents, to say with one very high-level management, with the head of the school, the full restoration of this school has been completed. So, the school today, given that in the very center of the New Market, is indeed the pride of the educational community. The school, which has a completely renovated facade, a thermal facade, a changed way of heating, is heated to biomass, a completely renovated and changed entire internal infrastructure, I mean tables, tables, and today that school really looks brilliant, to the pride of all citizens of Novi Pazar and to the pride of the Ministry of Education. I want to show you what that school looks like on the outside. Indeed, beautiful colors have been selected and indeed shows that many work is being done to restore the school’s infrastructure. In the New Market, we had, and I often mention it, ministers, we have problems with going into three shifts, with the students going to the departments that are overbooked, over 30 of them are there, and we're just solving these problems. This government in the past and this term, with the help of the City Administration in Novi Pazar, has made three new schools, three wonderful schools, rebuilding existing schools, and that is commendable. I would like to ask the directors, such as the director of this school, Edin Dupoljac, who, with his work and animation, has managed to animate both teachers and parents of the school to help themselves, work, contribute themselves, rewards, to establish some kind of reward that the Ministry of Education will hold, as a reward and commendation to high-priced, valuable, good, honorable executives, such as this executive and such as many executives who are directors of schools who are in difficult conditions, indeed, primarily motivated by the desire, altruism and the desire to raise education and the full status of this country, to praise themselves, to publicise themselves. It's something that is very important to these people and something that I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to establish and keep in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24410	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24411	Thank you. The MP group "Enough Has Been" has the first question for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Today is November 2nd, yesterday the deadline laid down by the Budget System Act to reach the National Assembly for next year's budget. The deadline is prescribed so that MPs are allowed at least a month to study such a large document and have enough time to propose improvements to the amendments. My question is - why did the Prime Minister Brnabic not send the draft budget to the next Assembly within the legal deadline and when can we finally expect it to reach the Assembly? Will it leave enough time for MPs to study such a large document and amend it? The second question is for the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. This is the 31st time we've asked him questions. The preceding 30 questions have not been answered, although the answer is required to be sent to the National Assembly within 15 days. First question - why does he insist on breaking the law and not answer the questions he is obliged to answer? The second question - when does it intend to stop breaking the constitution by resigning as SNS president, because the post is in direct contrast with the role of the president of the state, to which the citizens chose him to perform? Also, the question -- is the coalition he made in Kosovo and Metohija with Ramush Haradinaj in fact the introduction of the preamble to Kosovo and Metohija from our Constitution? The third set of questions is for the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic. So far, we have asked her questions on 23 occasions, and we have not received answers. This is the 24th time we've asked her questions, which she's obliged to answer within 15 days. First question - why does it break the law and not answer within 15 days? The second question – why did it allow the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to send the Budget Act to the National Assembly within the prescribed time limit? I remind President Gojkovic that the National Assembly has the control function of the executive authority. It's our job to control the work of the executive, and if the government violates the Budgetary System Act, it's our job to warn the government. Did the chairman, Gojkovic, warn the government that she broke the deadline and when, finally, the budget bill for next year will reach the National Assembly? Also, questions for President Gojkovic – when will he finally begin to lead this assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? When, for example, will he start holding regular meetings with the College? We've had barely two college meetings in the past year and a half. If we want this Assembly to function as it should, then meetings of the College are necessary. All previous meetings of the National Assembly that she did not lead, but led by someone else, had regular meetings with the College. The next question – when, finally, will we get the Annual Work Plan of the National Assembly, since we have been working on the clock for a year and a half, in an emergency procedure, overnight, not having enough time to study legislative proposals, not having enough time to submit quality amendments, because it deliberately does not leave space for MPs to do their job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24412	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24413	Thank you. National MP, Vice President Arsic. Please, I'm a female, please speak to me as a relative who fits. I refer to several addresses, including Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Finance Minister Dusan Vujovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Branko Ruzic and Novi Sad Mayor Milos Vucevic, all in connection with a serious financial problem that has hit the town of Novi Sad. Some media reported yesterday. It is that his citizens filed more than 340 lawsuits against the town of Novi Sad, because our mayor, in his enthusiasm to be the same, probably, as colleagues from Belgrade, without measure, plan, border, in our case, began to dig up, dig, asphalt, concrete, and destroy everything in front of him. A little trouble has arisen in making some citizens a street where their backyards are located, without having previously implemented an expropriation procedure. Now these citizens, at least 340 of them, are suing the city of Novi Sad and seeking compensation, and all worth two billion dinars, which is a serious blow to the budget of any city, including Novi Sad, which once applied to a city that has the largest budget compared to the number of inhabitants. There are 340 cases like I said. 1.4 billion dinars and another 30,000 euros are wanted. In more than 75 cases, verdicts have already been made. The city was complaining about some, some of them were already just. In any case, if some have been made, we can assume that, in all cases, since they are all the same, those judgments will be made for the benefit of the citizens. My question to all of these is – where does the city of Novi Sad think they're paying off those two billion dinars to all those citizens who are asking for compensation, because the mayor has paved the yard for some reason, and before that, the Expropriation Act that needed those parts of the yard through which they'll buy from them and give them compensation, and then you're building a street, and not at night on someone's private property to make a street? What may be the worst of all is the boastful behavior of the mayor who insults these citizens, ridicules them, and yet says it's scandalous that they sued the city because they're being paved by the street. The only thing scandalous about this thing is the boast of Milos Vučević, because they don't complain about citizens having street asphalts, but they complain about someone building a street on their private property, past the law, contrary to the Expropriation Act and without any right to do so. The question of Milosa Vučević is – what will reduce the city's giving and that money is intended to pay for this failure? The issue of Branko Ruzic and Dusan Vujovic is whether or not they are planning to provide new Sad with some additional assistance, given that two billion dinars are an extremely large amount, and you, Vice President Arsic, may also know that Novi Sad has several more lawsuits to face, worth six billion dinars, from the time that Maja Gojkovic was mayor of Novi Sad, which is the judicial verdict of the Supreme Cassation Court. The new Sadu has already had 400 million dinars removed from one of these six billion dinars in total. The Supreme Cassation Court on that occasion determined, I quote, that the responsibility of both parties, i.e. Maja Gojkovic and Ilija Devic, for the damage caused is equal and that they knew without a doubt that they were negotiating an illicit matter. My question to Ana Brnabić is – how many citizens of Novi Sad will cost the haughtiness and crime of SNS officials?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24414	Comrade Jerkov, we will forward all the questions to all the addresses. I'd just like to inform you that Mr. Mayor of the New Now has no obligation to answer your question, because, under the Constitution, it's a local self-government. You know, you've been a long MP, that we don't have jurisdiction in local self-government. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before I ask the question, I would like to express my gratitude to Agriculture Minister Branislav Nedimovic for following recommendations that the top student of the University of Belgrade's Faculty of Agriculture with an average rating of 10.00 Milica Lazarevic receive a six-month internship. I believe that every minister should receive the best student of the generation at least for a traineeship before deciding whether to continue his career at the university or the institute, to meet this part of the state administration. I think this is a nice example. Second, I ask the National Assembly that all parliamentary questions I have asked from the oath to this day be answered at last, that is, to forward an intervention for answers to those to whom they are directed. Third, I would like to address the joint issue and the proposal to the presidents and vice-presidents of the National Assembly and the presidents of the National Assembly's parliamentary groups, which is due to a statement by the foreign minister that the Republic of Suriname has annulled the recognition of Kosovo's independence from 2016, which deserves a decent appreciation of this legislature as well. Thus, the Republic of Suriname became the second state to annul a decision to recognise Kosovo's independence because, according to my knowledge, Sao Tome and Principle in 2013 also annulled a decision to recognise Kosovo's independence, with a reason that the decision was not adopted at their assembly. So will the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also hold a special session to express its gratitude to the leadership and people of the Republic of Suriname? The second question, also to the president, vice-presidents of the Assembly and the presidents of the parliamentary groups, will they also call for a special thematic session of the National Assembly in the AP Kosovo and Metohija and invite the President of the Republic and all members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President and other members of the Constitutional Court? I believe this is a matter of national urgency, given the following three facts: firstly, a discussion and statements for the MPs from Kosovo and Metohija Slavi Ristic, who pointed to certain unconstitutions regarding the swearing of Serbian judges and prosecutors before the president, so-called. The Republic of Kosovo; second, unadopted motion for a resolution on AP Kosovo and Metohija, proposed by Parliament Group Dvera and MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Slavisa Ristic and, in particular, third, yesterday's conference for journalists of the SRS at which the SRS deputy president has shared the Regulation on the exercise of special rights of judicial officials and employees in judicial authorities and the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions from Kosovo territory and Metohija and the text of the oath signed by judges and prosecutors of Serbian nationality before the president of the self-proclaimed so-called so-called so-called ‘Republic of Kosovo’. the Republic of Kosovo. I would like to refer the third question to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Since what year and why have the National Assembly not been sent to consider the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia? The obligation to deliver final accounts even has associations of three members, one of which can be a minor, and we are not considering the final account of the Republic of Serbia, which has 1,200 billion budgets. The next question I also ask the Prime Minister and the finance minister. If the exact statement by the Prime Minister that a surplus of 80 billion dinars has already been reached in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, I do not think that a surplus has been reached, but is less in the budget than was planned, probably by so much – why not abolish the Law on the temporary regulation of the way in which pensions are paid and not increase subsidies for agriculture to the amount prescribed by law? I'm asking the next question to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture. Please provide me with data for the period 2004 to 2017, by year, on the planned internal means of incentives for agriculture and rural development, in absolute amounts and in percentages, in relation to the prescribed basis for the calculation of funds for the purposes in question, etc. Agrarian budget. The next question – does the Government and the RES, including the Agency for Restitution, as an executive agency, plan to restitution the cooperative property that has been seized from July 1953 without compensation?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24416	Bring the end, Comrade Shevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24417	If you'll excuse me, just one more question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24418	You can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24419	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24420	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24421	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first question - what will the state authorities do about the guerrilla violent action that one parliamentary party is taking, by spreading violence and impatience, including in the National Assembly, and not only about the attack on the president of the National Assembly, because so far in their political activities they have harassed what is known to the public, four women in fact five. On March 28, 2017, the secretary of the woman, the municipality of Pećinci, harassed three MPs and council members from Cačka, and 50 persons, members, sympathisers, including one 12-year-old, and the lady had a stressful situation and it was written in the doctor's report. At work when a few people broke into her office, she said they were yelling, threatening, upset, dizzy, unconscious, not losing consciousness, having a feeling her heart was pounding, working fast, feeling tight in her chest. Yesterday it was said that I was lying. There are also photos of the intrusion and the gentleman who said yesterday that I was lying, and in that photograph is an MP in the National Assembly. No, he's present right now. There is a clear incursion of that group of people and in the municipality of Caves when another woman was exposed to violence. In this regard, my question is justified, what will the state authorities do, since the Law on Political Parties states that the spread of impatience is forbidden, let alone some Latvian violence. Another question of mine, related to Zoran Zivkovic, what will the VBA, the Ministry of Defence, the prosecution, undertake for knowledge, now I tell them again, that in 1999, during the aggression and murder of civilians, not only the military faces, Zoran Zivkovic embezzled a million and a half marks from the Ministry of Defence through the Targett company allegedly for the purchase of a tank ammunition that was missing from the military because of a possible ground attack. He offered to buy it in Russia via Bulgaria from the YU Guarantar Bank has paid millions and 250 thousand German marks and $100,000 which is a total of 1.5 million missing marks, the ammunition has never been obtained. His work is a team more difficult because it was done during the NATO pact aggression when Milica Rakic and other civilians, shot buses and Shinobuses were killed and not to list all crimes. Furthermore, what the state authorities, the prosecution and the justice ministry will do against Vuk Jeremic for his contract with the Energy Project where he sold land belonging to the state of Serbia abroad and facilities for a price that was lower and established through skills for 5.6m euros. Furthermore, what the state authorities and prosecutors will do against Miroslav Aleksic, Ljubisa Knezevic and his wife and daughter of the latter, who established a fund for human resources or something, pump up the NGO and from the state of Serbia in three years 54 million 726 thousand 976 dinars. Apparently, they nursed old and powerless persons, and in fact the citizens confirmed that the action allegedly carried out that there were no major activities in this regard. Also, I ask what the state authorities will do against Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic because they actively sought to win the election to participate in the construction of the wild Albanian state of Kosovo as they call it, because, while Wikilics depes are confirming from the US Embassy, they asked Kosovo's independence to be declared but after the election of Boris Tadic, who took the oath on February 15th and independence declared February 17th. Their desire has been granted, and I ask about what will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24422	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24423	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, my questions today concern the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. they are addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, and they continue on the issues of my colleague, Pekarski, who started a series of issues last Tuesday, and concerns the affairs of the former city government in Belgrade, primarily in tycoon Dragan Gilas and the yellow company, or DS. Since it is known that from 2013 until today, as many as 44 associates of Dragan Gilas have been arrested and processed at the same time as the DS official, so that there is no confusion we have a precise and nominal list of those persons but I do not have enough time to read them all, in as many as eight different affairs, and in which the City of Belgrade is directly damaged by over eight and a half million euros. My question is whether one of the former city yellow authorities will answer because they haven't asked for effective security funds for years in the event of non-payment of compensation for the construction of city land, i.e. compensation for the planning of construction land from 2004 to 2011. In doing so, Gilas and the company left us a minus and a debt of around 280m euros because they allowed investors in this way not to pay compensation for the construction land. Not to be confused is not all the debt, it is part of that total debt of over a billion euros that we talked about at one of the previous sessions. So it's 280m euros. Basically, it can be suspected because we know who we're dealing with that most of that money ended up in the pockets of just the ones who made it possible. Now, our city government, the current city government, the SNS government has, of course, broken this practice and today the city is working in a different way. So today they're looking for effective security funds in this case, so mortgages and Balkan guarantees and everything else about it. That's why today the city is working incomparably better than at the time of tycoon Gilas, which is why we have more capital investments, which is why we have more projects. We have more construction sites, more refurbishing schools, more kindergartens, more jobs, if you like. That's why our bridge costs 40m euros, and their bridge cost 160m euros, and it's the same bridge, same structure, same length, same width. Because we don't take expensive and overpriced loans to buy who knows what kind of trams that, by the way, we can't even use because they're not suitable for the tracks we own. You remember that affair. There were also smudges over the competition documentation and about technical conditions and about the choice of a more expensive bidder and the fact that the Public Procurement Act was effectively violated and that the tram fell apart immediately at the beginning of its use. That's the difference between us and them. We know we don't have 80m euros to throw. We know that we are not able to just throw 80m euros into Belgrade's citizens. We know how hard it is to make that money to just throw it away. That is why our budget revenues, the revenues of the city of Belgrade are always increased and are constantly growing. That is why the budget of the city of Belgrade is higher by more than 200m euros this year. That's why the proceeds from the building land we mentioned are higher. It's money that can then build schools and hospitals and kindergartens and public surfaces and green and parks. Once again just for the end, one great news that has not been discussed in the Assembly in recent days, which is Serbia's progress on the world's Duing Business List. So this year Serbia has progressed four positions on the world's Duing Business List. It is another confirmation that the reforms we have begun to produce results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24424	Since no one is answering for a word anymore, we continue the search in detail on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on dual education. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Vladimir Marinkovic and MP Milovan Drecun. Government representatives, meanwhile, came to the National Assembly session, so we continue the debate. The 14th amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24425	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have filed is in a desire to support the government's decision that they are amendments and members, I will admit it very much alike. The reason for that is, certainly, the government's quest to get back what they've destroyed, to get back quality masters, and through the masters, we get quality businesses. As someone who worked at IMT, I can tell that Belgrade had together IMT, "dragon", "Minnell", "Record", IMT Rakovica, that he had "Ikarbus", etc., that he had 235 thousand workers in production. They were top masters, mostly craftsmen, who made a big social product, and many worked abroad, so they promised national income. So, in order to help the government have it back in a few years, I have to say that these three to four years of contracts, which those who haven't done anything complain that the employers will then insert a new generation, it's my desire to introduce another generation, and I believe that some masters will retire, transfer their knowledge to that next generation, and that this number of good masters will increase every year, increasing our social product and national income. They said the law was harmful. The law wasn't harmful, they were harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24426	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24427	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is about a dual education agreement. I must say that the former regime has not solved, not only the basic problems of education and secondary education, but also the obligation of the school to implement learning through work and the obligation of the employer is related to the realization of learning through work, as well as the plan and programme of learning through work, which has resulted in poor training of our students and, again, has resulted in economic policy results in us and has led to low productivity. That is why this law on dual education is a first-rate teaching step, initiated by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, and the realiser is our Minister Sarcevic, one of the best moves in education and education for the past 14 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24428	Thank you. The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojčić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24429	A letter, Vice President Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24430	I don't want to call you a letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24431	If it doesn't matter, then I'll tell you vice presidents, and then, I believe, you won't be angry. So this is another one in a series of members that defines contracts that are concluded within profiles where dual education is achieved, which are full of school obligations, for children, for parents, for all who participate in this education process, except for employers who receive an unlimited amount of extremely cheap labour. What is strikingly missing from all these contracts and those defined by Article 15 and the following members is any obligation of the employer to students attending dual education. When I say any obligation, I mean, first of all, the obligation that after the student finishes his education in that company, which is the key difference between the German model, which you are so pleased to call on, and our model, because in the German model, first of all, no one would have thought alive that those children would pay below the minimum wage, and the second obligation of the employer is that the child who trained in employment after finishing school and that is the only dual education. This child, therefore, is educated in a company where he will continue to work toward the needs of his employer. If we educate children for certain employers, as you tell us here, why there's no obligation for these last employers to hire those children or those children just to work while they're at school, and when they stop being students, when they're supposed to be real workers, then all of a sudden, employers don't need them anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24432	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24433	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Article 15 speaks about the content of the dual education contract. The content of the contract is something that is envisaged, which will be provided for by this law when it is adopted and something that cannot possibly contain the things provided for in the light of this amendment. Of course, it is about learning and working with learning, so theoretical teaching is practically associated with practical teaching and it is about training students. Whether these students will later be employed by these employers or some other employers, this is not relevant at this time in the debate of this amendment, because certainly these students will be trained and more employable than they were before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24434	Thank you. On the 15th amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasić, together by Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is another amendment that the SRS is expressing its view on the whole of this law. Articles 13 to 28 shall also regulate contracts if it is looked a little bit better and it is apparent that almost every other member refers to the subject matter of the contract. If something is so good, if some law is as good as you say here, and as MPs of the ruling majority claim, then why would it be something that is good, successful and quality to support with so many members of the law relating to contracts? We consider these contracts to be unfavourable for all parties to the contract, both for the employer and for the students. The students were told almost all day yesterday by my colleagues, and as far as employers are concerned, I also cited yesterday an illustrative example, where literally everything should fall into the water, your concept if we accept this, but I also think that this whole law, first of all, is brought about by some foreigners, because of some foreign company that will come in some future period, because literally none of our domestic companies and none of our domestic employers will be able to meet this. The employer is forced to study through work on his cost, which is simply the opposite of every logic. He has his own interests, and the interest is to make a profit. No one can make profit by training someone for their expenses, free of charge, and plus other immaterial costs. They won't be like that for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24436	The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24437	I thank the chairman, you have another woman's letter. It's not hard to remember. For example, the amendment of the New Party and the Club of Independent MPs to the article of the 15th Law on Dual Education is deleted, as well as the amendments to all members of this law, because we believe that the law is extremely harmful and should be withdrawn from the procedure, which we will do through our appeals and during today, Mr Minister, hoping that you will encourage yourself to do what you actually know is the right thing, but I say today do not let you be flattered by the applause of the majority, because you know that this is extremely harmful for our young generations and that by the law on dual education you are actually legalizing child labour as the cheapest labour force in the Republic of Serbia. Another piece of evidence is found in Article 15, as well as in several members concerned with this part of the law, and they talk about contracts in dual education that are concluded between school and employers. You have, in a member who treats the content of the contract, counted all the elements that contracts should contain, other than defining that these contracts should be public, therefore transparent. So, on the school's website, these contracts between school and employers, as far as our children are concerned, are being made public. This is an objection she addressed and marked by the Anti-Corruption Agency, which you have not taken into account, and do not ask you to take the steps of the Prime Minister, who so much as promotes transparency, when she is asked awkward questions, she says – I will not answer those questions. Don't do that. Come on, think again, whoever proposes some corrective amendment in this direction, but these contracts concerning children, for God's sake, Mr. Minister, must be public, not secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24438	The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24439	I thank you, Chairman. Also, People's Parliament, I have to join my colleagues who just spoke. Our amendment, as regards this member, as well as all other members, reads - is deleted. We already said yesterday that we believe that this law is terribly harmful, that it cannot be passed before the reform of the entire education system is done, starting with preschool education, through primary school, all the way to high school. We ourselves know that education and education improves our chances for better lives more than anything else. This, unfortunately, is not my thought, is said by Nelson Mendela, the famous African politician and philanthropist, so I ask you to take that thought while further considering this law. We have to be aware, we were already talking about it yesterday, and I have to repeat today, that education of children depends on the financial status of parents to a great extent. Parents in Serbia are terribly poor and we should not allow children to suffer, children to be victims of the material condition of their parents, to offer equal chances for all children because all children should be equal and all children should have equal chances. I appeal to you, Minister, as well as to the entire Ministry, but also to the rest of the public, and even to the MPs from the post, to adopt amendments concerning our free textbooks. Such an act, such an act gives equal chances for all children. We've reduced the bill to free textbooks for all children, just for example. in Belgrade, they cost as much as the masts and fountains. Jarbols and fountains are completely unnecessary, and our children's education is the most important thing that we can pay attention to, which we can improve and which, among other things, we have to improve in every way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24440	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24441	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to delete this member, because it is in fact revealing the essence and intention of adopting such a law, which is to turn Serbia into a country of cheap labour. In this article you have counted everything you want to protect the employer at the expense of the school and on the heart of the students. Nowhere in the obligation, in a contract signed by an employer with a school, it does not say whether he will pay the student contributions, whether he will have a job in the company or not the next day, but rather you want to practically transfer the burden of teaching students to private employers, but you have forgotten one other thing there, or perhaps you haven't, which is that private employers for those money they give to employees want work and want results in order to make a profit. Therefore, in this way, you are worshipping the representatives of large capital, which you are bringing to the state and giving them 10,000 euros per employee, so that they can get cheap labour in the form of students who are supposed to train themselves to do business in these companies, as a rule, the simplest jobs, which are usually the simplest of production. You do not have in Serbia, unfortunately, the "Mubadalu", which you have promised and which produces chips, that you will bring more to Serbia, I think in 2012-2013, you already have those companies that knit cables and other manipulative, simplest jobs. That's why you need such a workforce. Therefore, I propose that this member of the law be deleted because he directly endangers the rights of students in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24442	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24443	Thank you. Dear President, you have proposed the law that needs our young people, our children to learn to work through the work that they can live on tomorrow. I suggest that this proposed amendment be rejected because I think all that's good is for someone to criticise, as they say, is for hair in an egg. Let's reject this amendment, fellow MPs. Let us give support to the young, that they may learn to work and stick to him who works, do not be afraid of hunger, and do not be ashamed of it, for we should do it. I will vote against this proposed amendment as an MP for the United Peasants' Party, and I will vote for your law, because I think it is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24444	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Article 15 of the contract and number 4 of the employer's obligation to conduct learning through work on his own expense? That's what I asked in the discussion in principle, when she was. This is slightly odd to me. I can't understand the economic interest of the employer to receive an untrained worker, to give him an unbound amount of money, to pay him travel expenses, and that's supposed to give him a warm meal and that because he's untrained he has to have a trained worker give him as an instructor to train him? Where's the economic interest of the employer? It's mostly private firms or foreign investors, whatever. Here, I'm asking a question, if someone in the office would send me a high school student to train him, so why would I do it on my own expense, without knowing and having no security, because, of course, I can't have it, and I don't get angry when imposing an obligation on an employer by opposition representatives to receive a worker? So if he's not capable or if he doesn't finish properly, he can't take it. So, in this point here and what I was saying in principle, there is a huge legitimate fear in me that money will be put in there I don't know from which sources and then the Chamber of Commerce will be able to realise its interests through, since it is the Union of Employers, by favouring certain employers and that there can be an absolute core of corruption. So, explain to me how it's possible that the employer and what's his interest, we're talking about this is capitalism, we're talking about that these companies have to have an interest, which is his interest if he doesn't have any guarantee that I repeat again, as I said in the discussion in principle, the money will in some way touch either the state or foreign stakeholders, such as the six-million-euro GIZ or the Swiss Chamber of Commerce of two million euros, so that money will be poured into those pockets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24446	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24447	Of course, it's an essential interest to get a trained professional, because how is business going to develop with unprofessional and ignorant workers? When we're talking about the German model, I've just said many times that we haven't copied from either the Germans or the Austrians or the Swiss. And if we will, we can't. We have a lot more small and medium-sized enterprises in our structure and our model has to develop towards that base. Even President Vukic once said, when they were representatives of the Swiss government, that subsidies in this direction would go to small and medium-sized enterprises. We're just building a model, so it's something we'll definitely look at, what they're going to say for the next two years, because we have big companies, but not in the number that requires dual education in the classical sense of words. And from there, we don't have the opportunity to make a model of commitment for all other, small and medium-sized enterprises and employers and traineeships and all that. You can only see how much respect is placed in good intentions, and imagine if that were so hard to get in, I'd probably be stoned here by now. When it comes to the right of children to education, I would remind some of the MPs that we have more than 98% in primary education and more than 85% in high school. I don't know what to add to that. Did everyone get the right to go to school? Absolutely they are, and it has nothing to do with poverty. I will provide you with information on how many scholarships, credits the state of Serbia gives, how many dorms it gives, and it will work intensively, so I can't see, it's knocking on the open door. That's one phrase that's unproven, completely unfounded. When it comes to the story that Croatia is avoiding, Croatia is now interested in our model. The RSE Secretariat for Southeast Europe and how it is studying what we are doing in the region here, and otherwise, Slovenia did not model by German model, but by Austrian, and now it is doing its own model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24448	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24449	Thank you. The third day I listen to many false and pure manipulations from individual members of individual opposition parties, or willfully manipulate and deliberately create fear, primarily with students and their parents, or have indeed not read a single legal provision concerning the proposal for a law on dual education. First of all, I have to point out that it's absolutely not true that the transparency of these contracts has not been achieved. In fact, both schools and employers are under a legal obligation to sign a contract within eight days of the date of signature of the contract to the Ministry of Education, and employers are obliged to deliver the contract to the Chamber of Commerce. The education ministry is also under a legal obligation, as well as the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, to publish all these contracts on its official website. What is being planted on both the students and their parents is that it is work, or that it is a cheap workforce. In any case, it's not about cheap labour, it's not about work. This is about learning through work, and that is what needs to contribute to the additional quality of education and education, i.e. additional quality to combine the profession, to combine theoretical and practical knowledge and to give employers a functional and quality workforce. I must also point out that employers from 2003 to 2012, precisely because they did not have a qualified workforce, had to spend 3.5 billion euros for additional training, instead of immediately getting a qualified workforce that will earn in accordance with their expertise and ability. There's one more thing I have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24450	You're bringing the end, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24451	Dear students, every student in Serbia has the right to choose, has the right to choose, in accordance with their abilities and expertise, their...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24452	Thank you, colleague Vukojičić. The SNS parliamentary group no longer has time to discuss details. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24453	In the beginning, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to give you support on the appointment of an MP. Some probably didn't learn Gaja Petrovic's textbook, the logic of high school. So it's not a letter, it's an MP. The letter is spoken - the apostle Paul's letter to the Romans. In that sense, that word can be used. Now let me say about article 15. I think he's extremely well-conceived, that it's about mandatory elements of a dual education contract. The government has proposed 14 elements here, but they are three important of these 14, and these are the obligations of the school to realize learning through work and through work, the obligations of the employer on the other hand, the plan and the programme of learning through work, etc. They are lies, Mr. Minister, that this law legalizes the cheapest labour force. It's a hoax of opposition MPs. If it's about learning through work and work, then it's about vice versa, so it's about expensive labor, because it's going to work better for a student who has a certain practice and theory, than for one who only has a theory. Since this law came from the Law on the Foundations of the System, which we have adopted, whose initiator you and the Realiser were, I can really say that this is a first-rate teaching step for you as Minister of Education and you have done more in this sense in a year than all previous ministers in previous governments, when it comes to reforming education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24454	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24455	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about a contractual relationship. Could, Mr. Minister, workers be employers? Of course I can. I will give an example of “The First Five - year - olds, ” who had 16,000 workers. When they took her to be run by these happy ones, they ruined her. They put in the mother-in-law, these new hopes of the Wolf of the descendent of Jeremic, to place the mother-in-law as deputy director general. The factory fails, 16,000 employees are out of a job. And today they're talking about cheap labor, and they're lustrating workers. After the lustration, the miracles, the masters join together, Mr. Minister, the masters, the scavengers, the locksmiths, join together and buy some of the drive, several hundred of them, I think it's 700. You know it better than I do. And unlike these new hopes, the Wolf of the descendent of Jeremic, they are doing positively. Are they their employers? They did. Do they need dual education? They don't need a mother-in-law. The mother-in-law and her favorite and the wolf-in-law showed their descendants because they had ruined 16,000 jobs. Do they need dual education? Yes, they need heirs, they need masters, not 700, but that when they educate new ones, to work 1,000, 2,000, to transfer their knowledge to some new generation. That's why these contractual relationships can be between masters and masters. Masters can be masters and employers. This proved to be effective and effective, unlike these various lucky Wolf Jeremics. So, masters are masters even when they run the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24456	Thank you. On behalf of the 16th and 16th Amendment, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24457	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. So on Article 16, we have a situation where the Chamber of Commerce issues confirmation to companies that can enter into a contract with a school where children will do the hardest jobs. So, the employers themselves determine whether or not they can make a deal with a school where children will work and then tell me that this is a 21st century education where the Chamber of Commerce decides what the interest of students is. How can you convince us that the Chamber of Commerce, which is made up of employers, that these children will work, will take more care of children rather than employers of whom the Chamber of Commerce is made up? So, those who are more interested in making more money, you tell us that they will take more care of the children who will work in these businesses than those companies themselves. So, the company owner, the company owner, gives himself permission to conclude a contract with the school and you're telling me that he will take more care of those children who come to him at so-called. practice, i.e. on slave labor, and not on its profits, which are why the company is founded. So, this is an amendment that needs to be deleted, and this law is a law that every parent in Serbia will be ashamed of because they will eventually force their child to come into a situation where the employer chooses himself, makes a deal with the school, as you said by the old law, to take more care of those children than the employer himself. So it's ironic, it's a shame, and in this Serbia will never be able to make our society a fair society, we will never be able to explain to those children what you do to their parents as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24458	On the 16th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Vjerica Radeta, Tomislav LJubenović and Zoran Krasic, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24459	Thank you. As has been the case with all the amendments so far and with everything in the future on this bill, our amendment is being deleted. We stand firm in the view that the Law on Dual Education should not be passed and that the problems he is trying to solve can be solved in a completely different way. One of the suggestions is that children finish high school and do not have practical work and that is why we are introducing dual. Please, it can be solved in a completely different way. We have upper secondary schools, enough to make sure we reform them in such a way that children inside them have practice. What the legislator is doing is introducing a dual transfer of responsibility for organising educational work from the state to the private sector. The state is tasked with organising an education process at all levels of education and must not transfer it to the private sector, because as we see in this bill, there is a great danger that children are at risk of exploitation, of turning it into cheap labour and have no guarantee that after the completion of this dual, unfortunate education they will be able to keep their jobs in the workplace where they have learned how to work. In Finland, we have craftsmen and professional workers. They don't train them through dual, they train them in some other way. I suggest we turn to the Finnish model and get out of German.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24460	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24461	In principle, you've heard what I think, the New Party and the Independent MPs' Club on this bill. This debate on amendments is only an opportunity to present new evidence of the futility of this law. In Article 16(2), says – when choosing an employer, the school is obliged to manage the best interests of students. That sounds very nice and doesn't mean anything. What does the best interest of students, of all students together, of individual students or of one single student mean? Let's say, let's take an example from Serbia's life in the last five years. We've had two big lies, pardon promises, some say they're lies, that we're going to make this power make a chip factory in Pancheva, the investor is Mubadla, and others say that FAP from Pryto will turn into part of a major Sisu concert from Finland. Now imagine a guy who wants to enroll high school in dual education, and he's in a dilemma about whether he's going for an interest that's related to computers, or chips, or someone who's connected to truck production. What about him if it happens, like it happened, that there's nothing from either job or business, and those factories signed the so-called. Contracts with the Chamber of Commerce? What's going on, Minister, with this guy? He became a specialist in one area, at a high school level, say something about chips, and there's nothing from that factory. What's he gonna do tomorrow? What's he gonna do after five years? Does he have to go back to some new school of dual education or some course or get out of the country? It's a completely pointless thing. So no one guarantees you the sustainability of a job that that child is being educated for, and that's a risk for a whole generation. So the reform of secondary education is absolutely necessary, it should be mandatory, it should be directed so that knowledge is needed to start working on one job, and of course specialization everywhere in the world...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24462	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav LJubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24463	Thank you. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a dual education law. We have proposed this amendment that Article 16, like all other members of the bill, be deleted. This represents our position on this law and, in general, on what is defined in Article 16, which refers to the conclusion of a dual education agreement i.e. the conclusion of a contract between a school to conduct this kind of education and a potential employer where work would be carried out. Our general view of this whole law is that there are no conditions, that we don't have a business environment, that there's no capacity in the economy, because it's well known that the plants in the new companies are so-called. Foreign investors here in Serbia for a certain period of time, while the subsidies that the state of Serbia has given continue. Conditions for working with such employers are not something anyone could boast of. Workers are mostly employed at a certain time with a minimum labour price or below. The concept of the law itself is not good and does not constitute a way to reduce the number of unemployed. That is why we have proposed that all members of this bill be deleted and that they give up its adoption. Therefore, this Article 16 should also be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24464	The word of the People's Messenger is Krsto Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24465	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Ladies and Gentlemen National MPs, member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. I think the speaker here broke the Rules of Procedure a few minutes ago, more precisely brought out the falses about FAP from Priboj, so I'm going to try to tell you that it would have been proven. So, FAP's to UPPR, we're going to redefine debt-trust relations, safeguard FAP's legal sovereignty and continue production, FAP's a step away from the dedicated industry. He was on the verge of being taken over by a Finnish company, very successful. The Finns, when they came to Priboy, the first thing they asked for, didn't enter the FAP, asked for a tour of the technical school and conducted interviews with all the students. Unfortunately, those talks failed, but they never stopped working on FAP construction, on real grounds. So, in Priboj, we gave everything and this government to make, then a successful Finnish company, and someone gave everything and managed to build a successful wine company. I guess there's a difference... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24466	I thank my colleague Janjusevic. (Krist Janjušević: Allow just one more sentence. I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24467	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 103, paragraphs 7 and 8. A former colleague reported to the Rules of Procedure and entered the replica. Now, according to the 8th member's position, the chairman should take two minutes away from the SNS parliamentary group, which their parliamentary group has to discuss. You can't do that because they've spent all the time they've had at their disposal. And here we see why this is happening, why someone's answering the Rules of Procedure, and then they're talking about something that has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. With that, I suggest and call on Article 109, and I urge you to, since you can't take two minutes, give him a warning instead. Because article 109 says that the reminder is given to the MP among other things, and if other actions violate the order of the sitting or act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, as he did. So, I expect from you chairing that, in accordance with Article 109 of the last indent, you give notice, and more importantly, that in the future you stop every one when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, and it starts to abuse and not talk about the Rules of Procedure, but to talk about something completely different. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24468	My colleague Stamenkovic, I am not going to give a warning to my colleague Janjusevic, so I turned off the microphone when I saw what direction it was going and unlike some other colleagues, he was not chasing me here in the O.R. and I was trying physically to deal with me because his microphone was off. That's when you get warnings. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24469	Thank you. The proposal of our Parliament club is to delete a member of the 16th, for several reasons. First of all, why doesn't it say that the school closes the contract, at least with two employers, if they're in the territory of the city or the municipality where the school is? Another reason why this member should be deleted and what will schools, or her students, do where there is no adequate employer for them to attend? Whether they're going to go to another town or another municipality, or you're going to bring in as expressly as you're about to find a stranger whom you're going to honor with tens of thousands of euros to create an express factory, and then you're going to give him a labor force that will work for him at the price of 70% of minimum earnings. Of course at the expense of domestic economy, at the expense of education, not to mention that today as far as private employers in Serbia are concerned, I'm talking about our domestic entrepreneurs, you have 39600 blocked companies, 30% more than last year. Why? Because you do not recognize them that they should be developed in Serbia, that you need to develop domestic economy with domestic businessmen, but because you worship foreigners, and this law is actually something that you have prepared to continue to meet and serve strangers. Today, the blockade of businessmen is two and a half billion, domestic in Serbia, and this law will neither help education nor domestic businesses, but will only go a step further in creating Serbia as a country of cheap labour, which would seem to be our only advantage if you try with this kind of economic policy compared to countries in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24470	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24471	Here's to re-explain this category 70% of the minimum. If the student works two days a week for six hours, it's 12 o'clock, and the week is 40 o'clock. If he receives out of 25,000 withdrawals as allowance 70%, it's 17800 or 300, somewhere. It is not worth the employer of this methodology. Then he'd pay his students a lot more expensive if they worked real than they trained for work. This is just a good intention for him to see, record and keep those boys or girls. No one asks the question here if the employer is someone who has the right to choose. Well, it is. He mentioned MP Risticevic earlier what it looked like when the state was a manager. For example, the Rakovic Base, where I worked a good part of my work century, was created by the university, at the time everyone laughed at. That's the FON at the time, which was a need. There was no manager at the time, and there was supposed to be an elite group of people. The master had excellent, perfect engineers and masters. Here, FON celebrates tomorrow for 50 years and I'm honored it's one of our best colleges on all the criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24472	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24473	Thank you. Well done, FON. Do you know what it's like to earn a graduate master from FONA? Forty thousand. (Alexandra Tomic: Depends on where. ) In a foreign company dealing with telecommunications in the 21st-century cream sector, a master from the FON in Belgrade earns 40,000 dinars. (Alexander Martinovic: In which company? ) Chairman, I'm asking you to warn your colleagues across the street to refrain from throwing I'm not going to pronounce the name of the company.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24474	My friend Gjurich, I beg you. You've come forward by amendment, you don't speak by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24475	By amendment, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24476	Don't say it by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24477	I'd also ask, here, I'd also ask, if we had a German model of dual education contracts, why didn't we adopt the same thing that exists in Germany, that the student's first-to-second, third- and fourth-grade income is growing? Why did we nail her to 70% of the minimum? In Germany, a fourth-grade student earns more dual education than in first grade? We've got it nailed. As for a colleague from across the street, he'd ask them not to win and not to mention the bankruptcy managers. I understand that a colleague of Radulovic is always on their mind, but let them refrain and behave politely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24478	The 16th amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24479	Honorable Vice President, this law is about a dual education contract, but first of all, on the obligations of a school that concludes a dual education agreement with one or possibly with several employers. During the election, what is very important, the school will be guided by the interests of the students and here are the interests of the students in the first place. It's not true that opposition MPs are trying to tell us that the Chamber of Commerce has only its own interests. The interest of the Chamber of Commerce is the interest of our students, the interests of employers as another subject are the interests of our students and the interests of the school as a third factor in this process of dual education are the interests of students. What does that mean? To win in the most modern way trained students whose productivity will indeed be at a high level on the one hand, and on the other hand a solid basis for further education. If we're being framed by the person who was the worst student in the history of Third High School, respected parents, then don't trust them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24480	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about the best interest of students. The best interest of students is to know that they work, to produce and to perfect themselves through life. There's no greater interest than knowledge. I don't understand, and I'm talking about the phenomenon these masters will end up with, the phenomenon is called "the stealulović Del Boy Company". This phenomenon of the bankruptcy mafia will no longer be possible when masters take matters into their own hands, when they acquire trades, when those who wish to extend, acquire university education, so when they become masters and managers, so when they know their jobs, they will not speak – living digitization, in agriculture. That's what we heard yesterday. Agriculture that gives surplus 2.7 billion. Our best business branch that will give more. Imagine a person who's against agriculture looking at beans. That's almost amazing. Then this person keeps coming up with something in the ball and he keeps raising his Rules of Procedure, thinking it's the ball. Such a phenomenon, I don't understand. The best interest of students is that if they are schooled for wine growers, they do not get from the country 550,000 euros. They don't need an apartment of 500 thousand euros, 200 square meters, I think Koroman was bought, my fellow winemaker, that's what farmers have. It is not their interest to chat 550,000 euros and restitution land, and yet to be paid by the state for 500 to cost the state a million. Their interest is to bring a million to the state. That's why it's also the best interest of students to make such a kind of contract, to educate them, to be able to work manually, to be top masters and to benefit their family, their state and their society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24482	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24483	Thank you. Article 17, which, like all other members, we have a proposal to delete, because we believe that the law on dual education is bad, that it brings no benefit to parents, nor to the system, nor improves knowledge in Serbia, that it was created in agreement with an experiment of the Swiss Chamber of Commerce, that it is not authentically Serbian and that there is no way that in two years, when it starts to apply, that we try to measure what it will give in 15 years. He's handsome for folklore, and for this kind of exchange, who can think of something to talk about, and that's healthy, people shake out, things get crazy, but then it gets easier. But it has nothing to do with the education of children for any profession, nor for those who will be on the list of dual education. Article 17 asks the school and the PKS to publish on its official website basic information on the plan and programme of teaching and learning and other information of importance for learning through work within 15 of the completion of the dual education contract. What other information? How is the contract published? This law is, even if we accept that the Swiss know what to do and how to regulate dual education in Serbia, even if we accept here in members who define contracts and others, we see a series of shortcomings that are inadmissible. Any kind of defense that our criticism of poor dual education is related to any event from the past, here I will make it easy for you not to have to use folklore anymore, where in the 2000s, when in the 1990s, there was a golden age of Serbia, GDP grew 4.5% annually, banks were respectable, traveling everywhere, there was no war, so we couldn't even participate in the war, so there were no war crimes, there were no days without prosperity in Serbia. In the 1990 ’ s, there was a mention of well - being and happiness in which people enjoyed it. The majority MPs agree, and then somehow, in some years, after the 1990s, there's DS with the SPS coalition partners, the SDP Rasim Ljajic, SVM, to ruin all that prosperity, and now to be obsessed and to come to one another as a coalition partner of the SNS, the same people, the same party. If it hadn't been for that prosperity in the 1990s, we might have been able to talk here, not use folklore, mocking each other, disqualifying people, insulting women, instead of dialogue on an area that's important to several thousand children, two years from now. If that makes it easier for you, here you are, in the 1990s, it was well-being and all the problems were created in 2001, and so are the ones we have with education. Denial of reality, sweetness of soul, will not change that reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24484	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24485	So, once again, mentioning the party as a basis, but thank you very much, a great opportunity to comment on what has been heard in the debate so far, and probably looking for a sentence or at least a question on our part. Of course, it's not at all a question of whether or not you need this hall, this congregation folklore, mockery, insults, attacks on women. As far as we're concerned, it's more than clear. Of course not. Just a little note, let's not even do these things on the other side, or tolerate them, encourage and encourage them. If it's not on that side, it won't be there at all. I guess that's more than clear. As for the 1990s and 2000s, we have more than a clear memory of them. Thank you for your concern. Among other things, and that's why we make sure that memory doesn't fade in the citizens who are following this, just because we think it's important to remember things right from the beginning, just as they were and respect everyone's role in all this. Unfortunately, those who sit on the other side, which someone's role in all of this was not so honorable, that's not the thing we're worried about. But a matter of obligation for an employer to hire someone tomorrow. Just a brief comment, since it's been mentioned several times today. What are these employers' obligations now? How big and strong is the obligation that exists now, so it will be compromised when we adopt the law on dual education? That someone can explain, so maybe it makes sense to repeat that thesis over and over again. No one will explain, I tell you again, as they will not explain exactly how much the subsidy is granted to domestic and how many foreign legal entities. Clearly, we will not hear that answer during this session. That in the countries we look up to, no one would pay a student below the minimum. One award-winning question for today, what is it that brings to the top conclusion of this debate, to tell us how much is it, for example, the minimum cost of working in Switzerland? Here, that to answer us. I think the answer for them will be more than interesting. As far as I'm concerned, and I'm finishing Mr. Chairman, the roles of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, read at last that strategy you're talking about, you might find what you're interested in right there.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24486	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. On the 17th amendment, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Marina Ristic and Vjerica Radet, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksić and Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the same text. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24487	Article 17 speaks of the publication on the official website, I would say nothing, because you say that schools and the Chamber of Commerce, within a certain period, publish on their website basic information on the plan and programme of teaching and learning and other information of importance for learning through work. And if we weren't against the adoption of the Dual Education Act, the SRS MPs would have put a serious remark on this 17-member, because what you predicted was to be published on the official website won't give anyone any serious information. We have a problem here with contracts that close schools with the help of the Chamber of Commerce, schools and employers, and we have a real-life problem. That's what we've been telling you, Minister. When it comes to directors, of course not all of them, but unfortunately quite a number of directors who have become managers, they are seriously entering what-what kind of dealings in the field of field trips and buying textbooks. You must know that. You probably know a lot more names than we know them, though we know a lot. But when that dual education happened, the choice of that employer fell to the director again, and there will be dealings again. That's not good. Maybe it doesn't sound very nice to talk about school principals this way, but we're talking about real life. I'm sorry for those directors who do their job fairly, that now they don't know who they are, but we need to put order into all educational institutions and we need to start either from narrowing down the manager's authority or from more serious penalties, especially fines to be subject to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24488	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Branka Stamenković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24489	Thank you. The responsible state will organise the process of education, from pre-school through primary school, down to high school, by taking responsibility for the organisation of teaching itself, and not by transferring its responsibility to the private sector, by handing over underage employers to make them a cheap workforce, such as this proposal for a dual education law, which we insist on withdrawing from the process and to reform secondary education in a different way, but only after the reform starts from the foundation, from preschool, which must be made available to everyone, through basic school, where we must stop as a state to transfer responsibility for education of children from state to parents, as well as the cost of coboys of free education from country to parents, but to provide their children fully covered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, starting from textbooks. The MP group "Enough Has Been" calculated that it is necessary to separate only 0.15% from the Republika Srpska budget on an annual basis in order to get free textbooks from all children in primary schools in Serbia. That would relieve the parents of that terrible financial blow in September. In that sense, we call on the legislator to go into fundamental reforms, the first ones we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24490	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24491	Article 17 is a continuation of this contract story that allegedly guarantees something. It says: “The schools and the Chamber of Commerce, no later than 15 days after the date of conclusion of the dual education contract, are published on their official website... “ Who, on which page? He writes – schools and Chamber of Commerce on his page. Do they have a shared website? Or is he on his pages? "They publish information on the plan and programme of teaching and learning and other information of importance for the implementation of learning through work. “ But no contract is published, or at least it is not seen from this article as an obligation. So first let's see how many websites there are, one, two, three or one in common? Second, why isn't the contract published? Well, because it's bad and that's why it's not being revealed. I would love to, since we have been listening all day to the successes of this great industrialization of Serbia under Aleksandra Vukic and the current ruling furniture, to be delivered to us, it is not a question for the Minister of Education, but let's say for the Minister of Labour, what are the average salaries in these wonders of companies that have been established in the last three, four, five years. It would be very interesting to see what awaits these children who need to go to dual education. I'd like it to skip 22,000, 23,000 dinars, but it's hardly gonna be able to get an average salary higher, because that's the reality. Drag the law, because it's already said in Serbia that parents started threatening children and when they're not doing something right, they tell them - I'll send you to dual education if you're not good. Therefore, I ask you to prevent violence against children and so on. The question is, is it possible for someone to finish some education for a highly specialized job and then change the place of residence and go to a place where there's no factory for which he's been educated? It's a question of freedom of movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24492	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Right to replication, mentioning SNS President, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24493	Well, since we seem to have come to a period of time when questions are being asked, is that right, that's how I understood this? Of course it's complete nonsense to do something below minimum prices or at a minimum price level. There is a definition of how much something must amount to, and how much of the sea is at least above those minimum prices. That's what anyone who's ever made an effort to get a little interested in the problem. The average salary in these companies that you are so interested in is also famous and is published right there in these weekbooks that all the worst and darkest ones write about Alexander Vukic and the SNS, so I guess for that reason you believe them. They say that the average salary is so much to settle on an annual basis on those 12 to 14 months that we're talking about here to those who want to hear and understand, with what the state is investing on average. More than clear, pure story. But, on the other hand, since we're in these issues, here I am, for example. wonder how many previous speakers people have hired in their vineyard, or wine cellar, or what has he already had? How much average pay did he give to people there? Were they at minimum-level and or were they better? How much better were they? How many times have they been higher than the average salary in his day? How many investors did he bring? How many investors helped domestics and how many foreign ones, and how many total jobs? What are the salaries at all these jobs? How many times have they been higher than the average salary in Serbia in its time? When all this is summed up and undermined together, how would you assess your own participation in the devastion of the state with hundreds of thousands of lost jobs? How many hundred thousand less would we have lost if he hadn't been so successful in those programs? Well, that's what I'd like to hear right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24494	Now Mr. Orlic has asked you a question, you have a basis for replication. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24495	Thank you for all these questions. First, I founded a private company in 1988 under the Law of Associated Labour. It was called the Association Work Contracting Organization, for those who think they know something about law and economics. It worked for about 15 years, somewhere between eight and 15 workers. Everyone had salaries that were three times the average salary in Serbia today. Through four private companies, owned or co-owned, into Serbia's budget from 1988 to two or three years ago, when I re-entered politics, close to threem euros in taxes, plus wages, plus everything else was paid. At the time of privatisation from February 2003 to February 2004, and I bear responsibility for what was before privatisation, it means for 2002, many companies were privatised, where today's wages are two to three times higher than in any company that has been managed in the last four or five years. Let's say, the new company that was founded, the first greenfield investment, of course the best in Serbia's history, is, but really not because someone is lying, the Bol Beijing, which was made at that time, which is working phenomenally today and which is the leader of the region's market and beyond, which some would like to say. What's privatized, you want Beopetrol, you want the tobacco sector, any of it was an example of that time, and today, it's certainly better than these defamatory big ventures that are happening. So thank you for this question. I'm proud of what's been done. Foreign investors were coming. I am proud of my contribution to the Republic of Serbia's budget in the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24496	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24497	Indeed, the chairman, in violation of Rule 107's Rules of Procedure, is insulting the dignity of this parliament. Can't someone who doesn't have any education to talk about education reform, it's totally amazing. I'd ask you not to allow this kind of thing anymore. The entire population is being insulted, this parliament is being insulted. In doing so, the only good thing he's said is that in his time, robbery privatisations were carried out. It was this very "Beopetrol" that could say that it was privatised and that some stations outside the country had been arranged for the sale of Beopetrol. So I would really ask you to tell us how many people have hired and how many people have benefited from all that was given. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24498	Mr. Djukanovic, you pointed to a violation of article 107. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24499	Members of 107 and 108, for the simple reason that you allow SNS MPs to impose views that the MP, from whatever party he comes from, cannot speak of any law until they give authority that he is indeed an MP who is allowed to say something about it. So, every MP in this house, of course, is there to talk about laws, to fight in accordance with the Constitution and the law for his views, his amendments, his draft laws, his amendments and his additions. So it's our only obligation to be here today. You can't tell anyone if he's educated or uneducated. As you know, you have to have a primary school so you can run and become a MP. What is the situation with those who bought diplomas, those who bought their master's or doctoral works or plagiarized their scientific papers, do they really consider it qualified them to be more involved in the laws than someone who had achieved their education fairly or who had gained their assets honestly, like Mr. Zivkovic? I ask you to react in a way that you simply put into the same plane of all the MPs sitting in this house, because it is very important that we have a minimum of respect for each other, unless you want us to completely destroy this home and that it really loses every sense and that it ceases to exist. If you tell anyone she can't talk about some law, I think it's the collapse of this institution, which may be the last one left, and it's not working very well right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24500	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. You ordered, Mr Bozovic, on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. Speaking of the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure, you pointed out, among other things, that one of the MPs cannot speak and that he is not allowed to speak at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You were talking about opposition MPs, which, of course, is not true, because you've just had the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You did it in two minutes, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. We had an exchange of views and open dialogue here. No one wanted anyone, nor did he intend to prevent what the agenda of today's session was. Yes, we had an open dialogue of positions and opposition, which, I think, is very good and it should exist, it's a democratic confrontation of opinions. So I don't think I've hurt a member of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Here you are, Mr. Zivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24501	Rule 27, it is that you, as chairman, are in charge of the application of this Rules of Procedure. There was one attempt by one of the MPs on the other side to insult me. Of course, the attempt was unsuccessful, primarily because of who tried it, and secondly, if it is important for the Serbian public, for dual education, for the future of Serbia, and for I don't know what the topic is today... You want to stop, something's cramping on the other side? Now there's a lot of cramps on the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24502	Just tell me what the injury is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24503	So if that's important... Do you think this is a speech atmosphere?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24504	Comrade Zivkovic, explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was contained in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24505	So, the injury is that you let a failed attempt to offend me about my education. To inform an unhappy colleague and the Serbian public that I had completed my education 35 years ago, so if someone wanted to object to me, I'm not one of those who ends it when they're pushed by the wind of power. I am not among those who claim that they do not need an elementary school to be MPs, which I completely agree with, and there is 126 least obvious evidence of that in the Serbian parliament. As for my comment on that...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24506	Comrade Zivkovic, will you please speak to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24507	Please let me tell you what's wrong with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24508	I, of course, allow you, but in what did I hurt the Rules of Procedure? You have to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24509	By not preventing the unfortunate attempt of an unfortunate messenger from offending me. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. Article 27 defines that you are responsible for the implementation of the Rules of Procedure and I demand that this be voted upon. All the information about my business, about my school, if you're interested... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24510	Thank you. Mr. Zivkovic, as I understand it, you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead. It is not up to me to take care of your education, but to hold a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and respect the Rules of Procedure, which I do, of course. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24511	This time, the chairman, I point out Article 103 of attitude 1 because you had to let him advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure right after the injury you committed, and you violated it. I really didn't want to offend anyone here, nor did I have that intention at all. I was talking about something that's a big deal. I didn't ask you to forbid anyone to talk. I just pointed out that it's a little offensive that someone who doesn't have some kind of education can tell us about education reform. That's all I was talking about. It's free to talk to anyone, but the fact is that the gentleman in question was offended himself because he obviously recognized that it was a cruel truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24512	My colleague Djukanovic, I couldn't hurt Article 103 of Position 1 because my colleague Zivkovic directly appeared and pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but several other MPs appeared before him, so I only respected the order. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24513	Article 103(7) So, what the previous colleague just said, it doesn't stand in the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't stand in the law, there's no basis in the Constitution for such a thing. So, to forbid someone, because he, as a previous speaker, has estimated that someone is educated or not educated and honors you whether you allow someone to talk about anything is complete nonsense and trust me on something that can absolutely not stand. I really advocate that Marijan Rističević is talking about this law, regardless of not being educated. I think every MP has the right to talk about it, whatever's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24514	My colleague Bozovic, you cannot qualify by name and by last name, and you cannot continue to do so through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you cannot directly address the MPs who did not participate at all in this debate and qualify them in this way. (Balsa Bozovic: I just turned around and I think he has the right to speak too. I understand what you mean and everyone has the right to address it, but just because each of the MPs has the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to get a word, and has the right and legitimate right to their position, and I cannot predict what that attitude will be. My colleague Djukanovic made his personal point, and I am telling you again, it is not for me to assess the education of the MPs, it is up to me to hold a session of the National Assembly. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24515	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are all equal here. This is not the Serbian Academy of Science, so that academics, the type of Balsha, are great knowers, those who have never sweated in their lives, let alone drunk the sweat of water. I'm advertising Article 108 and Article 109, you're supposed to pay attention because he tried to run the session and you should have taken the warning measure to give him a warning, but I appreciate your permissiveness. He tried to insult me by my education. It's on the agenda for dual education. I, as someone who went to school from 72 to 76, to the Machine Technical School, which was the most difficult school in India, then the higher economic high school, had to go through a partly dual education in order to know what all the craftsmen were doing in order to serve them with technologies, etc. I've been through this dual education, I've worked in agriculture, and I've sweated more than once, and so I can't have any insult from him or from Tanja Jordovic who said that what I'm talking about dual education should tie the cans to my tail. I don't have that tail, and especially not yellow. So I believe I'm fully qualified, and the minister is here, to talk about what I've been through, and he's not. My father didn't finish at the Bona fides cafe Law School, his college was a public private partnership, it was partly a state-owned, partly private one at Vodnelicka, members of his party. I didn't have an accident to go through such an education, and that's why I don't feel any insult from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24516	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24517	Thank you, Chairman. I would only briefly advertise Article 27(2), which says that the President of the National Assembly, in this case and as chairman, is taking care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly is what only the name tells her. It would be good for this society to have MPs in the National Assembly of All Educational Profiles and All Levels of Education, because in this way the National Assembly would paint the state of society and the state of the people who, in the elections, are fair and democratic, we hope to welcome such ones, I delegate the Members of the People to represent the interests of the citizens here. The Rules of Procedure come from the Law on the National Assembly, and the Law on the National Assembly comes from the Constitution. Since it is desirable, as I said we have all educational profiles here, and since it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution, I find it unacceptable for any of the people's jobs to assess whether any other MP is sufficiently educated, therefore competent to discuss any subject. Well, I'd ask you as chairman to react to that because every educational level and every educational profile, if they're honest and honest, if they're not based on plagiarities and stealing other people's knowledge, every such education is for respect and for a job that's done on such an education, if it's done honorably without a set tender, abuse of the influence of political and similar. Any such work is respected whether it is based on education acquired in high school, dual, gymansian, university or doctoral education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24518	All of this has to do with article 27 and what happened in the National Assembly? Yes, but if you understood that first part of the exposure when you pointed to a violation of Rule 27's Rules of Procedure, what you were talking about is exactly what I was talking about. But on the other hand, you will agree with me that it is impossible to predict what MPs will talk about through the breach of the Rules of Procedure but also when we talk about the points of the agenda. I'll respect your appeal, thank you, colleague Đurić. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) A colleague of Orlic has been waiting for the replica for a long time. Do you want to talk? You've been waiting a long time because there's been a series of violations of the Rules of Procedure and just to respect the order now. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24519	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I will also watch that I respect my side, so that there is no basis for spreading the story further, but this last thing I heard, believe me, I can't help but comment. So this was the highlight of hypocrisy today. Really, the highlight. It's all nice and it's all true, it's honestly taught, it's all finished, the Assembly is lay, everyone has the right to speak on every topic, everything perfect, but where does it tell us those who have fed up with God and the people by telling them that they can't be some MP president of a congregation board because they're not professional enough, because they haven't finished something they think they should finish. And now they've come to their senses, and they're giving lessons to the others that every messenger can do on any subject. Well, it is just us talking all the time. If we've reached someone, we'll see. We'll see, I'm not much of an optimist, but we'll keep track of the day. I actually wanted to thank you for not answering my questions earlier. So, I didn't hear about how many hundreds of thousands of lost jobs we're doing better because of what he knew just didn't seem to be doing much alone. I didn't hear how phenomenal the average salary of his credit. Here, to show all the good will of this world, to respect those ten people who are employed by 80 and some, so that I suppose they were also employed in these vineyards. So, half a million people on the street, and ten people helped. If that's the balance of success, as far as I'm concerned, cap down. In that sense, and I'm not surprised, what people with that level of understanding and expertise are in every sense able to advertise today through some programme for Belgrade that all contracts in the city of Belgrade will be put online. Here's how much to win tomorrow, and when asked why you didn't do it in your time, you know what they say - the Internet wasn't so developed in our time, so we couldn't. Well, how serious it is and everything else we can hear from them. So I would have with this if you'd agreed to end it, they'd have said enough about themselves and the last sentence, Mr. Chairman, culture and education was just enough to just wait... Please, let me finish. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24520	I thank my colleague Orlic. The word has a People's MP... (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. No, you have no basis for replication. No, we're not playing. (Zoran Zivkovic: It is my duty to explain. Mr. Zivkovic, you will not lead this debate to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The question was asked by you, please for a moment, you had two more minutes to answer. A colleague of Orlic had an extra two minutes, so now we're back on the agenda and the word is proposed by the amendment of Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24521	I thank the chairman. Our proposal is to delete Article 17 because, like the other members of this dual education law, it does not achieve the essence of what direction the educational system in Serbia should be systematically resolved. Of course, this article once again shows that the Chamber of Commerce is the one who assesses the employer and who is the bearer of this project. If it is the Chamber of Commerce, it is clear that this is not about any improvement in the situation in Serbia's education system, but about improvement in the situation of employers who will gain cheap labour. Furthermore, if we look at the experience of what the Chamber of Commerce was doing in some earlier years, one of the ministers of the five-, six-year economy changed in the last five years, which was president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, he boasted in his work that he had shut down over 500 businesses in Serbia in a year. So that was his reference after which you replaced him, probably not adequate, but this, unfortunately, did what maybe you shouldn't have done if we were thinking that dual education should be some kind of practice. You have today, through cities across Serbia, shut down all serious companies from IMT, mentioned through the "First Five-year-old" in Tristenik, which you shut down on January 1st 2016 and many other companies in Serbia, which may have been enterprises that could be in this category of employers for dual education. Today these employers will be different foreign companies, mentioning which as their product have wires and cables as some components for industries around the world. And that's the way and that's actually the way you see Serbia's economy and employment in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24522	Thank you, colleague Alexic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24523	I thank the chairman. About a second and a third day, both through amendments and through debate in principle, the opposition promotes only one thing, which is the devising of the law, which cannot devise the essence of what is achieved by this law, that is, the goal that this law achieves. If they do, and I'm sure they can't make it, because dual education isn't our creation and nobody invented hot water with dual education. Given the fact that it exists in all decently decorated states that pay attention to the education of our children, or children in general, then no one here has been able to reason or will succeed. What is very good, Minister, and I think you recognize that, too, is the fact that employers today are certainly not the ones who were employers from 2002 to 2012, when we had exactly what the opposition points to under one criminal law of privatisation, which is the exploitation of labour, which, unfortunately, as a labour force has ceased to exist, because hundreds of thousands of people ended up on the streets. Today, in a discussion by an opposition MP, we heard praises, how some companies were successfully privatized. So let's speak the language of truth, and let's tell our parents today what it was since 2002, and what it is today. The Magnochrom factory in the Kingdom had several thousand employees. According to the same Privatisation Act, those who literally chose to call for the state from 2002 to 2012, devastated the Magnochrom factory by brothers from India, leaving the city of Magnochrom, and leading to the fact that the Kingdom remains a city in which the economy dies. That's what happened in many other cities, Mr. Minister. This was also happening in Novi Pazar, where around several thousand people lost their jobs in the Holding "Vojin Popovic". This was also happening in Priboj where a large number of epoxy and polyester employees were also out of work thanks to the famous Privatisation Act and the successful privatisations that are now glorificed here. This happened both with Uzic and the rocket transport company, where several hundred people were out of work. If so, then today both our children and our parents can be happy that there are no more such ones, that these privatisations are our past and that these privatisations in no way can be the light or mirror that the opposition today points to by devising this law. Therefore, you have the support that through this concept that you have set up, where deliberately children are offended and simplified by the story by undermining students as a cheap workforce, without any undertone in the implementation of the educational programme, the sub-plans where class teachers will follow the training of children and their professional training, where their work will be assessed in practical terms, where they will be monitored, practically on the spot in the engine, behind the tool, it is clearly not observed, that perception of the opposition does not exist. It is important to point out that children are treated as slaves, that it is important to bind to some 15, 16, 20,000 dinars. That's not the point. Whether a student will be paid or not is not essential whether he acquires practical knowledge or not. If he doesn't gain learning, theoretical knowledge has no value and that's the basic goal. That is why I propose that the amendments, and especially the last amendment proposed, be not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24524	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24525	I would like to make some comments on some of the MPs' statements, in response to them and the public. Of course, we are very aware that we have good and bad school directors, but recently in this house we adopted the Law on the Education and Education System, where penalties are also very drastic for the directors who break the rules. The entire director's activities throughout Serbia are currently being maintained and all elements of the law are being commented and explained. If this does not lead to order, the system and the loss of the director's functions are simplified. But he's in training. At present, training is done with the best, very popular measure, only two-day training. These are the people who are extremely best rated, so we have to reward them in some way through that measure. When we talk about Finnish masters, so there's all the high school in Finland and they're already leaving that concept, but it's just a relationship as you're going to call something. I could have reformed high school and invented, say, the concept of technasium, that's what we call all technical schools. We kept some national identity, when it comes to national high school and national high school and this, as counterpart Zivkovic says – it was a threat once, you'll go to work for me. Now, whether it's dual or it's this one, it's an old flossula in Belgrade. However, it doesn't matter that it does, but I think that many solutions in the Law on the Education and Education System have been established as essential principles, and the relationship between theory and practice has always been important in education. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24526	He mentioned you in a positive context, you didn't understand. To the 17th amendment in the same text, MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic brought it. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24527	Dear Vice President, this is a member of the law, in which the school and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, are published on the official website of the basic information contained in the contract no later than 15 days after the date of conclusion of the dual education contract. A very important example, according to opposition MPs, is also the best personal example of the SNS, our minister, Minister Mladen Sarcevic, who received one of the most prestigious awards in the world for the realization of certain results on education and education. When it comes to, Mr. Minister, dual education, you are now told by a man who realized it in 1983 until 1990, who is next to dual education, this to reassure the opposition MPs, and formed a factory, a school with three lines of machine work, casting, sewering, etc. I am happy that my students are former, and now one of the best managers, not only in Serbia, but also in Europe. One of them in Belgrade is Petar Matic, owner of Usce. It is not true, and the trick is that the punishment of a student is if they attend dual education, on the contrary. However, who advocates and who says so? For example, those who said that the school in this high home was not a educational institution, those who produced a yogurt vaccine and water, because if they hadn't produced it, it would have been the students from the veterinary school.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24528	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The amendment is proposed by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Chamber of Commerce, the public announcement, there was a grudge here from my fellow farmer, where his dual education would have been announced, given that he had finished his evening school with dinner, which was a better dinner, which was better grades. I hope it was posted somewhere in some coffee shop.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24530	Let's talk about the amendment, please, to article 17. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24531	It's an amendment. The Chamber of Commerce, where cafes are published, and the Internet is published. We've had a grudge against the publication of those whose evening or evening education has never been published. So, I'm a witness that the Chamber of Commerce reacted and publicly published information on the master in the tobacco industry Nis and said – masters are asking for information to be published that the tobacco industry Nis is worth a billion and 200 thousand. My fellow farmer sold for 450 million for a $12 million commission. That's what the masters said to be published in the Chamber of Commerce and it's good to publish here even in dual education. Contract and information to be public. You can't have delicious bread if you don't have a baker, a miller, you can't if you don't have a farmer's tractor. You can't have a tractor if you don't have scrapers and rodents. You can't say "wow agriculture" and ask, I don't know, to publish the number of students' shoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24532	Thank you, colleague Rističević. On behalf of members 18 and of the 18th Amendment, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to Article 18 that is talking about the termination of the contract by the employer. You know, a few days already, since the debate in principle, when we have outlined the basic problems that apply to this law, and all these days about amendments, we have outlined on a few things the importance of the error and harmfulness of this law. Since this state and this government presented dual education as a priority, instead of reforming education, innovation, interest in the future, etc., wrong goals, which are not only wrong, but also incorrect, we talked yesterday about you being completely amazing for the goals of dual education predicting that students will gain confidence to express their own opinions, students who make these cheap labour, frightened, frightened, quiet, who will work in some jobs, who will leave. So, today we come and now we're talking about the termination of the contract by the employer and I ask you to concentrate together on point 4) which says that the employer has the right to terminate the contract when unforeseeable technological, economic or organisational changes occur with the employer who prevents, makes it difficult or significantly more difficult to change the performance. Who determines that the circumstances provided for in paragraph 4 of this article have occurred? Who is it on behalf of the employer who confirms the credibility of the employer saying “to tell you something, dear children, that we have used as a cheap workforce for the past year, there have been some unforeseen technological, economic or organisational circumstances”? Who is it that determines that such circumstances have actually arisen and what is happening to these children? This applies to the following members, that the school is then obliged to find a new employer, which under a) may not exist, who may have left the country under b) if he did a similar job, because you stopped giving him subsidies, which under v) may not work on technologies, machines where children at the first employer worked. So, I welcome the opportunity for you to consult now. Citizens, students, and parents expect you to answer these questions. You know, when you say our arguments are false and you can't disprove them, when we come to contractual obligations that decidently and taxively state what obligations are between the employer and the students, they deny everything that you've said before.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24534	Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Seselj, together by Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, jointly Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24535	This is an amendment to Article 18. A bill that tries to regulate something that has the title "Connect termination". When you look at this member, then you see that the term "contract" is taken as a format for one piece of paper, but you forget that the contract is a law between the parties, and what's listed as possible reasons for the termination of the contract, there so that we see something else, that the promoter doesn't know what nothing is, and what's destruction. Obviously, it's kind of complicated to look like something, but now I'm going to remind the promoter that in this concept of dual education, we should also provide qualified drivers and qualified construction engineers and other machines and now tell me that in dual education, a child of 15, 16 and 17 years of age is going to practice in a traffic company and that he's getting paid 91 dinar working hours that he spends there, and the employer has absolutely no use of it, because he can't drive on the street because he doesn't have a driver't have a license or a construction machine handler? They're getting something that's internal confirmation that it's been trained. He's 45 hours old, shaking hands with the Hitachi-Man machine. Each manufacturer has its own product sales and special training, which are some modern machines that change dozens or hundreds of workers. This system is inconclusive, and that is the fundamental observation. That sounds nice, but he's practically gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24536	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24537	Thank you. The Single Members' Club envisioned eradicating this member for the following reasons. Mr. Sarcevic, let's act like business people protecting the interests of their contractors in this contract. I hope we agree that our side in this contract is a school, or still a student who attends that school. For this reason, we really do not understand why the legislator puts himself in the role of the employer's protector? In addition to other cases, this article was prescribed that the employer would terminate the dual education contract due to unforeseen technological, economic or organisational changes. The school should be the one who gets the right to break the contract if these situations arise. So we can't protect the other side of the contract if we're serious business people. We have to protect our contractual side and I ask you to think that way. In all of this law, all members are ordered to terminate the contract by the employer, and only after that is the end of the contract by the school and for the contract of learning through work and for the dual education agreement. The employer can meet all conditions, that he is not in the process of liquidation, that he is not in the bankruptcy process, that his accounts are not blocked, but he is not paying his workers. Here, we have this case with the MB "Ratko Mitrovic" in Slavija, which is being carried out. These workers didn't get their salaries, they didn't have health insurance, they didn't have their books certified. What's just going on with kids coming to companies like that? Maybe they didn't pay off the workers because they didn't get the money from the investors, but we don't care. We're interested in what's going on with the kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24538	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24539	Thank you. Therefore, Article 18, which defines the termination of the contract by the employer, should be seen in the context of Article 15, which defines the mandatory content of the contract. It is written there that the contract must contain reasons for the termination and termination of the contract, but it is not stated, for example, any mandatory cancellation deadline. It says here at point 4 that the employer may terminate the school contract if the employer has an unforeseeable technological, economic or organisational change that prevents, hinders or significantly alters the performance of the work. What does it mean? An important change in performance? What degree of prevention and difficulty in carrying out that activity is needed to take place and what types of unforeseen technological, economic or organisational changes should happen, so that the employer can terminate the contract with the school without the law of the prescribed minimum notice, because it does not specify in Article 15 that defines the content of the contract? We're talking professional high schools with specific profiles. The companies mentioned here as potential employers are specific, closely specialized professions. An employer under such undefined arbitrary conditions can break the contract and have discontinuity happen to children in the follow-up, and then the school has a problem finding an alternative, such a specific employer, because they are not too many in Serbia. We have no "Boing" and "Lokid" and Erbas and "Douglas", we have JAT Technic. Where are we gonna send these kids back to training? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24540	Thank you. The amendment is proposed by MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24541	Thank you, Chairman. I will also commit myself to point 4) in this article, which speaks of a situation where an employer can terminate a dual education contract if there are unexpected technological, economic or organisational changes in the employer. So this is written so that it can happen whenever the employer fits. He can only send a memo -- because of, he says, the appearances of unforeseen technological, say, circumstances, we have to break up the dual education contract. And no longer does that employer have to do with students who have done part of their work learning or have yet to do part of their work under this law. This best shows what the purpose of this law is, that employers, we repeat it all the time, employers get the opportunity to hire young people, to pay 70% of the minimum earnings in Serbia, that they do business for them when the employer and how much it suits, and when he no longer needs such labour, he will cancel this contract, without any consequences, any sanctions. That's the problem with this law, because it wasn't written to train labour in Serbia, as we are listening here. It's like that's the problem, like people, first of all, young people in Serbia are lazy, so they don't work, they don't have anywhere to work. If they're not members of SNS or SPS, they have nowhere to work. They don't, and when they do, they don't have any perspective. Do the employers you give out of the state budget subsidize employ people indefinitely? No, I don't. All of them are employed for a certain, three months, six months, three months, six months, then a little break, and again. They've been working for years on a certain level, they don't have any perspective. They work for minimum profit. And that's the economic policy of this government. That's why young people leave Serbia, don't see their future here. The profits are small. You can't get to work unless you're a member of the ruling party and you don't have any economic certainty and certainty that you'll have this job in the years ahead of you. You're looking at NIS business. In 2012, nearly 12,000 employees, today slightly less than 4,000. All employees have been transferred to the agencies, to the laboring agencies, and there work for minimum wages, work for a certain time, can't start a family, can't take a loan, can't do anything. You're going to do this to the kids now. We've been listening to examples here from various backgrounds in the last 20, 30 years, from some fellow MPs, how they do it in their midst. Well, how does it work if this is the first time we've passed a dual education law? How was it 20 years or 30 years ago if this is the first time? Well, it's not like this because this isn't the dual education that says in this law. This is learning with work, practice, not dual education. I'll say it again here every time. Dual education is when a young man is employed by an employer, he gets all the rights that he is legally entitled to and here in the state of Serbia, unfortunately, minimally, and on pension, and on health insurance, and on union organisation, that little protection that the law still provides in Serbia, and then works knowing that he can work in that company, if he is a good worker and if he learns, to stay working for the rest of his life. What's he gonna know? Nothing. That he'd finish some practice, that 70% of the minimum wage would be paid for it, but in that time, he wouldn't count on an internship or anything. Now, that's your dual education that it's not. So don't cite those examples, because they have nothing to do with what's called dual education, because if we have that, then what is this? How is this so epic, revolutionary and reformal, if it existed before? There was, practice, there is today, and this is nothing new. You're just giving open, untied hands to employers to do what they want, as they will, for small money, because it's your economic policy, because you look forward to Romania raising the minimum labour price, because now employers are going to come to Romania instead of Serbia. Well, he won't, he won't. And the growth rate in Romania is 6%, not even 2% in Serbia. It's your economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24542	The right to replicate the political party, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24543	They explained it to me, ladies and gentlemen, but when someone comes in here only when there's nothing else to do or when they're bored at home, then someone doesn't hear it. On the subject – today only those who are in the SNS, or who are working, with perspective or without, can explain to me and mention that there are not one, but more examples, those who are sitting on the other side of the hall, and they are employed for the state institutions doing so, and they are well paid there, they lack nothing. So are these members of the SNS or those parties representing here? I'd say it's someone else. Were the members of these people's families, too, the most normal working for state institutions, various institutions? We also mentioned numerous courts and the Anti-Corruption Agency, here and the National Assembly? Does that mean these people sent members of their family to SNS? It'll still be that they're not. They know very well that they're not, but something else is at stake here. Hypocrisy, but also negligent. Pay no attention, ladies and gentlemen, because just someone who gets these things here and says, "You can't work without a membership of the SNS without half a problem." The second thing, his colleague just got up and talked, the private company owner is looking for, what, work and results, he's not interested in parties or other coppers, his man said. So that's the basis for being employed in the private sector today. Is that right? Did you answer yourself or do I need to add something? One thing, not just a private employer, the state wants for what they pay for work and results, not just today, she wanted it when the former president, and the famous model at his job came in at 12, drinking coffee, stayed up to 12, 12,15, and from there for a nice lunch, then from lunch to an even nicer dinner, from dinner to a good night's party, to a good night's sleep, then the next day, again, about 11, half 12 to work. They were both the work and the results they delivered. Everything else alive, Todor, let me hear a speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24544	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24545	So this is about an amendment relating to the termination of the contract by the employer. However, I will refer precisely to those claims that this law is practically allowed to use, exploit, not to say, exploit students in the sense that the employer uses them for work tasks in the process of work, for production, for the process itself, etc. on the basis of which a certain effect is achieved and which, of course, has a certain value on the market. So in the process of education, I don't think any employer can expect such a working effect in the process of education based on which he will profit or earn. There is no question that this law allows the exploitation of students, or exploitation of students, and that at a certain point, when they make sufficient use of the workforce, or students, they will be able to terminate the contract. After all, the price foreseen for paying students, who spend time learning through work, is 70% of the minimum price. There's no point in making up for what the student does. More can be accepted, i.e. as an incentive or investment of the employer in what he will gain tomorrow, as well as the whole society, i.e. to get a qualified young man with competencies who will be needed in the further process of work, and only then can the employer receive from that new expert a certain benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24546	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24547	Just a few answers. Who's going to find out if some company is in some kind of trouble and can't continue to carry out their work? We have already regulated this in Article 12 by forming a Commission to determine the fulfilment of the conditions, so there is no dilemma. The role of the Chamber of Commerce is to monitor liquidity and business around 97,000 companies in Serbia. At this point, about 200 have entered the dual education system, so we have very much capacity to worry that we will have at the beginning of the development of this model of education many companies that can meet the needs. Of course, counterpart Jokic has repeatedly highlighted the importance of school workshops, so wherever high school models are preserved, whether they are textile, machine, everything else, we keep that resource. When it comes to driving training, we do not currently have agreements with companies that would work on these dual models, but there is training in traffic schools, traffic and technical schools, as well as in certain technical schools, in Kragujevac, Belgrade and in many other places that are carried out in closed polygons with current practice. I'm sure we'll come up with that profile and see how he goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24548	The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24549	Dear Vice President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we have seen, in the previous article, we have spoken of how very transparently the employer has appointed when the contract is terminated, and in this article 19th, when the school terminates the contract. I think all four of these elements are very transparent and there are no certain problems about it. All in all, it's a wonderful law on dual education and, as our political opponents say, it's not about any exploitation of labour. On the contrary, it really is about well-trained students in theory and practice, because you will allow, I will quote Lenin who said – no theory without practice, no practice without theory. It's a finished quote. Just in their time of rule, the students unfortunately had a theory of the minimum, and they had no practice at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24550	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the termination of the treaty has been defined. I'll set an example. Here we had representatives of the party of the former regime who said that through some agencies people do it for cheap money. A contract with all workers has been terminated in NIS, without any right to the law. Why was NIS sold? So someone would be elected president. I will dare say - very cheap, just to be elected president. Remember that big kidnapping around the chair between Kostunica and what he was elected, which extended Kosovo's independence only until he was elected, then after the oath, two days, declared at their request. The end of the contract came after that sale. All the employees went to the agency, and everyone got three times the pay, all the workers, so it was up to them. When the unemployed decide on workers, they don't define their rights, because they only think when their pockets are full that all other pockets can be empty, that they can be poverty that was unsustainable to watch. Today when someone is trying to renovate the masters, craftsmen, the economy, it doesn't suit them. They have their own virtual economy where no one has to do anything, where academics are going to make shoes, where academics are going to cut lemons, etc. They're not into workers. They made workers a poor man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24552	Thank you. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24553	Thank you. Article 19, as well as the rubrum, we have suggested that it be deleted, since this law on dual education is bad and will not bring any good consequences to the education system or to the system of work that we so call upon here. Article 19 is proposed to delete because it speaks of the termination of the contract by the school, so it says in point 3. – if the employer executes a violation of the ban under Article 10 of this Act, then the school terminates the contract. Article 10 of the two statutes states that, firstly, the protection of students' right to dual education is achieved in accordance with the law governing the basics and systems of education and education, the law governing secondary education and education, the law governing the field of work and protection at work, the regulations governing the ban on carrying out dangerous work for children and this law. We've already had a comment that we don't have a list of dangerous jobs, which is otherwise determined, we haven't adopted it, we haven't ratified it, the area of dangerous work for children, too, changes and additions to the Labour Act are just following it, and that's legal, you go by law, so you're going to change both. But the second attitude here says – during learning through work, employers are prohibited from discrimination against students physically, mentally, socially, sexually, digitally and any other violence, abuse, neglect of students, in accordance with the law governing the basics and system of education, education and other law. You are in two positions of Article 10, where a member of the 19th calls for a copy of the provisions of one law, not all of them, and you cannot overwrite the provisions of other laws that you have stated in Article 10, because they are not even in the Labour Act, as we do not have a list of dangerous jobs. We stand firm that the situation with dual education is such that the work has been done and the slaves have had a job, there is always work. Women, you know, they've been busy all day, except that job hasn't been paid. This free women's work is based on what, and you here suggest that Serbia's development is based on free child labour. Bad and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24554	Thank you. Members of the 19th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić and Zoran Krasic, together by Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sandra Pavlovic, together by Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic and jointly by Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24555	Yes, it is an article 19 - the end of a contract by the school. Education is a public legal matter, not a bond relationship thing or something that belongs to contract law. However, you tried to regulate it in this way, so you cited cases where the termination of the contract may require school, and the reasons for the termination of the contract are neither on the side of the school nor on the part of the employer, but they can be quite third. There is a complete absurdity when the educational process is treated as a contractual relationship, regardless of whether the contractual relationship between the school and the employers or whether the contractual relationship between the students or what you call an employer is where practice should be done. And that's now the crown proof of a system's indetermination, which will in practice create major problems, because half-truth, half-false, indeterminateness of a system really causes a problem. You've made a mistake here that you've raised all of this to the level of the law, although this is essential matter for sublegal acts, for educational institutions' programmes that should have one flexible approach, how to implement this working practice for those educational profiles that need it. I am simply surprised that you have no longer defined yourself for something that has a better tradition than we do, which is the scholarship of students, with the obligation that someone who pays a scholarship has the right to keep an educated student, a craftsman in a working relationship at least in a double-long period of time than education, because I think it's much better and more stimulating and something that creates a much greater motive for young generations to get into the education process, to get a professional education profile, already has a certainty that in three, four years he starts working in a serious healthy company and has an obligation to be in this working relationship for six to eight years. So I'm saying we needed an authentic education system, which looks like what you say is dual, to satisfy first of all that side of this process, and that's the educational side, that's the student who acquires knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24556	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24557	It's a letter. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24558	Comrade Tepic, I'll give you your word back. Don't make me break the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24559	Please don't interpret the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. I have the right to plead and to be referred to as I should. So, a member of the 19th of this harmful law on dual education, which we ask from the New Party of the Independent Members' Club to delete, as well as all other members, and the law itself to withdraw from the procedure, which you have the right to, Mr. Minister, until the end of this debate. I'm sure at some point, when he's left alone and well and deeply thought out, you'll make that decision and make it. So, Article 19 is a poor continuation of the provisions that have been contained in previous members, and as regards contracts between school and employers on dual education, which also defines the conditions of termination, as previously defined in other members, what all the contracts should contain, but we as MPs, as perhaps parents, as interested citizens will never be able to see the agreements between school and employers. Or they won't be on the web site of schools that sign these contracts. Schools aren't private. We're discussing state schools here, you're the State Department, not the Ministry of Employers and not the Ministry of the Chamber of Commerce and not the Ministry of the Interest of anyone other than students, students and schools. It's just amazing that you've protected everything else in these provisions, just not that this contract between school and employers is public, available to parents, that at all times they know what school is committed to, and what employers are committed to. Just to place a code of secrecy, as the government has put on camera documentation in Kosovo... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24560	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24561	Thank you. And with this amendment parliamentary group, enough has been asked to delete the proposed member as well as all the other members. More specifically, that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure and not passed. If we pass this law, for the next two years, we will focus all available resources, both human and financial, on the introduction of this dual education, on resources, both human and financial, which we do not have enough and which would be much more useful if we had turned them towards reforming the entire education system, starting with preschool, through primary school education. If we had done so, the results at the end of primary school education, which for years back, decades back, would have improved and in that case, would have had a completely different situation at the end of primary school education and a much less need to introduce dual education, because there would be fewer children who do not have enough knowledge to enroll in high school than they have to go to some professional trades. This smaller number will always have, as much as we reform primary school education, and in this case, it will be enough that instead of introducing dual education we make sure that secondary school education in secondary schools is not only a theory, but also a practice within it. That's what socially responsible countries do. They take responsibility for the educational process in both high schools and secondary vocational schools, and do not transfer that responsibility to the private sector and employers, whose main interest is once we adopt this law on dual education, so that they get more cheap labour. They will not be obliged to pay the children or minimum prescribed earnings in the Republic of Serbia, but will pay them less than minimum earnings and do not have to pay them pension insurance, and they get cheap labour. By introducing dual education, we risk putting underage children at unnecessary risk of being exploited by the employer. It doesn't necessarily mean it will be, but there's no need to expose them to that risk. With this, I urge once again, to withdraw from the procedure the law on dual education and to turn resources both human and financial to a burning problem, to reform and improve the quality of pre-school and primary education. First of all, we relieve parents of the terrible financial pressures that basic education represents, since it is only a cobajagi for free. All parents know that the moment a child goes to elementary school they have to put their hand deep in their pocket. It starts with buying textbooks, which are not generally cheap, which are between 10,000 and 17,000 dinars. If an average household, which on average earns about 57,000 dinars a month, has more than one child, it is simply an unsustainable cost in September. Parents have to raise their loans to buy their children textbooks. Please, it's not even in Botswana. In Botswana, textbooks are free of charge. I urge that we turn resources towards improving the quality of primary and preschool education, and that we withdraw every story of dual education from the procedure and leave it for a moment in which primary education works at a very high and high level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24562	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24563	It will be brief, Mr. Chairman, member of 106th and issue of the agenda. I don't think it would be bad, I'm not asking you to vote, just a little bit to make sure this debate makes sense. To take care and to draw attention, when it happens, and now it has just happened, that the MPs miss out on the law they're discussing. To be kind to him, since we continue to discuss this law on dual education, we will only later discuss the law concerning preschool and primary education. So, I believe it's an accidental mistake, but when it happens to point out, just so that the MP doesn't waste time, or his own debate, or even to say, to appreciate a little time and the other people who are present and the citizens who are watching this. The second note is no longer as much for you as it may be for the technical service. If there is some calculator to be added to the MPs, because the average value of the textbook doesn't fit 0.15% of the budget, if that's what we've heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24564	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24565	The Honorable Chairman, Article 108, has been injured. – on the agenda of the National Assembly is taken care of by the President of the National Assembly. I don't know how long you intend to let Ambassador Orlic conduct this assembly debate and determine instead of you when what the Messenger has done is wrong. I understand they've wasted their time, so they've been using it irrationally, and they have to bear the consequences. So these replicas, replicas of replicas, I don't even know why, about the injury of the Rules of Procedure that they're not, suggest they're running out of time. I'm sorry, they spent it. Now they'll have to wait until the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24566	My colleague, colleague Orlic used the same right you have. Then why does it bother you? (Sonja Pavlovic: Are you right? ) He was given the right to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He believes that I am too tolerant of the opposition MPs who, in the amendment, writes – the school terminates the dual education agreement if, now you have points 1, 2, 3 and 4, so there is another position. We're talking free textbooks. I accept that it is my fault to appear so democratically towards all MPs, but then let it be to everyone, not just to those who are good to you and like them. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24567	Thank you, Chairman. Article 19, as you read earlier, talks about situations where school can break up a dual education contract, lists several points. The point here is to sublime the terms of the termination of the contract when the employer violates some of the obligations of the previous members. What is also in point 1, there is a call for Article 12, paragraph 8, and Article 12 again deals with the role of the Chamber of Commerce in this law. I'd rather stick to it, to point out again that it's completely inappropriate for the Chamber of Commerce to take this place in the dual education law as you call it, and I repeat that it's not the law on dual education, because you need to look at the laws on dual education in those countries to which you call yourself, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and to see what dual education means in those countries. So this is where you introduced the Chamber of Commerce as some kind of police officer to watch over employers. So, the Chamber will form a commission, then the commission will deal with whether the conditions laid down in Article 12 of this Law are met. If it finds that these conditions are not met, it will propose to the Chamber of Commerce a solution to the termination of the dual education contract. Interestingly, for these five and a half years, the government has introduced through various laws the Chamber of Commerce into parts of life in which it is absolutely not the place of the Chamber of Commerce, of the building manager, of giving various public authority to the Chamber of Commerce to issue permits, and now here in education. The Chamber of Commerce will have a commission, there will be some members from the ministry, some people who work in education, means teachers. The only good thing it says explicitly is that they will not receive compensation for working on that commission. It's a good thing you put that on. This provision of fees on various commissions and working bodies is the way the government corrupts and keeps state officials under control. Put them in one or two commissions, and those in 30, 35 thousand dinars a month, if they meet once or once in three months, but for that little supplement, people keep silent and suffer that their knowledge is being undermined and that these laws come in the process, that different other sublegal and similar documents are being passed that have nothing to do with reality. This member of the law is hurtful. The whole law is harmful, Minister, we will repeat it until the end of this debate. Pull the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24568	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24569	Just a few information about what Col. Comic was saying. The government adopts a regulation on 1 January 2018, which will establish this dangerous work that is not recommended to children under any circumstances when it comes to work, and thus education and preparation for it. What's very important, someone mentioned, I mean, colleague Krasic, student scholarship. Here in Article 33 of the same law, these provisions are noted, but the legislation has warned us that we do not need to be retapped from the Law on Student-Student Standard, as scholarships by both state and employer are foreseen. I think it's going to be a very important job in the next period. I will repeat once again that our model is the development model of the Dual Education Act, which is not prescribed by the Germans, the Swiss and the Austrians, and there are no solutions that you mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24570	Thank you. National MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 19th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24571	Dear Vice President, this Dual Education Act is ours, according to Minister Sarcevic, it is neither German nor Chevy, nor anyone's model, but it has been taken from everyone by something, taking care of our conditions and that's what's important. I have a feeling, indeed, that some MPs haven't read the law, and that proves when it connects with each other, and then when they come to this other law, they connect it with the previous one, etc. All in all, when it comes to employers and schools, both are very clearly defined. When a contract is broken and obligations are also known who assumes the student, and on the other hand when another employer is sought. What is important, opposition MPs are trying to prove that this is about exploiting students, minors, to train for physical labour. In their period, there were no working organisations, no employers, no businesses, so there could be no dual education. They stand for the chaos that reigned at the time. However, Serbia is working and building today. Go through, walk Serbia along and across, as well as the city of Belgrade, work is done and built in Serbia and will be built and will be done even more with the introduction of dual education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24572	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24573	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as someone who's been through dual education, I welcome the possibility of the school breaking up the contract, but also to colleagues who stand here exclusively for digital education, I must say, there is no such thing without dual education. What do you mean, here, this phenomenon from "they've never had enough," how do they think a computer without workers is being built? Who's gonna build a housing? There's got to be a worker who's gonna build a housing. Someone's got to make a chip. Someone's got to take it down. Modem, someone has to do it, even the ball, for those who look at it. It can't be digital, someone has to make it. And those nativity cards, too, someone has to produce. Everyone who uses it now is against dual education. So some masters have to do it. You can't have a delicious fruit, you can't have anything, you can't have a computer, you can't have someone who hasn't done it physically before. That's why I don't understand their need to say -- we're sick of workers, we're sick of craftsmen, we're sick of farmers, we want everything to be digital. It can't all fit into 42 peas of beans and it can't all fit in a glass ball, or in a natural map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24574	The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24575	Thank you, Chairman. I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, specifically to point out Article 104(2), which says – if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or to a party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, etc., you know how they do themselves. Please really respond to expressions like this, to grades like this, to qualifications like this. What does “they never had enough ” mean? We can say the same thing about any other group, but we won't. It's just not our style, it's not our manners. Please respond to this. This kind of thing humbles not only the dignity of the National Assembly as such, but also of all the MPs of the people. Please, act, don't keep quiet on these things, don't let them. Everyone sees what this is really about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24576	My colleague Stevanović, I can't imagine what anyone sees, but what anyone hears.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24577	Don't play silly, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24578	That I'm not being silly? Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24579	Thank you. So Article 20 is a matter which we consider to be one of the most immoral members in this law. What makes us think that? Because what this article says shows is that for children who are in dual education you don't care, that you don't care at all what happens to them, that you don't care at all where they're going to continue schooling, whether they're going to continue schooling, whether you're going to ruin them in the years that come, or whether they're going to make something out of their lives. What are we talking about? Because here in view of the second... If the gentleman can't advocate the minister, it's very important what we're saying, because this is a member who's been proof of everything we've been saying since the start of the debate. So, he says, if the dual education agreement is broken for the reasons prescribed in Article 18 of point 4 of this law, and this is the situation of the colleague Vidinović, when the school says – dear children, there have been some changes in us, you will no longer be educated here, in this situation learning through the work of students provides school with another employer with which he has completed a dual education contract. Mr Arsic, could you ask the Minister to consult with the MPs at a time when the National Assembly meeting does not take place, because this is extremely important what I am talking about? So, on what basis does the promoter believe that the school will be able to find the same firm, with the same children's work, with the same machines, with the same educational profiles, in the same place, in the same municipality, and that all these children will now suddenly be able to move into a new company to work? Mr. Sarcevic, it's terribly important that you answer this, because if you don't have an answer to this question, that means you don't care about those kids. How is the school gonna find a new firm where all those kids work? If someone has learned for two years that they are turning one bolt on one machine, this company is now telling children, parents and schools that they will no longer participate in the dual education programme, and you have allowed them to do so for one single reason, how will the school find a company where all students will move to work, on the same machines, on the same educational profiles, in the same municipality? I don't know, do you think you make kids travel hours to a new school or a new job? So, the fact that you didn't even commit that firm to complete the child education process, or to find another firm that could be a partner, shows that everything you do, you do exclusively for the benefit of fake investors.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24580	Thank you. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Filip Stojanović and Zoran Krasic and together by Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandar Cabraja and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24581	Article 20. The bill concerns the consequences of the termination of the contract, and some consequences are now listed there. For those of us who have submitted the amendment, something else is important. Any termination of the contract, depending on the reasons, which the party seeks, whether the reasons are futility or corruption, creates appropriate legal consequences. Generally, the legal consequence is the restitution that everything goes back to the way it was before. Of course, other variations are possible, depending on who's to blame. But when you look at all the legal consequences of the termination of the contract, then we see that the restitution is not quite possible, that the legal consequences have affected the employer, that the legal consequences have affected the student at work training and that the only one not affected by the legal consequences is the school. Why? By the time the professors broke up, they were paid. Very simple and simple. Something else has been going on since the breakup. Mr. Sarčević, the National Assembly makes the biggest contribution to the so-called "Northern Republic". dual education. You see, we here in these buffets have these kids who are in school. They end up catering, if they were waiters, and that's said to be a dual education, there's no contract, there's a lot more automation. Well done. But 99.9% of people who have catering facilities, cafes, etc. They don't have any of that education, they're not waiters, and I don't know what they are. You know, and it kind of makes this concept a little bit and pointless. Now I have to tell you one thing, these kids at the catering school, Mr. Sarčević, when they learn how to serve, have a special teaching lesson in emptying the ashtray and they learn how to empty the ashtrays, and in practice it's forbidden to smoke everywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24582	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24583	Thank you. In Article 20. The dual education law states that if a dual education contract is terminated on the employer's initiative, due to unforeseen technological, economic or organisational changes in the employers who prevent, make it difficult or significant to change their performance, the school is obliged to provide education to students and to learn through work with another employer. So that's illogical. The employer terminates the contract on his initiative, leads to a school problem, the school loses its location for teaching, loses its conditions for teaching, and the employer's move let the school choose to manage. It's about employers of specific profiles. This isn't Germany. We have one Fiat, we don't have Opel, Folkswagen, BMW, Mercedes. We have a Fiat. What happens, say, in Kragujevac, where we send the children, how are we going to solve the problem when the employer terminates that contract, and by the way, by the way of Article 15, he doesn't have to set a deadline in that contract? He doesn't have to contract it. So, from some unforeseen circumstances, organizational, say, the guy shut down the project bureau, he's gone, and he declares that there's been a significant change in teaching conditions, a break in contract, no cancellation deadline, and now the school needs to find another flag, in Kragujevac or anywhere, anywhere in Serbia, as if we have these flags falling from the sky and we're reading them from the branch. Who will solve the problem of discontinuity in the teaching, losing class until the alternative employer is found? Will children have problems in lost hours, weekend work fees, and will they ever find an alternative employer? So we are not against the concept of dual education as such and against professional secondary education as such and learning with the work and acquisition of practical knowledge. Not everyone in this country can be a doctor of science, someone has to be a quality auto mechanic, it's not a dispute, but the conditions that this law lands in Serbian society are completely unprepared, a lot of gaps are left here and we're going to create problems and the reach of this law will be problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24584	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24585	Thank you. This article concerns the consequences of the termination of the contract. It is prescribed in paragraph 1 that if a dual education contract is terminated because the school is prohibited or suspended, because it ceases to meet the required conditions for an educational profile in which the employer implements learning through work or because it does not fulfil the obligations provided for in the dual education agreement, the continuation of education shall be provided by another school designated by the Ministry in agreement with the employer. The proposed solution is not sufficiently clearly defined on the basis of which criteria the Ministry makes a decision on which school will determine. Also, Article 3 provides that if the school has terminated a dual education contract because the employer is deprived of the certificate or because the employer fails to fulfil the obligations provided for in the dual education agreement, schools organises learning through work with the support of the Ministry, the local self-government unit and the business chamber of Serbia at the second employer to conclude a dual education contract. The proposed solution does not clearly specify which criteria the school will use when deciding to conclude a dual education contract with a particular employer. What involves the support of the Ministry, the local self-government unit and the Chamber of Commerce as well as within what time period the school is required to organise learning through work. This is also pointed out by the Anti-Corruption Agency, so for this reason we consider the amendment justified and ask for erasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24586	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24587	The titles above this article are due to the termination of the contract. When you read, you see that no one here will be responsible for anything if the contract is broken, that all the damage will be transferred to the back of the student, because these students will continue learning through the work of another employer if the school does not have a signed contract. In what time will, as it says here, Section 3. The Chamber of Commerce, i.e. the school with the support of the Ministry, local self-government and the Chamber of Commerce to conclude a new contract. What about lost time? What about that mandatory learning fund of professional subjects, learning through work, as prescribed by this law from 20 to 80%, when it will be done if, say, the Ministry cannot, with the support of the Chamber of Commerce and local self-government, two, three months to find a suitable employer who has no interest. So are we gonna send these students, 50, 60, 100 kilometers away to some employer? Who's gonna pay for that? Who will bear these costs or they will sit at home and wait, and then they will have to work and when the school year doesn't last or they will have to work on weekends or at some other time. I think this member is essentially pointless, because no consequences determine and define who is responsible for these bad consequences that will happen. As this member is bad, the whole law is bad and once again the minister, withdraw this law on quasi-dual education.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24588	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24589	It doesn't have to be the same firm, if it's about moving on to a similar kind of job, it could be a related company. We're talking again about having school workshops in the current model of secondary vocational education. There's only a difference in quality here. If the school workshops are now places where this teaching is taking place and now it's going on, and there's better technology where it takes place in the manufacturing process, we're going to make the one amongst the steps that's enough for another company to find, it's going on in the school environment. This kind of doesn't stop the process of teaching, only it loses its quality. Speaking of waiters and chefs, Belgrade becomes a tourist destination. It's a lot of hotels, it's not just training for a month, two days, so it can waiter whoever opens the bar. They need to know foreign languages and a number of other things, so we're saying that even psychology teaches some other important subjects. It is very much taken into account and there is no speed if we say that this law will be applied in 2019, so for now, again, I point out that only 200 companies have met the conditions and criteria of this kind. So that's what it's all about, and those profiles that have a big market interest are being introduced, so now we only have 19 profiles. The plan is building, the plan is precisely the hospitality – touristic and gradually dosed. The countries that have been doing this for years have also gradually introduced and modified this into walking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24590	Thank you. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now, in accordance with Article 87(1), I'm setting a one-hour break, and we're continuing at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24592	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in order to be effective, as a former producer, I will shorten this exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24593	Thank you. The National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24594	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, for the 20th, which speaks of the consequences of the termination of the treaty and in the explanation of which the amendment has been rejected, we have been given to say, - the amendment is not accepted, because the school, ministry and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia will provide a continuation of the initial education, and I am now particularly emphasising - in an equipped school workshop, or in another appropriate way - especially if it is the final year of learning. You just gave a partial answer, when you were answering your colleague Jerkov, which is very interesting to me, is what other appropriate ways are there? What if this learning is done through the work of an employer who has no comparative employer in the territory where it is carried out? Then we go back to the school workshops and that's clear to me, but then where are we in trouble? We talked yesterday about examples of where learning is done through work in companies that have highly sophisticated technology. We can't have it in school workshops and what you said the students will in some way certainly be damaged, because they won't be able to achieve an adequate amount of knowledge and then, in fact, we come to what I said, that the theory that they will be able to deal with private work will fall into the water because they will not be adequately trained. So the only thing that makes it easier is that we have this period of two years, but another thing that's said in Article 20, I don't like it. It says the work will be organised by the school with the support of the ministry and local self-government units. What if such a thing happens in a local self-government which otherwise has a small budget and which otherwise falls into underdeveloped or underdeveloped parts of the Republic of Serbia? These are all things to think about, because in these environments, the need for dual education may be more pronounced than in the conditioned environments. So I'm grateful, no matter what you did yesterday, you got a recommendation not to listen to what we suggest and what you understand what I'm talking about and try to find solutions during that period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24595	Thank you. On the title of Part 2 of Chapter III, the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komic and Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stvanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Rade, together Marinika Tepić and Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Čobraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Mr Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, submitted the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24596	Thank you. We need both craftsmen and masters. That's not controversial. What's controversial is the way we decided to educate them. The legislator intends to introduce dual education and train masters and craftsmen in the private sector, transferring responsibility for education to private employers. The MP group Enough was believed that responsibility for the education of masters and craftsmen should be taken over by improving the quality of education in secondary vocational schools by introducing a practice in which these future craft masters will acquire practical knowledge. At the end of the summit and more than reform within the existing secondary vocational education we need free textbooks above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24597	Thank you. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted this amendment in order to strengthen the Government's proposal, and to confirm their insistence. We have nothing against free textbooks, they'll be earned by craftsmen. They'll be earned by craftsmen when they raise the economy, when we get rid of the bankruptcy directors, when we get rid of the various hohstapplers of the political nature, who sold our entire economy by 6.7 billion and left the bloated public sector. When we get rid of all this, there was financial discipline in this country that wasn't. When we get rid of all of this, then we'll be able to have free textbooks, but we'll find new tractor factories, we'll have something that was IMR again, something that was IMT, something that was "dragon," and I was already saying, "Imt, only IMT without Rakovica, the production of tractors worth today 500 million euros per year, plus a connection device and machinery, plus single-axe tractors in Knjižvac, plus a trailer factory in Loznica. So, once again, when we have value, good, patient, working craftsmen, when we are again and we're scavengers, in full capacity, as they say, employees, not just returnees, gossipers, etc. then we will have free textbooks, because they will earn for their children their own hands and fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24599	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24600	Just a little explanation or comment on what we were talking about earlier, and it's about local self-government. I agree that it is necessary to strengthen just those who are undeveloped and who will accept this concept before. The Ministry of Education's weight and science is on them. We're doing it on the ground, so we'll take care of it. I'm glad we agreed that technological progress is better if you take a young man to work in a more modern company, where technology is better than what state can provide in a workshop. That would thank my colleague for his comment, but this has to be combined. It's really good to take a guy for an electrocution classic, but take him to the CNC machine, see how he's doing now when it's projected and used by IT technology. So, all models are acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24601	Thank you. The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojčić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 22nd amendment in the same text, the MPs together, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, were submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24602	Thank you. Let me repeat once again that we need both craftsmen and masters. That's not controversial. It's slow and let's argue here in the way we think they should be educated. We believe that the state should take responsibility for this and that they are educated within the education system by introducing practices into secondary vocational schools instead of being sent to the private sector, to put them at risk of being exploited by employers as a cheap workforce. But there's one more thing I'd like to point out. We need innovators and entrepreneurs, besides craftsmen and professional masters, because where will these masters and craftsmen work, in which companies, if we don't have innovators to run, start and develop companies where these masters and craftsmen will work? In order to have innovators, we must urgently move to a fundamental reform of our lagging and unfair preschool and primary school system. We need the process of teaching, the way the teaching is performed immediately to change. We have to stop pushing children of the 21st century to force God into an education system that works according to 19th-century models. We can't expect children of this new age to adapt to the 19th century school. We have to adapt education to children, not vice versa. It's the only way we have innovators to run companies that will be able to hire professional masters, craftsmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24603	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24604	Mr. Minister, because of the public and those who are following us, the citizens of Serbia, the parents and at the end of potential students and the future, to repeat the position of the SRS that we are against dual education and here on this case now this member we are considering and we have submitted the amendment to, I will say and explain why this is not good. So, although you wanted to and imagined this as a project that is absolutely not applicable and will not be applicable in Serbia for many reasons, and of course you will implement this law in all possible ways, here you will find it difficult that a future employer who will hire a student for a particular activity, after cancelling the contract, which some members have predicted earlier, can absolutely, as people say, be made foolish, first of all, because I am absolutely confident that the choice of employers, because you are such a role that is inappropriate in the education system, gave to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce a key word that it has the very Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. So, what happens now at my place in Kragujevac, Užica and in various other cities, in Piroth, in Vranj, if one of the employers doesn't want to engage with that and that school for such involvement of students, or dual education? They'll just have to. There are people who follow this transmission that are entrepreneurs and who do not want to enter into that relationship with the state, or the education system. Although they are very successful and have their own mini factories, they have their actions, production, etc., they do not want it, but they will be forced, I am absolutely convinced, as people are being driven, i.e. the law is such, that it should also be the subject of the Constitutional Court, because it is for the assessment of constitutionality, that they are paying membership fee for the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia which we have been wondering about for decades, it is not now, since my first working relationship is based on 1987 in the big system "Statembly", that is, the President of the Chamber, and I know that even then we have to pay for membership and large co-ordination and to be forced to do everything we do, and yet to be able to do it right now, that my work is not right in the same way, that my work is going to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24605	Thank you. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24606	Ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing in this contract is the material and financial status of the students defined by this contract. So, that our viewers know that there are no slaves, there's no free labour, that children know that they can earn even more at the stage of their schooling. I'm a little bit offended by some of these unemployed people who talk about work. If they watched American movies, they saw that the biggest employers, the biggest industrialists practiced their children by bringing them into the first stage of production, to the end. To conduct well, they had to undergo training, they had to learn and work, learn through work. Those who didn't have their own companies, kids were delivering drinks, learning to be caterers, delivering newspapers. They could've hurt themselves while riding a bicycle, but the point was to learn to respect money and learn to live off the money, not the man in charge. Those who resent us, their main product was long, imagination, illusions and tinyly chopped fog on the dice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24607	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24608	Just two explanations. No employer is forced to accept a dual education contract. He can go in a classic way, educate himself or from the labour market to take, as he pleases. When it comes to the overall quality of education in Serbia, it is initiated by the adoption of the Law on the Education and Education System in this home very nearly, and I think that today is the framework of a plan and programme or some curricula. I will also inform the general public that the first class of the first cycle of primary school, as well as the fifth grade, is reformed, the beginning of the second cycle, is already finished in the publication phase, and the reform of the gymnasium and secondary professional is completed, so that the whole dokadem section is covered, and the 2018 begins to be realized. The training that should take place is envisaged through SBS, or European assistance of 27.4m euros, so we have fulfilled all the tasks that await us, and the concept that we have chosen is Eastern learning, means a very modern concept, and I think that this is going to happen very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24609	The word is Natasa Jovanovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24610	No, I do a short replica, colleague Arsic. So, Mr. Minister, I didn't think it was going to be a nightmare, but the experience so far tells me that it's not that simple, because if it stays only at the National Employment Service, even though it keeps that record by employment profiles, I myself had not to say negative experience, but failure as an entrepreneur to try, eventually and to help those for the profile I needed, to hire a certain number of young people from the National Employment Service, and I remember that over twenty of them came to the so-called. the conversation and it turns out that these are the children who ended up here and that professional school, and they don't have that experience, and then eventually it happened, and that's what I'm trying to say as an example, that people who have more education are engaged in a job that required a high school. That's all I wanted to do was illustrate it as an example.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24611	The 22nd Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the 23rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Vjerica Rade, Miljan Damjanović and Zoran Krasić, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Živković, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Đurić, Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Gordana Čomić, Dragoljub Mic, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrović, Dusan Petrović and Dušan Miljanović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24612	This article refers to the possibility of a dual education contract being concluded with several employers, probably in line with the education programme, and if the need for this practical part to be done by more employers is indicated. However, since it is a conceptal disagreement, we, of course, have submitted an amendment that we have requested to delete this member as well. I'm just drawing attention to some of the solutions in this article that this contract on behalf of a minor student is being concluded by parents, and according to the Family Relations Act, both parents exercise parental rights, so think about what might happen on that relationship about what you said was a form of entry into this relationship contract. But what is much more important to me, what needs to be drawn to, is that in some countries that, of course, are much more developed than we are, there are some solutions that are not similar to these, so in addition to compulsory secondary education, which is quite dissociative, can be professional, can be academic or general. Many countries come to the right craftsmen through the so-called so-called courses, because the level of secondary education acquired allows the student to master some courses at another or third stage and become a qualified worker. So it's something like that in America, because when they have a problem with a large number of unemployed, usually the unemployed go to some requalifications, so some have ten courses, ten different skills, ten different trades. Of course, the possibility of reaching a high - quality worker through a course is so - called. internal diplomas, internal qualifications, and why not say those qualifications that are obtained in criminal and correctional institutions, where it is possible to master seven, eight trades, and in Turkey even after two and a half years of military service, after a year, they spend a year and a half on construction sites in Russia and achieve the work and occupations of carpenters, masonry, concreteian, etc. So there are different systems, but everyone who defined these systems took care of their inner state, mentality, character, economic potential, possibilities and needs. Just to distract you one, in my opinion very important attention, we can educate a man and he can come to the employment bureau, and then the employment bureau assumes the obligation to qualify him, requalify him, and that prequalification, requalification whether it takes three months, six months, or a little longer, of course, goes to the burden of the state, and as the final result has some degree, some belief that he's been trained. If we turn these things a little differently, then we can do it before a man comes to the employment desk and we can end up through a system of education with practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24613	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24614	The other day I'm talking to a chef who complains that today's kids come out of high school and start doing nothing they don't know, unlike his generation who when she went out she knew everything and when a man asks him what the difference is, he says – well, sometimes the kids used to have practice when they went to high school, catering, and these new generations don't have that practice. And that's the real problem we're facing. However, the solution to the problem is not the introduction of dual education. The solution to this problem is the introduction of practices in secondary vocational schools trained by craftsmen and masters. We must not transfer responsibility for training and education from the state to the private sector, putting children at unnecessary risks to be exploited as a cheap workforce. We have to decide what we want in high school education, what we expect from him, whether we expect children to do or expect them to learn. If they're going to learn, then they should go to practice. If they're going to work, then they should work after school, in my day there was a youthful cooperative. There is another way to work if the goal is to work and to take some money and not to make 70% of the minimum profit, but to be an adequately paid job. In this regard, I urge that the law on dual education be withdrawn again and that we address the problem by introducing, returning practice to secondary vocational schools, so that children are not exposed to unnecessary risks of exploitation as a cheap workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24615	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24616	Now it seemed to me even if you had told Alexander Jerkov, and not only the MP of the people, but well, you would have been in line with what you were talking to me about as a male. So this is now a series of members who refer to learning contracts through work. The previous members are intrudingly missing the employer's obligation to hire a child who was on, you say schooling, and we say on very poorly paid hard work. This is now a series of members of contracts signed by parents and businesses, or a child, if it's full-time, and a company where that child is going to be, you say he's studying, and we say he's working. What's the problem now is that this contract can break those who signed it, and that's parents and businesses. However, in the case of a previous contract that can be broken when or when a school or company is not satisfied with how learning through work is realized. I am now asking you, Mr. Sarčević, what happens in the situation if both school and business are extremely satisfied with the way learning through work works, and they are not satisfied with children or are not satisfied with parents? Do they have any way to break those contracts, to keep their child enrolled in the school they went to, if the school only has a signed contract with one company? What about the parent who breaks the contract, does his child have to leave that school, does he have to look for another school, does the practice he had in this previous school admit? What is the status of a child whose parents break this contract and will they suffer if parents notice that the employer is exploiting it?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24617	I thank you for the discussion of the People's MP Aleksandra Jerkov. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24618	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, did those who made poverty instead of rooting it out, do those who fought not against poverty, against poor parents and their children know the difference between anything and nothing? Do they know the difference between 70% of personal income or zero? Do they know the difference between crafts, manual work, learning, transfer of knowledge practical? Do they know the difference between that knowledge and the street? Do they, and what they wanted, need children to learn from drug dealers or perhaps from “The Serbs of mammals” and “heinekens”? How do you suck through the Sports Development Center millions and millions of dinars? How is 459 million in one municipality to be abused? How should the Centre for Sport Development be built and put “Serb of mammals” to run it from two chairs and 30 employees? Do they need to learn or learn in the real sector how they are produced, to be honest? Well, of course those who had philosophy -- better introduced than produced -- gave work and work to other people's children abroad, other people's workers, not their own. They do not understand what an economy is; they do not understand what creation is; they understand only what destruction is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24619	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24620	In the spirit of good co-operation, I'd like to respond to my colleague Jerkov. Of course the family is wondering here, first and only, and the child's interest comes first. In case someone else breaks it, and even a parent is on that side, then we're in charge of reporting to the Ministry of Labour and Family, and educational inspection is the main body that controls everything. A parent has the right, or child along with him, to choose a whole other profile, a school, and everything else at his disposal. (Alexandra Jerkov: continues where he left off.) He continues at school with a different profile, what else he can choose. He doesn't have to choose this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24621	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I called before the minister. I didn't notice. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24622	Thank you. I asked for a word before the minister answered, but it's okay if you haven't seen. I'm advocating Article 108 that it's the order of the session of the old president of the National Assembly or the chairman, in this case, you. I think you owe the previous speaker, i.e. An MP, not a minister, to warn, because I really don't think a speech like that is anything like the National Assembly. Now it's up to you to stop it. If you think we're going to be watching such insults and lies, we're not going to, so please determine the course of the session and as chairman you see in which direction this discussion is going to go, whether it's about the subject of the agenda, whether we're scared, that we're going to be silent about such insults, it's really not appropriate and we're not going to allow any MP, especially what he's saying is disgusting lies and untrue. Please apply this Rules of Procedure and give the session what it should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24623	I appreciate the injury, but Mr. Milojicic, I'm really not capable of assessing who's telling the truth or who's not telling it. (Radoslav Milojic): Then we will make amends. I could do the same when your MPs discuss what is true and what is not. I don't want to, really. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103 on the subject of an article. 107th and 108th. First, Mr. Chairman, the previous speaker who identified himself in that "heinken" did not appear on time. That's not true. He didn't appear reportedly after a done breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you didn't do, but appeared significantly later, and then for the dignity of the National Assembly he said that I wasn't telling the truth. Here's the file. The Sports Development Centre was run by Serbs Simonović, called Serbs Sisavac, 30 employees, two chairs. He assigned, not to be, because I'm hurt by dignity, to lie to a concrete football club, our viewers certainly know it, it's the lowest league, he's awarded 16 million dinars. It's a football club from Glibovac. Behold, in the Glibovec lives a people's messenger from Palanca. He awarded his football club 16 million. The certain Serb Simonovic, called the Serb Sisavac, is a small, dignity of the National Assembly because it is said that I am lying, a large specimen said. The Charplaninac Sports Association received two million dinars. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, in time to sanction the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and punish in accordance with paragraphs 7 and 8 with two minutes of the previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24625	So I'm not late again, colleague Milojich, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Radoslav Milojic: Yes, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24626	Mr. Chairman, will you be parliamentary and can I, as an MP of the DS, use my two minutes and point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the same way that the representatives of the opposition do and to read the true malversions committed by the members of the SNS? I'm referring to article 107, and I don't think it's possible to respect that member when a previous speaker does that. Once again, I urge you to draw attention to the MPs for accuracy. Please decide, once again, how would you like to conduct this session? Should you take her to the tone in which the previous MP spoke, insinuating this parliament and all of us here? I say once again that we do not want to participate in this fake farce, a fake play they show and try to challenge the representatives and favorite MPs of Alexander Vukic, such as the previous speaker. Please, let's get back to the agenda. Once again, I say that MPs of the DS will not be able to look at the worst insults and lies on their account. It is only up to you to think again in which tone and in which direction this session will go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24627	My fellow Milojić, it's really hard for me to determine what's more true, what isn't, what's in the Rules of Procedure, what isn't. You said a fellow MP wasn't telling the truth...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24628	I asked if I could use two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24629	You've been using it for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24630	I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24631	Yes, it is. Then it triggered a reaction from an MP who wanted to defend his version of some truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24632	I wasn't attacking anyone. I was just begging you...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24633	You mentioned - People's MP, not Mr. Minister, etc. Before Mr. Minister spoke Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24634	So I can talk about Alexander Wolfie's best man.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24635	Mr. Milojitsu...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24636	So I can't?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24637	You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24638	And they can?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24639	Neither can they.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24640	You can see I can. In doing so, he's now the deputy director of the center for...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24641	The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24642	Thank you. Of course, again, contracts where employers have all the rights, and students and parents have no rights. Most importantly, there is no obligation for the employer to hire a student after finishing school, thus showing that everything we say in the previous days and in this debate is true. The termination of the contract by the employer, Article 24 in which the employer terminates the learning contract through work, so he says – if the student loses his status, the student violates the obligation established by the contract of learning through work and law, permanently loses his medical ability to work in the profession for which he is educated. Mr. Sarčević, why can't he break up a contract with a student employer or a parent, depends on who he signed, in cases where only those educational profiles on which the school's students are no longer current, there's no need for them, he did reorganization as we spoke there in Article 18 when we spoke under which conditions the school contract is terminated, but you predicted that he with the whole school was breaking up contracts only if there was no need for one educational profile anymore, etc.? All this does not matter because article 18 is set up so that the employer can say at any moment – dear children, dear parents, I'm sorry, we have some organizational changes that we could not plan and your services here are no longer necessary. You don't even predict the possibility of him breaking up with some students, and some don't, if he stopped dealing with those things that, you say some kids, we say he used to be his free workforce. So you're missing something in this article, but it doesn't matter, because the whole law is very false.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24643	Thank you. The National MPs together Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Rade, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Dr Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24644	It is an amendment to Article 24 that regulates the termination of the contract by the employer. The next member regulates the termination of the contract by students, or legal agents. The main member is missing. Contract termination because the previous contract was terminated. If a dual education contract is terminated, then by law, I guess this contract with the employer is also terminated. This is understood, and what is meant is to be written into the law in order to make it a logical continent. But it's not my main objection and something that set us in motion to submit the amendment to this member of the bill. Once again I use the opportunity to really fence myself from some of the things that are heard here from opposition lines, about exploitation and stuff, we want this to remain in the education, education, knowledge-building system, and there is no room for certain qualifications to carry out the exploitation of the workforce, because they are children, students who gain knowledge. What you're offering, some sort of material compensation, is just supposed to be a stimulant so that young people in that stimulant can see a perspective for their working engagement in the future. You're going to vote this bill, but make sure these principles stay until the end, so there aren't any deviating things that will happen in the meantime. We still think that there is a better system to implement the practical training of students, whether in school workshops, whether in other places, whether in some employers who are traditionally trained for the education of students, so be a student in the economy but to be. I'm distracting you, Mr. Minister, if you're following these commercials, you've seen what "Megatrend" commercials are now called "Megatrend", but some John. They say enroll, so you pass the entrance exam, finish and the cartoon works, so go abroad. You have this "Comtrade" who also has his own school for some of his needs. They advertise you don't have a job, you don't have a girlfriend, you sign up "Comtrade" and you solve the problem and the job and the girls.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24645	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24646	Thank you. In Article 24, paragraph 1, point 3 says that the employer terminates the learning contract through work if the student permanently loses his health skills to work in the profession for which he is trained. This now initiates a very important question that remains unclear until the end. Article 10 defining the protection of the rights of pupils states that all the laws of students will protect themselves, but that reference to the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act is inconclusive. Also, in Articles 33 and 34, the material security of students and the financial security of students, no contributions to the PIO are listed anywhere. The only thing that's listed is 70% of the net minimumers. So my question concerns Article 17, paragraph 1, point 4 of the Pension Insurance Act, which states that persons entitled to pension and disability insurance are also persons who are on... I apologize, point 3) students and students when they are in accordance with the law on compulsory production work, professional practice or practical follow-up. So, to resolve the dilemma, do children have PIO or not? I'm saying, there's an intrinsically no reference to the PIO Act. The Act on Labour, the Act on Safety and Health at Work and the Law on Founded, the Law on Middle Education, is mentioned, but this reference to the Law on PIO is not stated, nor is there anywhere in the material security of pupils that they will receive contributions, that they will be paid contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24647	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24648	I'll repeat what I've already said. This was thought about when this law was drafted, however, a reaction is expected as it is. So in the first phase, so in these preparatory two years, I said that this model would probably change. In those two years, we need to find out whether that percentage of this type of education is at this level or not, or whether it's going to grow. What's more important, the other colleagues who discussed it, is the company's choice. So it's really out of 97,000 entities that have chosen 200 and that's the only guarantee that we have to have representatives, those who can do this job, not anyone who will. We're talking about some models about how we're going to evaluate the outside presence, meaning high school graduates and students. We will have to ask the last in a number of educations, and these are employers, but the reference list of employers will be publicly highlighted on the portal "Dosite" of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, so that everyone will be able to see that there will be only those companies that are carrying in their activities. Thank you. (Vladimir Djuric: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24649	You don't have a colleague's right to replicate. (Vladimir Djuric: Then by amendment.) ) According to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24650	I thank you for your answer. It's all right to choose employers, make a reference list, want to get the best and the best employers. I repeat an explicit question – whether the provision of Article 17(1) point 3 of pension and disability insurance applies to children in the dual education system, as Article 10 of which regulates the protection of students' rights does not say that students' rights will also be protected under the PIO Act. So, 70% of net minimumers, all right, do kids have PIO or don't they? Is the employer obliged to pay them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24651	Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to be legally correct. It's not about kids. (Zoran Krasic: What then? Here, the gentleman who throws it will confirm it. It's about minors. Children are considered up to 14 years old. Here the employer terminates the contract and I like the special attitude – if he loses student status. The point is to learn and train, not to work. These workers have only taken hold of themselves. These will work. Well, they should work. They should learn to work. I was taught when I was nine. They put a dime in your wake, so you're tearing your tail apart, and you're starting to appreciate the country, and you're starting to appreciate the country. You're starting to appreciate the work. (Radoslav Milojic: A rabbit. ) Here, the Charplans Association is getting back. I admit I lied, there were a million and 890,000 dinars, not two, so they like to earn. The point is to be brought up, not to jump on their professor. They can't be expelled from school, if they shut them down, then there's no 70%. So some kind of discipline will exist. Of those underage faces, you can tell the children they're going to be people. It's no shame to work, it's a shame not to work. It's a shame to be lazy. It takes every day to teach children, underage faces to be committed to learning, to work, to try to overcome their masters to be even better. This will benefit our country in a number of ways. We're going to import less, we're going to export more. When they go to Europe as masters, they will be appreciated and very easily found a job. They repeat the saying, the knowledge they acquire will be a fortune wherever they go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24653	Thank you. The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24654	Thank you. Article 25 refers to the conditions under which the contract is terminated by students, i.e. parents and other legal counsel. We have suggested that this member, as well as these others, is deleted, because the law is considered bad, because the bill's argument is based on the idea of the ideology of poverty, that Serbia's development is based on free child labour and that in folklore argument there is absolutely nothing to support that in two years' time, when applied, in 15 years' time, when we see the first results, it will look like successful models. What's the special problem with Article 25? Point 2, says – the student permanently loses his medical ability to work in the professions he is trained in. Where did he lose his health skills? Did he lose in the profession he's trained for or lost anywhere? A lucky accident or an accident? Three types of contracts are practically made here. A school contract, a child and an employer, an employer and a school, an employer and a child. Who's going to interpret this? Who's going to interpret that a 16-year-old lost his permanent health skills? The employer will say – so it happened in the workplace. The school will say - I don't know, he worked there. She'll be trusted to the child. Why, if you want to do it already, why don't you talk about a permanent loss of health skills? It can happen with a genetic disease, it can happen anywhere. No, I don't. You tell me here – the student permanently loses his health skills to work in the profession for which he is trained. We're making a problem for the kids and making a problem for us. My government, my ministry is having a problem. You open a space for completely unnecessary interpretations when it comes to a contract between employers and children. These are provisions when you read the light carefully, because the law you only know how to comment if you see a human being, a name and a last name, that you put through every member of the law and see what happens to it, what happens to it, when the law applies. This is the question, I'm not asking you to answer me, but please, when you do sublegal acts, make sure it doesn't work the way it does, that the only thing that really got hurt is a student or a 16-year-old student.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24655	Thank you. Just to inform the MPs and parliamentary group of the Democratic Party has spent time scheduled for this discussion. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarović, Vjerica Radet, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the same amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24656	It is a member who regulates the termination of the contract by students of a legal representative, or parents, that I do not now repeat our principled disagreement. However, for me, for example, it would be very interesting for a proposing representative to explain to us what it would look like in practice, for example, when it comes to the educational profile of a health technician or what we say to a nurse. It's a high-school medical school and since first grade it's been a practice to go to a hospital, clinic, Mr. Sarcevic, and they get practical knowledge there. Now I'm interested, how will the hospital pay them 91 dinars per hour, when our health care, you know what condition it is, or how the National Assembly will pay 91 dinars per hour to these boys waiters who are in practice in the National Assembly, when 91 dinars don't get these waiters what they do in the Assembly? That's, say, some practical questions we should be getting some answers on. Why, then, if we get quality answers, then we can advertise these professional professions and these educational profiles much louder. Otherwise, Mr. Sarčević, in Germany, the nurse is now a higher school or university. We have several of these colleges that educate that fit, but they are educated for Germany, not for Serbia, even Germany pays them a part of their education even though they pay for something private. The diplomas they get here are immediately certified, nosticized and in Germany, and that's a good example of dual education, if I may say so. But we can't provide that for waiters, for other nurses, as for auto mechanics, please explain to me, when even those who teach them classes in high schools don't know how to fix cars.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24657	Thank you. The People's Messenger LJupka Mihajlovski has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24658	Thank you. It remained unclear in the end whether the conclusion and termination of the contract could be carried out by a parent past the will of a student and a student past the will of a parent. Minister, as for any previous member, our amendment is - it is deleted, because we believe this law is not good, it will not do us any good. If you couldn't resist the desire of a man who, I believe, was very unproven, perhaps should have connected him to adult education, and then a bunch of young people, who didn't finish high school when it was time, first of all, for women in rural areas, could have been involved in this dual education and, in some way, allowed them possibly potential jobs, and to give new emerging young generations the opportunity to school for some more competitive positions. I deeply believe that this law is designed to figure out how to keep the ruling set in office longer, because it is currently being maintained by blackmailing employees to collect capillaries, and it will continue to be maintained by making new generations of young people and making them cheap labour, which will also be blackmailed with miserable profits. A man who is hungry, who is poor can't think, can't think and, of course, can't know what kind of situation he is in and how he should fight for a better position. So, once again, I ask you, on your behalf and on behalf of the parliamentary group, to give up this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24659	Thank you. The 25th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24660	The esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, this is where you say when a student contract is terminated and the government has well stated that, six reasons, which have been decoded, and other than that, are transparent. Since the former regime's party was due to pass this law on dual education 14 years or eight years ago, it had the opportunity and did not, and it brought the schooling of the Republic of Serbia to the lowest possible extent in the history of schooling and pedagogical ideas, and the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vucic, initiated the adoption of this law on dual education and which is a first-rate educational step, in order to give up further explanation of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24661	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24662	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this time a student and a parent. But what do we do, it looks like the story of mammals and mammals has brought some excitement among the ranks of these and they keep getting to me, but they can't distract me. You can only remain brought up if you prove it in conflict with the unsupervised. So, Mr. Chairman, there's no reason to intervene. A student can change his profession, for that reason he can decide to change schools. A 15-year-old person, if so, the minister can only, without holding hands for his parents, resolve and make a certain decision on his education. Maybe his school's getting better, he can change, he can want something else, which is very good. He can change the educational profile, because if he wants to do something that others do to him and he sees it going well and sees that he's skilled at it, he can do it, he can break the contract, which is certainly good, as it's good not to throw better than he does when he's talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24663	Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marijan Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kosic, Zoran Radojčić, Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24664	Thank you, Chairman. So, a member of the 25th that's talking about the end of the contract. With the amendment, we wanted, on condition, to strengthen the role of parents or guardians who could break the contract for any reason or without reason, at any time, because such a thing would be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where Article 65 says parents have the right and the duty to support, educate and educate their children. At the same time, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in Article 26(3), says parents have the primary right to choose the type of education for their child. You gave me an explanation here that the parent had the opportunity, at the moment of the contract, to see everything in that type of contract he expected, both him and his child. In Article 25, however, all of these factors are factors that he, of course, cannot know at first. That's why, and in order to comply with the Constitution, it was our idea to supplement this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24665	Thank you. The National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted the 25th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 26th and 26th Amendment, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24666	Thank you. If a learning contract is broken through work because the employer has violated his obligation, the school, instead of protecting the student, will continue to seek the same opportunity he had until then, which either will not be found in a small environment, or on the other hand, will not protect the student if the contract is broken because the employer roughly violated the contract referred to in Article 25. So, if the employer abuses the child, if abuses children in a way that does not stand in the agreement between the school and the employer himself, the penalty for the employer is in fact not there, it is between 50,000 and 100,000 dinars, and a harsh violation of this contract can even cause prison, or should, for a responsible person. So, this is another example that you absolutely don't care about children, but you are exclusively guided by the interests of the employer, who, in the worst case scenario, who will never be found to be such, can pay between 50,000 and 100,000 dinars, and some child can also be abused, tortured and humiliated. This is another example of the fact that the rights of those who conclude such contracts will absolutely not be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24667	On the 26th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radet, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the same amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24668	Article 26 refers to the likely legal consequences of the termination of the contract between the employer and the pupils. You already know that we have this conceptal disagreement, and I could explain a little something to you based on some personal experience, since my entire educational process has been followed by domestic violence, according to new terminology. Nor did God know what I loved about the book, so under violence I had to finish and graduate at 23 years old, just so they wouldn't talk to me at school anymore and don't talk to me. You laugh, laugh. Today, under these criteria, my father and mother would be on a life sentence. In this state we are today, so laugh on you. Now, Mr. Sarčević, when someone hears that 91 dinars can earn per hour, he's going to watch him go for that educational profile to school where he's going to have six classes a day, which is 500 and some dinars every day to pop into his pocket, tell his mom and dad -- I'm not a supported face, I can even support you, I have cigarettes for that too. But is he motivated to master these skills to be the best master in it, neither you nor any of us understandably have any guarantee. So this motivational factor of material nature is of passing character. Now let me tell you something, since I'm not really in the field of education or any education or education, I instructed my children by asking them to commit themselves to further education for that educational profile they love, which they want to do. The condition was to resist being the best in the business, so if you're a moller, if you're an atomic physicist, it doesn't matter, it's important that for the next 35-40 years you're happy to go do your job.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24669	Thank you, colleague Krasic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24670	Thank you. Article 26 of the proposed law on dual education regulates the consequences of the termination of a contract which may arise and for the reason that the employer does not fulfil its obligations under the learning contract through work. On the side that we haven't heard precisely what the employer's obligations are, the question remains, how will the country's legal system ensure that these obligations that the employer has failed to fulfil, so they ended the contract, and the employer ended up doing so? We are now coming to the conclusion that this may be done in a court of law and come to the issue of the judiciary. This is now one of the reasons why we oppose the adoption of this law at a time, at a time and in a situation where our legal system is currently in place. That is why I think it is important to say this – we are seeking the EU and we are calling for good European examples and good European practices, among other things, when it comes to dual education, but we are avoiding comparing the European judiciary and the Serbian judiciary. In the Serbian judiciary, the Society of Judges and the Prosecutors' Association has left the negotiating working group, which is discussing Chapter 23, because it is concerned about the proposal the government of the Republic of Serbia plans to implement into constitutional changes and is concerned about violating judicial independence. This is a very important thing. Employers in this country are opening jobs in close contact with political representatives, with authority, because they are subsidized jobs. This is why the influence on the judiciary is very large and let us not be naive and expect children to exercise their rights in such courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24671	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24672	Thank you. On the side of all the reasons for which we have already stated that we are not in favour of the adoption of this law, there is something in this article 26 and at all in the whole of the law, especially here that MPs from the Independent MPs Club are insinuating us. This law is as if it wasn't ever built for our cities, our local communities, at all inapplicable on the ground. We act like we all live in some industrial areas, where there are two, three, five, ten employers for some work, so if a contract with one employer is broken, nothing easier, we'll run to another employer and the student will be able to finish his education and qualify for some work. That's not true at all. In fact, if we look all over Serbia's territory, I don't know if in any local community we have two employers who are successfully looking at the same performance and who can meet these conditions. What really happens to a student who has to stop his education because the employer broke a contract one of the ways in Article 25? Should this student be educated over and over again, changing his performance, learning something new, and where is the end of it? So this law is not applicable to Serbia's territory, because our economy is weak, not to say extremely bad, regardless of all stories and fairy tales. I ask you, Mr. Minister, if you can answer me that question, what's going on, here's a colleague from Srlig, in some Srlig where, say, the conditions for performing a dual education of a student, the employer has broken and now how many, say, employers in any work for which students are trained?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24673	Thank you. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24674	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, already said in Article 25, when the contract is terminated, however, this Article 25 states what school is obliged to provide the student with if it comes to it. First of all, he's looking for another employer with whom the school made a deal. Since this law on dual education is complemented by the law that we have recently passed here, it actually stems from it, on the basis of a system of education and education, I believe that one and another law is really the basis for reforming education and education which the predecessors were supposed to implement and are not, which makes it an integral part of the modernisation of Serbia that SNS is conducting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24675	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this member of the school, it is mandatory to organize a student, so to speak, a second chance. In this regard, let me say that the person who turned 15 of his life who is capable of reasoning can decide which high school he will attend, purely because of those who shout. So, this second chance is, let's say, if you have a cook who learns to bake meat, bake cakes, etc., for some reason being a broken contract, he has the right to another opportunity. It's very valuable for our country. I'll set an example. In the most difficult winter days, at the most difficult time for the state of Serbia, we didn't have enough chefs who were skilled to roast the ox, so I was in Jahorina, where I was for patriotic reasons, watching the leadership of the party of the former regimes that now deny it, not this, but what was patrioticly defined, this now denies that role, that because of the lack of a good cook who knows how to bake the ox, they had to go to Jahorin, ahead of just bombing, in action waiting for NATO, waiting to eat the roasted ox at the Palace, all because of the lack of a good cook, they were bound to, and that can confirm, say, Mr. Micovic, who is far younger, Mile Korican who was the deceased there, but there are people from the Kings who know that. So, not all of the former regime's parties were so unpatriots, and for God's sake they were interested in good chefs and hence Radovan Karadzic organised them, as a good cook, a good host, a roasted Serb ox. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24677	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go. Your question was interesting. Believe it or not, there are already 14 industrial zones in Serbia. When it came to selecting profiles and types of equipment, both cities and companies, it was taken into account. I'll give you a few examples. When it comes to the interest of a trader, let's say, we have eight companies in Chačka, I can read to you, however you will, but it would take a long time, fashion tailor in Cačka – three companies, a furniture operator in Kralje – six companies. So wherever trade and furniture operators appear and mentioned textile profiles are represented everywhere more. Becay - three companies for the interest of a trader. It's the same in Novi Sad. There are three companies in Valjev for the merchant. Your fashion tailor is in the Odjaks two companies. There are four companies for the merchant in Sombor. The furniture manufacturer in Sremska Mitrovica is nine companies, in Užica 12 companies. So we already have a choice. If we ignore the fact that we will gradually introduce it, that it is not the goal of turning it into some form that we do not have, the goal was to make order in something that already exists and started in 2013, with the expectation that this story would happen in another direction. Thank you. (Sonja Pavlovic: Replica. ) You have no right to a replica. On behalf of Chapter IV, titled above Articles 27 and 27, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24679	Thank you. The Chamber of Commerce has taken over education policy to lead in Serbia, and we think it is very bad, because the Chamber of Commerce is made up of private companies aimed at profit. The Ministry of Education cannot aim at profiting private companies and private companies. The Ministry of Education must aim at what society will look like in the next 30 or 40 years. So one of the few things that was good when Napoleon set out to conquer Europe is the Code of Civilian, a civil code that was subsequently prescribed in national states, which guaranteed the rights of the youngest to have decent education for themselves, for their years, for their future. So, today in the 21st century, Serbia is absolutely giving up civil rights when it comes to the youngest and the goal is for companies to gain more profits. So that's what Serbia found itself in the government of Alexander Vukic, after all, and that's what's devastating and devastating for our future, for all the children who come from different parts of Serbia whose parents don't have the money to pay for their schooling. They will eventually live in poor environments today, and in the coming period they will be even poorer. Disparities in Serbia's development will be even bigger than they are today. Those poor municipalities will be poorer, and those who are rich in municipalities and cities will be richer. Such a Serbia has no theoretical chance of survival in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24680	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24681	Napoleon, speaking of which, he could say -- there's one crime without punishment, which is when you take away other people's time, you spend it in madness. Now, that's exactly what we've been seeing here and now in this explanation that's supposed to mean it's hard to determine exactly what. Another tiradu, yes, I'm just thinking about what they like to earn, those beautiful, nice and cultural people. Did they find out who Nadezhda Petrovic was, among other things? No, they're not. Okay, I didn't expect them to find out. They're talking again about some kind of fair approach, equality in society, and the fight against discrimination. Right? People who have discovered that there is equality in chance and equality in living conditions, only when the people's decision has deprived them of any responsibility for taking care of the state. Why? Because they have shown that they are completely incapable of taking care of the state, who have proved their inability in the worst possible way, by introducing exactly that inequality in the chances and precisely these proportions in living conditions, by destroying the opportunity and perspective for many young people in this country, by personally being responsible for hundreds of thousands of lost jobs, by sending their parents to the streets and on these topics, here and today, very nicely, as I see them having fun. (Radoslav Milojic: A bunny? ) Here is one who is personally responsible, for example. For the destruction, the devastation of his own local self-government, which he managed and owed four billion dinars, every honor, it still has a lot of fun, it still smiles and shows its fingers, and it's all wonderful, beautiful and fun. It wouldn't be bad if he met a young man from that local self-government, who he had so beautifully and thoroughly destroyed, he asked him if he was funny when he was hungry, when he was cold, when he had no electricity and no water. He may draw certain conclusions on the subject, what's wrong with who in this country...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24682	You're finishing up, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24683	... And so I end up, funny, what fun and what chances they've left for people behind. Thank you very much. [[Balsa Bozovic: Do I have the right to replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24684	Based on what, colleague Bozovic? I don't know, a colleague of yours was throwing a bunny or something. (Radoslav Milojičić: The rabbit is from yours, not from our parliamentary group. ) On Article 27 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs together, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandić, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandar Cabraja and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24685	We've been asking for the delete and the 27th, as well as the erasure of all the members because this is a very bad bill of law. Then they tell us from the ministry that they don't accept our amendment, and that's article 27 on the register of dual education contracts. They do not accept our amendment since there is a need and justification for keeping a register containing the above information. If our amendment is aimed at explaining why this law should not be passed, then this explanation is completely out of the context of the proposed amendment. I've noticed something from the Minister, for several hours, that your behaviour with regard to the MPs who speak of the amendment. It's not nice for you ministers to discriminate against the MPs. You have something to say to every comment of the MPs in power, and we opposition MPs explain to the public for two days, first of all, how devastating this proposal for a law on dual education is and you have nothing to say about it. They taught you well that the time you use according to the amendment goes into the total fund of time provided for in the Rules of Procedure for Amendments and calculates is overruling this with dual education, about these next three laws no one will be able to say a word, because all along the amendments, according to the disastrously bad DS Rules of Procedure, which you have accepted, and continued to apply, we will actually deny the public for our serious objections and for these next laws. This register that you predicted regarding dual education means absolutely nothing, especially because of the fact that it's being run in the Chamber of Commerce. You didn't explain, at least to us Serbian radicals, you didn't convince us why the Chamber of Commerce was even involved in this business?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24686	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has the People's MP Balša Bozovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24687	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, the best Rules of Procedure is exactly the one that brought the DS. The fact that Aleksandar Vucic, Tomislav Nikolic, Vojislav Seselj was not in Serbia at the time, as representatives of the SRS, obstructed the work of parliament and the European path of Serbia, actually allowed Serbia to have a faster process of reform and a faster approach to the EU than was the intensity of radicals at the time. What is being abused is not the Rules of Procedure's fault, because those who chair the sessions, and primarily, not Mr. Arsic, he too, but to a much smaller extent, but Maja Gojkovic, as president of the National Assembly, abuses every day the Rules of Procedure on Labour. Then the public gets the impression that the Rules of Procedure is bad. No, the Rules of Procedure are great, one of the best Rules of Procedures in Europe right now has this Parliament, we are proud of it. If it were applied and respected and not abused, then the Rules of Procedure would indeed allow Serbia to be more polite, at least in this House, than is currently the case with those who run this House. So it could not happen that when the most important law on Serbia's future is discussed, the president of the National Assembly shows bruises on his body. So it's an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and it can't happen in this House, and those who run the session, of course, allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24688	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24689	It is also the matter of the Rules of Procedure and the jurisdiction that Alexander Vukic, Maja Gojkovic and the parliamentary majority are to blame. Just to determine exactly what ladies and gentlemen are for, for when he becomes an MP of the yellow company hysterically roaring into the microphone and then in a direct TV broadcast he curses the mother of the president of the assembly. Then it is her or Alexander Vukic or someone from the parliamentary majority who is responsible for this courtesy and this Rules of Procedure. Or when one of the MPs here again, the yellow company here, yells that they're gonna break someone's head and call him down the hall. Someone calls a horse, whether it was like that, loved, cattle or garbage, it's either us or maybe Maja Gojkovic or the best Alexander Vukic from their perspective. They're looking at each other strangely, they have no idea. Or those injuries we mentioned when someone physically assaulted the president of the National Assembly, and that someone, miraculously, again thanks to the great efforts to build the democratic capacity of the yellow company and come to the National Assembly, because they, they seem to have invited their sympathisers and voters to introduce you and such people into the National Assembly, so we are probably to blame us or Aleksandar Vukic or Maja Gojkovic. We ourselves asked for someone to come and physically scrambling at us, who would turn women's hands, who, what they had done, also phenomenally, would punch women in the face with their fists. That's right, it's all our responsibility, not those who brought them into the National Assembly, who did it on purpose, with a clear desire to bring such things here, with a clear desire for such things to happen to us. Why us? Perhaps because these people are obviously not able to compete in another way with those who are obviously better and more successful and who the people and they love and understand and support, therefore, all the opposite of what a yellow company deserves, which only deserved to be a yellow company when it's not a yellow gang or a yellow cartel, because of that courtesy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24690	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24691	Of course, the colleague who first signed up for the replica didn't have to, let's not say that there was no basis, because then I would go in violation of the Rules of Procedure, and especially because of the fact that we Serbian radicals think that the replicas are an excellent form of communication between both the MPs and the MPs. He said he was a colleague of the Rules of Procedure, the best in Europe. Well, it's only then that I'm surprised you don't get into Europe with such a good Rules of Procedure. But it's about something else. You don't have to applaud what Democrats have made to move faster into Europe, and despite what you've made a party for them, you've left it in the amanet and this Rules of Procedure. A Rules of Procedure which is the most undemocratic Rules of Procedure that can exist in a parliament. The Rules of Procedure, where the MP is limited, that he can speak for two minutes about one amendment, that he can speak for two minutes about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that limited time is in principle debate, that, in fact, only the ruling majority has all the time possible because, of course, they have the most MPs and no one is slow. But you've made this Rules of Procedure when you thought you'd be a majority authority, so now, of course, it bothers you, because you've been punished by that Rules of Procedure and you don't have the opportunity to speak like the rest of us, and they've now accepted this Rules of Procedure and for five years now it's actually been done by the Interim Rules of Procedure, because every assembly of Parliament should, as the Vice-Presidents, the Presidents, the Secretary, be replaced by the Rules of Procedure. I'm done. So this is the worst Rules of Procedure, and you who think, who you've grabbed, who think you'll rule most of the time, will pass as well as those on this side very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24692	Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24693	So once again, I stand by that this is the best Rules of Procedure that ever existed in this House. He prevents the obstruction of the assembly, he defends democracy. The SRS has been trying to block Serbia on its way to the EU in every way possible, so that is something that was definitely a big problem. This Rules of Procedure, when applied by those who are not Democrats, those who do not advocate democracy, those who break laws and constitutions, then we can say that it is their fault, not their Rules of Procedure, not these books. So what's important is that you know that the Constitution can be the best in the world if it's broken by the ruling majority it won't exist. They can be the best laws in the world, but if there's no rule of law, then those laws are a dead letter on paper. That's how this Rules of Procedure is a dead letter on paper, because it's being abused. Here, for a moment I said and mentioned radicals, as I do now, and the replica was given to someone from the ruling majority, it seems to me to be the deputy head of the SNS Parliament Club. So, it's an abuse somewhere because I mentioned the period when Aleksandar Vukic was in the SRS, I didn't mention SNS as bad, nor him as president of the Republic of Serbia. Now, that's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. So, there is little evidence of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and it is not the Rules of Procedure's fault, but it is those who conduct the sessions, first of all, the President of the Maya Gojkovic Assembly, who daily abuses the Rules of Procedure to become a star in this House and, of course, among the wider masses of the people, since it constantly degrades both this House and the MPs of the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24694	You're bringing the end. Since I, too, was even called here in this replica that I unwarrantedly gave my colleague Orlic. (Balsa Bozovic: No, I said in general. ) The right to replica was given to fellow Orlic because this Rules of Procedure came from a time when Aleksandar Vukic was not even a national MP, and applied to the maximum extent that you can allow us. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24695	Although I can already see that it's going to be unclear again, right, what he did, so he caused the replica, and he has no idea what that means, by this very Rules of Procedure, who praises so much, when you mention some MP group or party or party president, he doesn't have a clue. Here, you're surprised. This Rules of Procedure, so good, so great, which so praises, seems to be only now beginning to reveal slowly, only now begins to read it, here today, in this session as it discusses it. So my question was - decency and dignity. Great, just what's the example? Is it an example, when an MP from the ranks of those who care for decency and dignity, stands up in a microphone to hear all of Serbia, to be recorded in direct transmission, cursing the president of the National Assembly, is that decency and dignity? Is that what he can earn, take away his word, is that what he deserves to apply that Rules of Procedure and get a warning? As far as I'm reading this Rules of Procedure, it certainly is, and then it's abuse. It's not an abuse, it's, ladies and gentlemen, insolence, haughtiness, it's the insolence of those who have imagined, themselves, that the gods on earth are literally able to do everything, that everything in this world is allowed to them, that, even, and what is elemental rudeness, inaccuracy, inhumane and uncivilized behavior, anywhere in this world. The man on the street to stop, if he hadn't seen this Rules of Procedure in his life and asked him if such behaviour was right, he would have said – he didn't. It's an elemental thing, it's a courtesy. What they apply, this kind of boastfulness, violence, every man will tell you – that is not good. And, now, get up and say – someone here is abusing something. Ladies and gentlemen, the only abuse we witnessed was the abuse of an opportunity to destroy and destroy this country and this people, and he only used it for his own whim, his own boss and his own well-being, and everything else was thoroughly destroyed and ruined. He's better off not answering again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24697	I speak on the basis of Article 27, and indeed, Mr. Arsic, watch when you hold a session to watch a little, let's say, in the direction of the SRS parliamentary group. We won't give you any signs when you need to break up, or when you don't need to break up. Really, it's not fair, every time you make a big mistake when you start a circle of replicas, every time a replica has to end someone in power. In particular, I understand who you are head of the parliamentary group and I understand that the parliamentary group and that MPs should have certain discipline, etc., but you are there, except that you are an MP, you are here at the moment the President of Parliament, who is changing the president and you cannot say, Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as if you have just woke up, and you are finishing up, and we have all seen what eyes we have, and we have, thank God, as it is said to you – break up. It can't be done, Mr. Arsic, and now you've caused it to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, maybe someone else should, now we should all use the Rules of Procedure, so we should show how you obstruct the work of the National Assembly. If you'd allowed another replica, two possible, we could've done it nicely and moved on. Look, take care of this Rules of Procedure the worst in the world, the worst in Europe, the worst in the world, but respect at least what it says in that Rules of Procedure and act like an MP who was an opposition, and who will soon be again very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24698	Comrade Radeta, why are you mad at me when everyone who asked for a word gets a word? And why didn't I get the word? ) There was no longer any basis for replication. (Miss Radeta: You didn't get a good estimate.) I didn't get a good estimate? Okay, here's the deal. I didn't get a good estimate. (The Verse of Radeta: I ask that the Assembly declare itself on Voting Day.) ) Should the Assembly declare themselves in the day of the vote? All right. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24699	Mr. Arsic, I am advertising Article 107, because you were obliged when Balsa Bozovic spoke to interrupt him because he told the lie, although you, Mr. Arsic, are at the post of vice president someone who is sticking to this Rules of Procedure, which our people would say - as a drunk float. I simply think that you are a little more educated than Bozovic, so that you know that this is by all democratic standards and principles the worst Rules of Procedure. For those who do not know, in developed countries with a long democratic tradition, not that it is not such a Rules of Procedure and not that laws are passed in this way and do not call upon the National Assembly, but in these countries there is a first reading of the law, is so, Mr. Minister, the second reading of the law, comes before the competent committees, then goes to plenary debate and there is much more time to consider the amendments, and that you justify that the Democratic break, or that yellow enterprise, has brought hundreds of laws that are not inapplicable, but are now directly affecting the very bad lives of our citizens such as the laws, is it so Mr. Jojic, on the executive procedure, so private perpetrators can skin the citizens, so people are scribbling, so the labour laws that have been passed, so all the so-called system laws that have been translated. We even had the recognition of the then-president of parliament, including the people of the government, from the Democratic Party, that many laws, and from this Misčevićka, which you have now taken over into your wing, translated from other countries, were taken from those who have hurried into the EU, and such laws are now being implemented in our country, and citizens have great damages. So, not only is it not in line with democratic principles, it simply offends the tradition of this congregation home. If you want, I'll go to our rich treasure house of the congregation library and get you what the debates looked like and what the Rules of Procedure was between the two world wars.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24700	I don't understand where I broke the Rules of Procedure about Article 107? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: The Dignity of the National Assembly. The Dignity of the Congregation? All right. It may be as you say, but here they could all replicate and have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and now I'd like to proceed with the amendments. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I ask that the National Assembly be declared in voting day. ) The assembly will declare itself in the voting day. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24701	Thank you, Mr. President. As for all the other members, we have also submitted an amendment to delete this member of the law, because we believe that the law is terribly bad and that there is no amendment that can be corrected. Before introducing dual education, we advise the minister, the ministry and all other actors involved in education in our society to make a thorough reform of education in Serbia. We who worked in education are aware that children who are functionally illiterate come to us from primary schools. Among them, unfortunately, there are students who finish primary school with excellent success. You have wolves who, unfortunately, come to high school and who don't know they're thinking, who don't know that they think even though they have great grades, all fives, even some of Wolf's diplomas, so in this case we see that the rating didn't measure the knowledge and hyperproduction of wolves, great students can't be good at all. Before applying and introducing dual education, every reform is a good thing that is aimed at obtaining the functional education of our students because unless we have students who are trained to think, who can't tell right from wrong, who can't apply the knowledge they learned and acquired in elementary school, then you don't have active citizens of this society. Leonardo da Vinci said that learning never exhausts the mind, so I ask you to create such a reform where learning will be the pleasure of students. It takes a lot of prejudice that students don't like to learn. The students like to learn, but they like to learn interesting and quality content. Modernize the programs and introduce attractive content students will enjoy. It will be a fundamental reform of education. Without that, you can't and don't approach dual education. It's not going to be effective, it's not going to be good, and it's going to do huge damage to our education system, which, you're aware of yourself, is pretty much down, very bad, even though education is one of the creative foundations not only of our own, but of every other society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24702	Thank you. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, first move that drink there. That vine to get away, because my fellow farmer can't get in. He's being treated. If you can get that thing out of the ranks of the party of the former regime, that whiskey, the whiskey, what is it. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, documents and Chamber of Commerce, contracts, that's good, to know how many chefs, tailors, how many cooks, tailors, scrapers, rodents we'll have. It's good to have a record. The family is recognized, recognized and recognized by the leader. Imagine, and I was his favorite MP, imagine a man who went for patriotic reasons, the truth for the sake of trying that roasted ox on the Palace. Imagine now if he could see, I think he'd turn three times in his grave if he saw who represented him. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we must also have records for good chefs, for good masters, welders, welders, so we know exactly what we have, what we will have in the future, that we can see what are economic opportunities and troubles, and what education can give us, that we can coordinate that. Without physical labor, there's nothing. Well done with mind work, good honor to architects, good honor to IT engineers, but I'm still claiming that without that master, that without these golden hands, there's nothing we can do about it. Imagine, if we had that record, we wouldn't have to ask Tajjetin Tajji to come from Turkey, from New York Avenue to sew a 10,000-euro suit, and even this one who's yelling wouldn't have to go to the London department store and to Maldives to see a good cook and buy a good suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24704	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24705	Your Honor, it's a register run by the Chamber of Commerce on these contracts, and I think it's an extremely good solution. In order to avoid confusion, contracts are run by the school, especially pedagogical schools are worried inside, but it's a good thing the Chamber of Commerce is running it. We heard today and yesterday all day, MPs of the former regime constantly criticise the Chamber of Commerce and its participation in education and education, especially in dual education. With this in mind, I apologize to all those teachers, teachers, students, and parents who are involved in education and education, which former regime MPs do not know that economic chambers, schools and employers are involved in improving and implementing modern education and education in the world. Everyone knows that, most parents and those who are involved in education and education, and here are our deputies from the former regime who don't know that, because that's how they want us back in the Middle Ages. So, I think this member is well-conceived and I thank you in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24706	The names above Articles 28 and 28 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24707	Thank you. It's a national letter, of course. I have an identity that is in line with the election case of half of which I was born, and I also know the Serbian language, where the nouns match by number, gender and fall, which for Article 28 could not stand. Why did we propose to delete Article 28? Of course, because we believe that the whole proposal for a law on dual education is bad, that in no way can the ideology of poverty and poverty contribute to Serbia's development by using free child labour and cannot be replaced by fiction and folklore by serious dialogue in the development of education in society. It's a shame in common and we won't give up trying to reduce the damage. Article 28 speaks about enrolment in the register and whether or not you accept erasure, you here have both a second attitude and the first problem with two subjects related to registers, electronic form and printed form. The first is the Personal Data Protection Act. The second position of this member, which he says, is that a copy of the contract referred to in Article 1 may be delivered by the employer in printed or electronic form. Not that it's impossible for an electronic form to have a copy, but it's unlikely. The copy refers to the printed form when you have the original, you have the original contract, you have the original copy, you have the stamp, you have everything, then you do the copy, then you verify, so as it goes. So, what would be a copy in electronic form? It'll be a little trouble to apply when you do sublegals. If it's meant to be delivered either in electronic form or made a copy of printed form, so it scans, then we have a problem, because we didn't understand anything about what e-Government is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24708	First, I have to answer to my colleague, Comic, that I am sorry that I do not have your courage and knowledge to oppose the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language at the Serbian Academy of Sciences. Really, I don't, and I'm sorry about that, so I'm still gonna follow their rules. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is given by MP Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24709	Thank you, Chairman. I think you've made a mistake and violated article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly, because you allow the use of words that do not exist in Serbian, so that the word MPs are not recognised in political terms, but only the word MP. But, note, in the New Testament, there is a letter from the apostle Paul, which is addressed to the Romans, the Corinthians, the Galatians, the Ephesians, the Philippines, the Kolashites, and the Thessalonians. Therefore, the MP can choose where he would like to be found in these letters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24710	Comrade Rancic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, nor the grammatical rules, nor do I intend to spoil the purity of the Serbian language, and the MPs have the right to request that they be called privately as they please. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Gordana Komic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24711	Thank you. You have violated the Rules of Procedure of 27 and 107 in addressing a direct colleague, a MP, with your personal emotional views on what I have or do not have the courage. You can defend your position unfounded or justified, it is your right and as the chairman and you as an MP, as I defend my position to know who I am, to know that I am a woman and to speak in a language in which gender, number and fall agree. It doesn't take courage to do the right thing, and if it wasn't in Serbia and around the world 100 years ago there were women brave enough to say - I'm a woman and I have rights, I'm half of humanity, and I want half of everything, there wouldn't be any women sitting here, there wouldn't be a single people's letter, and there would be a common shame for both Serbia and the MPs and for the MPs and for all those who think that better than women know what it's called, what it should think, what attitude it should have and what it should do. I totally understand, I understand that you have the fear of women being in politics, but that's what you're thinking. We'll just be more and more, all the way up to one letter, the president, the vice president and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24712	I don't understand your violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, I just said I didn't have the courage to fight the Serbian Academy of Sciences and especially that the reporter of the Serbian language standardisation committee was a woman. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojić, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić, Jasmina Nikolic, and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24713	Article 28 speaks about enrolment in the register. Indeed, and if we weren't absolutely against the adoption of a law on dual education, it would have to be intervened here. It happens that two laws are in collegiate and the law is going to be in collegiate with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but here we have a collage of two members, members of the 27th and members of the 28th. It's just amazing. You say the employer is obliged to deliver a dual education contract to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Of course, there's a special story that mixing the Chamber of Commerce into this business is a great source of corruption, but that's what we're talking about and we're going to do. So, you say -- it is up to the employer to deliver a dual education contract to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and then in Section 2. — a copy of that contract may be delivered by the employer in printed or electronic form. Before that, in article 27, you say that this register is run as a unique electronic database. So how is it possible to deliver a copy of this contract in printed form? It's simply not in line with this previous member that you've predicted this unique electronic database. Of course, it will remain to the end of this debate unclear why the Chamber of Commerce is involved in this business, but believe me, if God doesn't come to the end of this law, we sincerely hope that, very soon, only a few months after that, the paper will be full of information about corruption between employers and the Chamber of Commerce. Stop it, pull this bill, Mr. Charcetice.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24714	Thank you. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24715	Thank you. We also again demand that this member of the dual education law be deleted and appealed to another root reform, which is beyond the need of our education system, from preschool, through primary school education, to high school education. You must set up an education to be such that it builds the intelligence and character of our students. I'm calling here to quote Martin Luther King, who said intelligence plus character is the same goal that means safe in real education. The goal of every education is and should be to build the character of a student. Dual education, as foreseen by the law, cannot build the character of a student or cultivate the positive potential of every student. This law makes disciples slaves, real students, makes future people who don't know they think, who are afraid, who will be exclusively directed to one action, who won't be able to develop. Any society that hinders the development of its individuals cannot be good, cannot be a righteous society. Dual education, as imagined, cannot provide just conditions and a fair starting position for all students. So I ask you once again, knowing, unfortunately, that you will not do so, but I urge you and I urge you to withdraw this law from the procedure and, above all, to approach the radical reform of our education, not to introduce a dual education, which no positive shift will make, but rather, that it will destroy and humiliate the already devastated educational system in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24716	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24717	Thank you. On the side of that, Mr. Minister, which I think the Chamber of Commerce should be an alpha and an omega of education, we've talked about this many times. In this article, what is controversial is this copy of the contract referred to in Article 1 – the employer may deliver in printed or electronic form. I've already asked you once, Mr. Minister, if the ministries are communicating with each other, because here we are, almost ten days away, we've passed the Electronic Business Act. We have here in Article 27. – The register referred to in Article 1(1) shall be conducted as a unique electronic database. So it's defined how to run an electronic business, which is an electronic document, and now suddenly we have in print a copy of the contract. So that shouldn't happen. If we passed one law, it wasn't adopted in another country there, it was adopted here, I say for almost ten days, then we have to go all the way and respect that law. We can't deny this law to an e-business law, and I really think this is a place that should be corrected in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24718	Thank you. Members of the 28th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24719	Dear Vice President, this is about the instructor. So it is very good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this Article 29 has set out four elements that the instructor should possess...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24720	Twenty-eight, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24721	I'm sorry, Article 28, and that's eight days, it's been working for eight days. So let me once again say that the contract is very important. So it contains elements that the employer needs to meet, and on the other hand, which school should meet. All of the criticism related to the Chamber of Commerce is not good, because the very modern concept of education and education in the world is based on the fact that chambers, schools and employers, as three factors very important in dual education, assume their responsibility. Why? Because in the future we get better education and education, and all in terms of better productivity and better earnings for our future workers, in general. The former regime's party takes the opposite. These are really two concepts very different. The SNS therefore advocates a more modern and quality education in which production and economic relations will be the first priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24722	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24723	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the contract must be delivered within eight days to the Chamber of Commerce. It's good that as soon as we know what we can expect, what profiles, what professions. It's especially important because of rare crafts, rare professions. Like a jeweler, a ship builder, a jeweler. I'll state the practical reasons. He doesn't have to buy 50,000-euro watches abroad and spend 200,000 euros on it. Our jewelers and jewelers and officers can join together, open the store and make that watch and a timer for general pleasure. I believe they'll do even better than abroad, and that's how we'll get a brand, so to the pride of our elite, who robbed the people, we'll get a chance to get some of the craftsmen they robbed, whose fathers they robbed, some of the money back through those rare trades. That's why we need to know what profiles we're going to have and that these rare crafts come as soon as possible, because that's where the money's going to stay, and then those workers are going to spend it here not going to go outside for the labour force, so they're going to leave VAT, excises in the pump store, so they're going to grow budgets, they're going to grow expenditures, pensions and wages, etc., and that's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24724	Thank you. On behalf of Glava V, the name above Articles 29 and 29 of the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24725	Thank you, Vice President Arsic. So Article 29 speaks of instructors who will train children who will be in factories. Among other things, when it comes to the competences of instructors, it is said that the instructor in co-operation with the learning coordinator through work realizes, guides and oversees learning through the work of the employer. Mr. Sarčević, that's what people are finishing some colleges for, so they've been schooling for four years so they can lead their studies, organize learning through work, etc. I know in your country these colleges last a lot shorter. You get that early one morning, you graduate, you get your doctorate, you get your master's degree, you get whatever you need at that point. When we talk about modern trends in the world of education, when you are referring to the education development strategy by 2020 for which you are transferring us, you need to know that even those teachers in high school didn't have enough pedagogical training, education from pedagogy, and so on. So they can work with the kids. You now want someone who, as we see in the next article, has completed a 40-hour training, Mr. Minister, to trust them to teach children anything. I don't know, you're a pedagogue, you've worked at school, and it's just amazing that you trust someone who's completed a 40-hour training with such an important job, such as teaching, teaching supervision with an employer. Indeed, people have been schooling for years so they can educate children, not 40 hours, even for your terms, it's a little too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24726	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24727	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore I would not object to what the concept of this law is, even in this section concerning instructors and coordinators. So it's about a person who, of course, undergoes certain training in order to manage the training of students, but it's understood that it's about a person who rules business and knowledge in his profession. That is what is basic and only such a man can teach a young man, a student, that profession, and so on. Also, I stress, in this process of education there is another person, and that is the coordinator and that they are co-workers and that they follow together. What's missing, conditionally speaking, instructor, is owned by a coordinator, because he's a school man, he comes from the field of pedagogy and methodology. After all, they together follow the development of students through learning, through work and gaining competence and together participate in grading. Therefore, let us not idealize, learning through work is a direct learning through the technological process, and it takes a man, or expert who knows the job, and there is an instructor to complement and successfully lead students to the ultimate acquisition of competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24728	Thank you. On the 29th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Nikolic Vukalović and Zoran Krasic, together by Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivković, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24729	Article 29 speaks of the instructor and explains how it is and what face the instructor is. Among other things, you say that it is a person who has trained as an instructor and has a certificate of the submitted examination for the instructor, in the following text – license. So then you say, the instructor in the study process through the work co-operates with the learning coordinator through the work, so there is a coordinator. Well, then about the number of students, etc. What are the important questions here? This instructor, will he be employed by that employer? Is the employer going to pay him, too, or is he going to be paid by someone in the budget, in a way? What kind of benefactor is an employer who has come to Serbia so far who will take for some change those children to work through dual education and that instructor to pay for it? Who's gonna give those licenses? Whose cost are these instructors licensed? Isn't it better, isn't it more normal what we have today? Professional school, regular classes, general objects, professional subjects and people masters, engineers, depending on who the profile is, to teach these young people the trade, if they really want to finish the trade? This is something that's really inapplicable. Now, the simplest I can tell you, this is inapplicable and believe me, Minister, I'll see you here very soon to discuss the amendments and additions to this law. You didn't see...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24730	Bring in the end of your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24731	Here, I'm done. You haven't seen the real situation, and this is one of the evidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24732	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24733	Thank you. This instruction without serious pedagogical knowledge, I really don't think it should be accepted, especially by the Ministry, because then the Ministry is in college. Here, there is not half a year since two generations of the Music Academy, the final students of the Music Academy in Belgrade, who also finished mastering and worked by people for three or four years, had to return to the student benches and because of the wrong score on Bologna compared to the generations that came after them, had to listen further and take pedagogical courses to be able to do their jobs. So, we're talking about graduate students of the Music Academy with masters of diplomas, people who work in professional schools. So they had to go further, no matter what they listened to, to satisfy that form prescribed by the Ministry and to listen again to the pedagogical objects they listened to, but they were wrongly hit. So, because of the mistake, they had to turn the whole cycle one more time. We're now saying that someone will be able to educate 15-year-olds with some pedagogical-dedactic course. I think it's really inadmissible and you shouldn't allow it, Mr. Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24734	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24735	Thank you. We do not need dual education, but we need a comprehensive reform of our outdated and unfair education system. In that sense, I would like to thank the Minister for responding a little while ago to the appeals from our PG, assuring the public that the reform has already begun. We'll follow. We'll let you know how it goes. The most important question now is – will there be free textbooks within this reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24736	The 29th amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24737	Dear Vice President, this is about the instructor, the four characteristics he has to possess, and it's really an extraordinary combination. The co-ordinator in charge of dual education at school is an instructor in an enterprise where he learns through work and work. It's an extremely good combination. But I'm shocked by Mr. Minister and Mr. Vice President, when an MP from the former regime says that better students will think if they don't go to practice. Well, she, a folk MP who has a Ph.D. in creativity, also killed the Horseman. I apologize to teachers, teachers, primary and secondary schools and colleges. Those are the unheard words spoken tonight in this high house. It is just the opposite, the SNS and the minister who has an extremely rich experience in this part, they argue that our students own both practical and theoretical teaching to achieve the best results, not only in learning but also in work, and then have better income in the future. So, once again, I'm really amazed, like we're two worlds. In fact, we are a world of work, order and discipline, and others are a world of unhappiness, irresponsibility and indiscipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24738	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24739	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, being a dual education instructor will be a great honor for both the employer and the employee. Especially at the price should be inspectors for rare occupations, jewelers, jewelers. To keep those 500,000 euros in the country, which the president of the former regime gave for watches and timers. The second thing, tailors of expensive suits, why don't we have our Tajjetin to sew together suits, and hundreds of thousands of euros, which together with Miskovic, that the president of the former regime, in a people known as the grabper, would remain in the country. The wealth that they have contrived by producing injustice, misfortune, poverty has made it even worse for both children and parents. Since this is a wealth that has been accumulated by poverty, they have afforded themselves unnecessary things without which they can, but that is why they have produced poverty. Here, the creator of the Rules of Procedure throws, from the party of the former regime. They piled up a fortune they didn't need, and that made society poor. This brings money back to the poor, so that they can buy goods at the supermarket, that for making expensive watches they get good pay and that they spend, the state will have 20% immediately in its cash register through VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24740	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24741	I'm obliged to say, again, that we didn't prescribe from the Germans, from the Austrians, because there are no co-ordinates in learning through work. Except for this practical part, the very instructors from the companies that have no teaching or calling or experience at all. So, the combination of these two men who will work with young people complete both images and opportunities. So the best practical knowledge will show a man who knows best how to work that machine. It's him, he writes in the law, pays the employer. The license he needs to get paid by the Chamber. Learning Coordinator is our teacher from secondary vocational education who has acquired all pedagogical titles and is paid by the state, Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Take just an example in the Law of High, recently adopted in this Assembly, that we have introduced a class of lecturers from working relationship or in jargon an industrial lecturer, in many branches of industry, especially in the IT sector you have people who work extremely well, such as Microsoft companies and others, who are also eager to replace the lack of teacher staff that this profession requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24742	Thank you. The 29th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24743	Thank you. It says here that these instructors who are going to train our children have 40 hours of training and that's about all these people have learned about pedagogy, working with children, teaching methods, everything other people who do other professions learn for years in colleges that they attend. The big problem, right now in all the associations dealing with education in our country, about which Mr. Risticevic who advocates you wouldn't know anything, is that even in those professorial ways teaching methods is not treated properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24744	Comrade Rističević, do not disturb the minister while she speaks to her colleague Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24745	Students, since teachers don't get enough classes from pedagogical classes, from courses that would help them work with children tomorrow, and teachers in secondary schools almost don't have such classes at all, and that's why a whole campaign is being conducted, the EU is giving money to those teachers who aren't at school now somehow train to work with children, to introduce teaching courses, and that they don't get into those classrooms, not to work with children, without being prepared for children's work. What are you offering this law now? You're offering the exact opposite. You kids are training someone who's passed a 40-hour course. So that five days a week went to some class and suddenly he learned everything that people had studied for years. I told you, you've got that study going a little faster, but 40 hours even for you is too little.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24746	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Rade, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24747	To Article 30. We have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a dual education law asking for its erasure. This article refers to training and licence from the instructor. You have defined that the instructor is the person employed by the employer, who directly ensures that the content of teaching is realised during the study and that students are responsible for acquiring the competences prescribed by the qualification standard. The submission of examinations for instructors and the conduct of exams is carried out by a commission educated by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, in which we have an expert in the relevant field of work and at least one representative proposed by the ministry and the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. What is controversial in this article of the bill, which we do not think should be passed, is the lack of clear criteria for selecting board members. Also, there are clear provisions left here under conditions that commission members should meet and give broad discretion to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Then you say – the costs of issuing the licence and training for passing the exams for instructors are borne by the employer. Do you really think that the employer, who by this bill allows the use of students, who will use students as the cheapest workforce, will expose himself to an additional cost? Then, in the final position of this member, it is said – a training programme, closer to the conditions and other issues of importance for passing the exams for the instructor, at the proposal of the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, the minister prescribes. So, all questions for passing exams, you trust the minister, instead of regulating them by law and removing all possible abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24748	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24749	The instructor, the coordinator, the 40-hour course, is conducted by the Chamber of Commerce, paid by the employer. What's the ministry doing in the whole process? Forty hours course, it's coursers. It seems to me that there is a great danger for the Chamber of Commerce to make an agreement on co-operation with certain televisions, so that these courses are being conducted on the farm, which was still, together, couples, how do I know what it is, and that it certainly can't bring any great benefit to a student who needs to learn something, and that tomorrow he can do it at his place of work when he finishes school, and that it's still guaranteed him a job at least for a period of time. That 30, 40 years ago, we remember the minister and I, calling it an internal qualification. What's the difference between these two things now? Can anyone who's training that coach go to work for another firm tomorrow? Of course he can't, because he learned specific jobs and skills that are related to that company. Even if the other firm is involved in a similar or similar business, it does not mean that his knowledge, or skills, will be sufficient to cross over there and that he can work there normally. So this dual education is now what we realize is that it's a job for coursers. Let's just say, there was an example of a cook. How is the Chamber of Commerce going to educate chefs? The proof that the Palace has not been roasted is obvious and present here, so I don't think that subject can be on the agenda anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24750	The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24751	Thank you. Just a quick reminder of the essence. We don't need dual education, we need free textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24752	Thank you. The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24753	Once again, in practice there is so-called. A dual team, to call it that. There is a professor of practical teaching now called Coordinator, who has all those competences and qualifications that we talk about, but there is no technological knowledge on new technology, machines that need to train a student in the learning process with work. Not to mention ordinary machines, modern businesses tend to have computerized processes. Whether it's cutting the stalls, whether it's cutting the furniture wood, processing the metals, you might want to go around and see. So they're not coaches, they're people who are competent for their narrow profile or wider profile, but they're in tandem with people who have pedagogical calling or skills. Otherwise, in my day there was an institution of accelerated study. I remember that period, I personally used it and completed the basics of the study three years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24754	Thank you. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24755	Dear Vice President, it is said that training for instructors is being conducted by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. They asked, "Who are the instructors?" I'm surprised the high-school MPs, even in high school, don't know who the instructors are or who the coordinators are. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, and instructors and coordinators, in principle, have higher education, and instructors are not even coaches, what the minister says, but they need 40 hours, which is one hour a week, throughout the year, listening to students, and teachers teach, to acquire, among other things, professional pedagogical competences in order to lead to the overall results of our students in collaboration with the school coordinator. Dear Vice President, we really advocate, the Serbian Progressive Party, to combine both practice and theory, because in this way we can lead our students to thinking and certain success. I'm not surprised that the MPs of the former regime are not in favour of it, because it happened that the former Prime Minister, who was a federal minister, was producing a chicken vaccine, vaccinated, and was not a veterinarian. That's why they fight that there's no dual education, because it won't work in the future anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24756	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24757	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is very important, it doesn't even take 40 hours. I also advise you to the Chamber of Commerce, Peter the Great has done a great thing in Russia, has not called these freebarogues from the party of the former regime, but has called on top masters to raise Russia's economy. Those who talk about digitization don't even know how to turn the computer on, let alone make it. I mean, those who say digital Serbia, we don't need agriculture. We need agriculture. I advise you to invite merchants, besides those jewelers, to keep the money in Serbia. So, I advise you to invite the merchants from the "Herolds" department store in the UK, that here the representative who spoke the most, the non-worker from the former regime, doesn't have to go out there to buy the most expensive suits and keep that money here. I also advise you to invite winemakers from the Bernard Arnault winery, Dom Perignon makes wine, Domanie Roy lady whose winery is so called from France and Egon Miller from Germany, not to support some mules, mutibarics, cheaters, who take 550,000 euros, and we have to pay 500 thousand euros for the plot. You pay these instructors, ministers, to learn how to make quality wines that cost 6,300 to 13,000 euros, since we have Fruska Gora, yet, he has not taken everything, and we are ideal for that kind of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24758	Thank you. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24759	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, in the whole of the law, probably the most controversial member of me personally. I don't belong to a group of those who feel that dual education doesn't show concern for our young population, I don't belong to a group of those who think it's some kind of slave labor or something, I think there's good intentions, but this member is completely unclear to me and I think it's the weakest point in the law. I'm glad to hear very often from my colleagues from the SNS that we don't read the law, and how do we not know what we're discussing, and we just had an example of an SNS representative who didn't read the law, because he would like to show me where it says that the instructor has a high professional standing? The instructor has the least degree of calling that has a student training and three years of work in it. What they don't read, that's their problem. It's easier to tell another thing that isn't true, but let's keep it on it. But tell me, Minister, is it possible that in the amendment, in which the Serbian Movement of the Dvori wishes to give you as a ministry greater authority, you do not see any logic? Every place in Article 30, where it says, “The Chamber of Commerce, ” we deleted and put it to be: “The Ministry of Education. ” Mr. Minister, we don't trust the Chamber of Commerce, we still have that kind of faith in the Ministry of Education. Perhaps most of all because of you personally and your attitude which is always well-intentioned and ready to be discussed. The Chamber of Commerce is an interesting organization, the Chamber of Commerce and the Employers' Association. The Chamber of Commerce extends its individual members everywhere and in every place. How are we going to give it to them? I do not dispute that the instructor should exist as a man of the profession who, along with the coordinator as a man of education, will conduct the education of students in the dual education process, and that is not disputed, but you have given me an explanation that you have kept the supervision of the licensing and on the licence register at the Ministry of Education. But every single thing, every place to license that person! You can't convince me so easily that a person who has, suppose, three years of high school for five working days, in 40 hours, as much as she's manually prepared and trained to work on individual appliances that will be used, machines or high-smart machines that will be used in the education process, that such a person in 40 hours will be able to be someone who's on a flat level with the one who has a college education. So we're going to leave that and that instructor to determine the Chamber of Commerce? Is that the Chamber of Commerce that got two million euros from the Chamber of Commerce of Switzerland? How do you think I can believe that's a good solution? I'm telling you, I'm not going to tell you, and I'm saying this again from experience in the Chamber of Commerce in the King, what, how and how they work and how they function, and how much party interference is in that organization. That's why this amendment to the Serbian Dvori Movement went in the sense and direction of giving as much authority to the Ministry of Education as possible, because I believe in you as an expert, because I am a man who has worked in the education profession for many years. However, for some reason, which remains completely unclear to me, you continue to leave all the information to the Chamber of Commerce which, I repeat, is an absolutely interesting organization that will be able to accomplish in this way whether one's own, whether one's party, or someone's other interests. It will show a time that, unfortunately, will be ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24760	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24761	Just for mentioning the party and those remarks on the topic of reading. Come on, maybe somebody can't even read all the material that can have something to do with what we're talking about. I don't just mean the text of the law and the accompanying arguments, but let's just say that strategy that's been talked about a lot these days. It happens, someone doesn't arrive, there's no time, but it's a shame to get in the opinion of the proposed amendments by the legislator, a really quality written opinion, with a phenomenal explanation, not to at least read it. That's where it is right now, that's this material that we got in response to the amendment to the member first, the answer to the question of where the Chamber of Commerce came from and the context of the connection with the strategy? Here, literally begins the sentence – the education development strategy in Serbia by 2020, and continues – it is prescribed, among other things, to directly involve the employer in the creation, development and monitoring of secondary vocational education, the establishment of a sustainable social partnership system in secondary vocational education in the Republic of Serbia. And it goes on to say, "Introducing employers into the teaching process as instructors." Just these questions. So then - developing a system of accreditation, certification of employers where practical teaching is implemented, including at least 10% of employers in realising practical teaching, passing appropriate laws and sublegal acts. So, all of this according to this strategy is Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. I also say that because of who mentioned it, but also because of those who called for a strategy and a connection to the Chamber of Commerce and the participation of employers in the process, here are the people. So, you just have to look at it. Is anyone going to appreciate agreeing, that's another thing, but it didn't fall from the sky. Here's where it is. But since we mentioned Switzerland, which I thank, because those who understand everything in the meantime have learned. What is the minimum cost of working in Switzerland? We talked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24762	Thank you. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24763	In the full spirit of what his colleague Vesovic was talking about, I join most of what he was talking about, and God gives me some other colleagues on the left and right, here from our benches. So everyone and this left, right, whatever opposition group you want, draws your attention to two and three sensitive points and the key and painful point of this law. The good intentions there are really not controversial to me, and here I agree with what my colleague Vesovic said. There is also a concept, although it may be a order as these laws enter parliament should be different. But that law, and that's what I said yesterday or the day before yesterday, stands and falls with the role of the Chamber of Commerce. That's not what everyone pointed at. The fact that it's an interesting organization is one thing, that there's a great influence of politics, that's another thing. Third thing, the Chamber of Commerce was almost dead, almost in agony. As an organization, it has come to life with not so much economic activity in recent years as with provisions, i.e. orders that all economic operators have to join the Chamber of Commerce, and now it, as I say, is a bit of a better fit. Is it going to be in that state in a few years when this law needs to come into force and become effective, that's a big question. It's as unusual as I said, Mr. Minister, that you've gotten as far away as the ministry can and mostly in the control role here. Like I said, why has a commission formed by the Chamber of Commerce, and then the ministry has one member in that commission. Why isn't it the other way around? Why doesn't the Chamber of Commerce have one member on the commission formed by the ministry? I'm talking about the employers' accreditation committees. So is now when it comes to these other things. So it just falls too much that on the employer himself, which is on the Chamber of Commerce. That's what they said would be the most sensitive point of this concept, otherwise the intention is not bad, regardless of what too much advertising and propagating this law has led to people starting to use it in a little pervasive sense. There were some colleagues who were right, like some kind of minor threatening argument or beating, you're gonna go to me on a dual. It's not bad. I have no doubt that you've had good examples, that you've seen good examples from Germany, Austria and Switzerland. I don't doubt it was there, as I said there wasn't a single copy, but I think it's too demanding, too ambitious, and we may have gotten a little house away from the roof, but in any case, that whole system isn't set up in one order or at least that order of how these laws get here in the Assembly. Maybe, like I said, the order could have been different. There's time, two more years, until it becomes operational. Basically, I think things can be fixed in that period and I urge them to get better. Of course, you won't withdraw the law. Of course he'll be voted. I don't want to waste your time and other people's time complaining about it, but what I'm really asking you to think about is that there's time for some subsequent repairs, some additions to that law in the coming months in the next year, some of what MPs are proposing. Of course, sometimes a little political, political, demagogue or motivated by that or this. But if five, ten, completely different MPs who agree with each other about anything, or almost nothing, agree that this is a sensitive and weak point or potentially weak and painful point of law, then at least think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24764	Are you looking for a friend, Bozovic? (Balsa Bozovic: Please, which member is it? ) Member of the 30th Amendment submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. At the title of Chapter VI, the title above Articles 31 and 31 of the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24765	I thank the chairman. So what we talked about in principle and when it comes to detail, evaluation and dual education exams will be such that they will be conducted according to the criteria imposed by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, then, of course, private firms that will assess to a certain level how and how students acted while working with them. Were they obedient, were they worthy, were they doing all that was required of them. So this is how both this member and this chapter of the bill are exploited by children and introduced by children's work after 150 years in Serbia. So this is a shame for a country that wants to become modern, European, with European values where such things, absolutely, appear. So it's impossible for someone in the 21st century to allow under the law, the Constitution, for children to be exploited in this way. So when we talked about the law, we had the opportunity to talk about how much good things were done in some time behind us, how much it took to reform pre-school, primary and secondary education, to improve secondary vocational schools, not to introduce dual education, because dual education aims at the profits of private companies and tycoons, rather than education of children who will continue to live in Serbia. The second argument we have made, and it is very important, is that it will also become a huge disparity in Serbia's development. Regional development will be such that poor municipalities that are poor today will be even poorer and richer. The difference between Serbia's generally rich and poor has never been greater than in the last five years, while leading Serbia's SNS. Dual education brings absolutely nothing good, and dual education is an education that will not empower a man, will not make him a citizen, will not give him confidence, will not make him a master of his own destiny. Dual education is an education that will subdue a man, who will humiliate him and make him a cheap extension of the machine. This is not the goal for our people, it is not the goal for citizens in Serbia, because we do not want to turn into slaves, because we do not want to have a society of the downed, a society that will not walk upright, that will do everything the leader says, which will vote as the tycoons say, a society in which there will be no democracy and rule of law. When we talked about the cheap workforce, we said it was the primary goal of dual education. Instead of free textbooks, which we have proposed on several occasions, since Minister Sarcevic came to this home, free textbooks are obviously textbooks that bring fear into the ruling majority. Why? Because in every way possible they try to enlighten and enlighten that part of society that needs it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24766	My friend Bozovic, you're bringing him in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24767	I'm using time...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24768	You don't have one more base.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24769	I've got seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24770	It was during the day, but it was spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24771	I'm authorized, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24772	Wait a minute, here, we'll check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24773	Mr. Arsic didn't look well. I, as an authorized, have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24774	Before this discussion, you had a minute and 36 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24775	Me as authorized?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24777	Well, that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24778	Well, why would someone take your time just for you? Don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24779	Mr. Arsic, to tell you the truth, I doubt that you've measured it fairly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24780	Here, check it out. It's fair and square, and you check it out, but if I was wrong, I'm willing to apologize and give you your minute back.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24781	I'll check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24782	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24783	For the sake of mentioning the party and, as it were, those terriblely inhuman things that are unimaginable in modern society and in Europe of the 21st century, and we introduce them through dual education. So, ladies and gentlemen, what did we conclude tonight? Something like that is unimaginable in the modern world, especially in Europe, we're introducing it now, we're inhumans. In fact, maybe it's not impossible, maybe it's in Switzerland, but well, that doesn't count. So now we're introducing this terrible thing for the first time and it's unimaginable in Europe, except maybe Austria, right? Oh, well, that doesn't count either. So it's nowhere in the world, at least it's in Europe, except maybe Germany. Let's get some serious, if at all possible. So what we're talking about here and what keeps going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on It won't work, no children's work, ladies and gentlemen. Studying? We're talking about learning who wants to understand and who's able to understand, but the stories of a slave relationship and the service of a leader. You know, that level of constant repetition of one and the same, and obviously wrong, by respecting whoever's doing these things, I can only attribute it to one possible reason. Of course, it doesn't, and I'm really saying it because I respect it as much as possible. It doesn't because he really thinks so. It's impossible for a man to really think that. He can only do that because, for example, he can. It requires a certain leader, when we talk about leaders. When he allows himself to repeat such things publicly in front of this hall and in front of the public who sees this man just because he's asked by a leader, in the best possible way he shows what slave labor is. It applies itself, and at the very least shows slave morality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24784	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24785	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, by estimating your tolerance, you have injured Article 107, and you have been able to take advantage of the measures in Articles 108 and 109 because you did not give me the injury first in time. That's one thing. Secondly, you did not warn a fellow speaker, Balša Bozovic, because the agenda included instructors and grading. He talked about everything and cruelly hurt dignity. When those who robbed citizens talk about poverty, and now talk about their poverty, it's a serious violation of dignity. When those who put themselves in fairy tales and castles, and the people sent to the bass, those who lived, producing an orphanage that barely survived, when they instead of instructors and grades talk about the poor, about their rights, about the kiflas, about the slaves, who were made by the unemployed slaves, who were made by hundreds of thousands of masters of social cases, those who did not fight poverty, but against the poor, those who made people empty stomachs, empty pockets, wandering around Belgrade suburbs, you let them go, and this is an injury to dignity that I do not ask to vote, that they talk about some slaves here, so all the citizens were slaves.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-02-0.u24786	Thank you. Since you are not asking the Assembly in the day of voting to declare a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I do not feel obliged to respond to your advertising of injuries. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. [[Session interrupted at 6:00 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladimir Marinkovic and Milovan Drecun. We continue the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on dual education. The sitting shall also be attended by representatives of the proposing. On the 31st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandar Cabraja and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Jasmina Nikolic, together Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Here you go.
