ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25402	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is my great pleasure to present to you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health, a new law on medical means whose application, I hope, will have a significant impact on the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, on the promotion of new investments and the employment of high-level personnel, but also on quality products for patients, health workers and citizens. This law has made full compliance with EU rules and this Directive on general medical means used in human medicine, the Directive on Active Implantable Medical Devices and the In vitro Directive. In addition, guidelines and the Medeva guidebook were used, as well as new medical regulations from April this year. It is clear, therefore, that the Ministry of Health used the most modern scientific achievements and ethical principles in the area of medical resources in the making of this law. Important laws on medicines and medical resources from 2010, the EU regulations have been agreed on. However, in the area of medical resources, a partial adjustment has been made to enable the economy, which at that time failed to comply with EU standards, to continue its business on the market of the Republic of Serbia, to gradually align its business and to adapt its products to safety and quality requirements. During the application of that law and the regulations adopted for its implementation, almost all businessmen have agreed their business with EU standards and have obtained appropriate certifications of European bodies responsible for assessing compliance, given that they are in addition to our business on both European and other markets. In fact, of the 33,867 medical resources entered in the register, 228 medical resources were not harmonised, i.e. there is no C sign that accounted for 0.6%. Of the 60 domestic producers that have a series of medical means, 13 of them have no certified production, and 30 of them have no C sign. Accordingly, after an analysis of the market has been carried out, taking into account the obligations of the Republic of Serbia following the completion of the screening in the process of joining the Republic of Serbia, we have come to the conclusion that the conditions have been met to fully comply with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia in the area of medical resources with EU regulations in this area. In addition, in an advanced manner, compliance with the standards that already exist has been implemented in the Republic of Serbia for other products, i.e. the Law on Technical Requirements for Products and the Assessment of Consistency as a roof law. Taking into account the fact that the Directives only regulate the area of medical means used in human medicine, but that medical means used in veterinary medicine are not done in a unique way at EU level, but at national level, coordination has been carried out only in the field of medical means used in human medicine. In fact, in EU regulations, as well as in EU member states, the areas of medical resources for veterinary human medicine are regulated by separate regulations. In this respect, the rules applicable until the date of application of this law will continue to apply to medical remedies for use in veterinary medicine, as was also the proposal of the Ministry of Health Affairs. Also, the separation of regulations governing medical resources from prescriptions governing medicines has been carried out. The provisions of the drug law and medical remedies related to medicines have also been applied accordingly to the area of medical resources in the previous period, which in practice has created a number of problems for businesses and healthcare professionals. The drug area is also regulated at EU level, but also by other rules that are completely legal and fundamentally different, and cannot unite their arrangements and application. The amendments to the provisions governing clinical trials of medical means, i.e. changes in the methods and procedures of their approval, as well as the reduction of deadlines, create conditions for encouraging and conducting a number of clinical trials in health institutions and by healthcare professionals in the Republic of Serbia. In this way, not only the development of medical science is encouraged, but it enables healthcare professionals and scientists to have the latest scientific achievements available in medicine, and provides patients with modern innovative treatments at no cost to the health system of the Republic of Serbia. In this part, as a priority, protection of respondents and particularly sensitive groups has been put in place, by setting up a number of defence mechanisms and ethical principles in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration. In view of the average number of clinical trials at year level, where the time limit for authorisation of a clinical trial is 60 days and the parallel procedure for approval of a clinical trial by the competent national authority and the central ethical committee, an increase of requirements for conducting clinical trials in the Republic of Serbia is expected. On a continuous basis, from the date of application of this law to the level currently in the EU Member States and to at least to the level of countries with the same population, which is on average twice the current state. I point out that all clinical studies in the Republic of Serbia are conducted in accordance with the highest scientific ethical principles, where the interest of patients is ahead of the interests of science and the development of new therapies. In this way we will continue to provide patients with the most modern therapy in our profession to be at the source of the latest medical knowledge. The law creates conditions for domestic medical producers to place products in EU and other countries of the world, as well as conditions for developing the economy of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. Manufacturers have been left with a period to coordinate their business in order to meet the conditions for further business development and on the European market. On the day of the entry of the Republic of Serbia into the EU, these producers would lose their right to operate on the market of the Republic of Serbia, and the proposed way domestic medical producers are encouraged to further develop and reach internationally accepted standards, so that they are prepared and there is no interruption of production and loss of domestic producers. Accordingly, the application of this law is an investment in the further development of the business of medical resource manufacturers, which are currently operating only on the Republic of Serbia's market. The promotion of those standards requires the employment of a highly educated professional cadre, which encourages investment and education of professional staff, as well as the employment of persons with prescribed education, experience and education, such as persons responsible for production, persons responsible for transport and others. Serbia's primary strategic development goal is sustainable and dynamic industrial development, which can fit the EU single market and withstand competitive pressure from its members. Sustainable economic growth and macroeconomic stability are unsustainable without the stable growth of industry and its dominant impact on exports, and thus also on the balance of payments. In addition, market conditions are created equal to those at EU level, which encourage the development of the medical assets industry and new investments in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. The introduction of a possible assessment of the compliance of medical means with EU rules by designated bodies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia encourages interest in the opening of new bodies by EU notified bodies, as well as others that carry out the tasks of assessing the consistency of other products, to expand their work, and to encourage new investments in employment and the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. The conditions set are expected to accelerate interest in the establishment of a body for the assessment of conformity, not only of domestic producers, but also of foreign producers not operating in EU territory, i.e. for which notified bodies have not carried out a conformity assessment and which do not bear a CE mark. For example, manufacturers from Eastern European countries, Asia and the like. Also, there is a possibility that the conformity assessment body will become a notified body by the European Commission, thus obtaining the right to operate for the needs of EU producers and expand its performance. We note that lower prices are expected to be created for the assessment of compliance for the Serbian market for reasons of competitiveness, as well as that prices for services of designated bodies in the Republic of Serbia will be less than the price of services of notified bodies in the EU, and especially given the difference in the territorial validity of certificates. This law prevents the entry of non-quality and per-users of insecure medical resources, both on the market and into health institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, as most of the countries in the environment have agreed to comply with EU regulations in this area, the Serbian market remains open to medical resources that could not be placed on the market of other countries. The proposed solution establishes that the control of the safety and performance of the medical means prior to its placing on the market, and the control and supervision of the medical means after placing on the market, through additional obligations of the manufacturer and the jurisdiction, or prescribed market surveillance mechanisms by the Health Ministry's Health Ministry Medical and Medical Devices Inspectorate. Moreover, in a manner prescribed by this law, it will significantly reduce the possibility of entering counterfeit medical resources from other markets on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the medical means coming from the EU market on imports into the Republic of Serbia will have to follow the appropriate statement of compliance with technical requirements, which are in line with the EU directives and the solutions proposed in this law, issued by the manufacturer or the notified body. This law authorises the Agency to recognise foreign documents, namely whether they are relevant and original documents, or to prevent the import of medical resources into the market of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of falsified declarations of conformity, and thus of counterfeit products. Given that more and more drugs are being falsified and medical means, especially those that can be produced in wholesale sales facilities, the consequences that can be caused by patients and users are inconceivable. For this reason, it is of paramount importance to establish a mechanism to prevent counterfeit medical resources from entering the Republic of Serbia market. The assessment of the consistency of the same level, i.e. proof of safety and performance of medical means, will require medical means coming from non-EU countries or not registered in the Republic of Serbia. Out of the total number of 96 reports of doubt about the quality of the medical remedy originating in non-EU countries, 70% of the cases experienced withdrawal of medical resources from the market. Of the total number of medicinal products withdrawn, i.e. placed on the market of the Republic of Serbia, which identified a quality defect, 95.7% were originating in non-EU countries. In the first two years of the application of this law, a reduction in the number of medical withdrawals from the market for 50% defects is expected, given the obligation to assess the compliance of these products with the prescribed basic requirements that are identical to those of the EU market and for medical means originating outside the EU. The Agency shall also remove the obligation to approve promotional material for medical resources, which will also contribute to the savings for persons involved in the transport of medical means, or, in accordance with the proposed solutions, only to control the promotional material of medical resources already placed on the market, and on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, that is, when the competent inspection assesses that this is necessary. Finally, I would point out once again that this law will protect the following problems: the existence of unquality and insecure, i.e. medical means of unsatisfactory performance, both in the Republika Srpska market and in health institutions, and we have also reduced the risks to patients. Namely, most of the products on our market meet EU standards at this time, whose confirmation is that they are marked by a CE mark, a sign of consistency. Although it is a very small number of products outside the EU, it is the fact that due to the low price they achieve representation in healthcare institutions through public procurement, because the criteria of the most favourable bidder are in line with the law governing public procurement. Out of the total number of 96 reported suspicions of the quality of medical resources originating in non-EU countries, 70% of the cases resulted in the withdrawal of medical resources from the market. As I have already said, of the total number of medicinal products for which a quality defect has been identified, 95.7% were originating in non-EU countries. Then, this law is settled next. Further, conditions are met for domestic medical producers to place their products in EU countries and other countries of the world and conditions for the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia in general. Market conditions are created that are equal to those at EU level, which encourage the development of industry and new investments in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. The introduction of a possible assessment of the compliance of medical means with EU rules by designated bodies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia encourages the creation of new bodies from EU notified bodies, as well as others that carry out these tasks, which encourages new investments, the employment of high-level personnel and the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Also, there will be an increase in clinical trials in the Republic of Serbia, which encourages not only the development of medical science, but also enables healthcare professionals and scientists to be made available to them the latest scientific achievements in medicine, and provides patients with modern innovative therapy, without costs under the health system of the Republic of Serbia. In the drafting of this law, the Ministry of Health included all interested entities, state bodies, experts and representatives of the economy, and achieved a broad social consensus on raising standards in this area. I'm taking this opportunity to thank everyone for the confidence, the support and co-operation given. I also thank the MPs for showing interest and recognition of the importance of regulating medical resources through discussion on committees of the National Assembly and the submission of constructive amendments that will contribute to the improvement of these laws. In line with the need for the provisions of the Health Documentation and Registration Act in the field of health, which was adopted on 10 November 2014, and its application began on 1 January 2017, fully comply with the rules governing the protection of personal data, and in particular the area of particularly sensitive data, it is proposed to adopt a law supplementing the Health Documentation and Registration Act in the field of health. In the course of working on the adoption of legislation, it has been demonstrated that by not stating the institutes and concepts that already exist in the Law on the Protection of Personality Data have created a void in terms of the meaning of certain concepts, it was therefore necessary to define what is considered, in particular, under a particular concept. In this context, and in order to resolve the concept of ‘handler’, the said solution is proposed. Also, such a defined concept in the proposal for a law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health is only the Public Health Institute established on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Since it started with the implementation of certain segments of the integrated health information system of the Republic of Serbia into health institutions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, while the above provisions of the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of healthcare are not defined as handling and responsible for information from the Information Health System, we believe that the misunderstanding has been removed. In view of all of the above, i.e. the fact that the regulation of this matter in a proposed way can prevent possible negative consequences, the most elementary human rights of citizens such as the right to privacy, the right to protection of personal data, the right to security, etc., it is proposed that the law be passed by emergency procedure. We also propose that this law enter into force from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the healthcare system as well as the health care system. Dear Members, before us today the Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Contract of the Clinical Centre C between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, signed in Trieste on 12 July 2017, is known that according to the Law on Public Debt and the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, the National Assembly is the one confirming the contracts that create financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia. The 2017 budget provides for the Republic of Serbia to be in charge of the European Investment Bank up to 50m euros for the 50m-euro project Clinical Centre C and for the completion of the project of reconstruction of four clinical centres in Serbia covering modernisation, promotion, enlargement, the addition of four clinical centres in Serbia, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac whose total value is estimated at 430m euros. So far, 150m euros have been agreed with the European Investment Bank for that project on the basis of two final financial contracts. Clinical Centre A signed on 8 December 2006, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank at the amount of 80m euros and Clinical Centre B signed on 12 December 2008 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank at 70m euros. Otherwise, the project of reconstruction of four clinical centres in Serbia includes the following. Sub-project Clinical Centre Belgrade is divided into two stages. The phase includes the completion of the work of the existing floor, the construction of a new tower, the construction of new technical buildings and parking facilities, and the phase of two renovations of the remaining part of the existing building. The total area covered by this project is about 150,000 m2. The Kragujevac Clinical Centre project covers construction of a new building, reconstruction of existing medical infrastructure, construction of new technical blocks, works on landscapes, roads, parking and sidewalks. The total area covered by this project is about 30,000 m2. Sub-project The Nis Clinical Centre covers the construction of a new building, rehabilitation and expansion of existing medical infrastructure, construction of new technical blocks, works on landscapes, roads, parking and sidewalks. The total area covered by this project is about 50,000 m2. Subproject The Novi Sad Clinical Centre covers reconstruction and expansion of existing medical infrastructure, construction of technical blocks, works on landscapes, roads, parking and sidewalks. The total area covered by this project is about 35,000 m2. The procurement of medical and not medical equipment for clinical centres, which will be installed in new or renovated facilities, technical assistance contracts aimed at supporting general health improvement in Serbia. The physical completion of all new and renovated buildings was planned for December 2021. In the course of the implementation of the project, the corresponding changes and additions of both of those financial contracts were made in respect of the extension of the loan withdrawal date until 31 December 2018 and the physical completion of the new and reconstruction of buildings by 31 December 2019. As 50m euros are needed for the finalisation of the projects and the third line of credit will become operational, negotiations with the European Investment Bank to sign an appropriate financial contract have been joined. The Government's conclusion of 13 April 2017 laid down the basis for negotiating with the European Investment Bank with regard to the approval of loans for the implementation of the project of Clinical Centre C. A delegation of the Republic of Serbia for the negotiations made by the representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the project implementation unit set up under the Ministry of Health. Following the conclusion of the negotiations, the government adopted a report on the negotiations and adopted a draft financial contract signed in Trieste on 12 July 2017. The reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure stems from the fact that the continuation of the implementation and financing of the reconstruction project of four clinical centres in Serbia, i.e. the use of the loan appropriations, is conditional upon the entry into force of the Law on the confirmation of financial resources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25403	I thank the ministers. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25404	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not from the field of medicine, but by reading this explanation of these proposals that are on the agenda today, and I've heard what the Minister has told us now, I am absolutely aware that these laws should be supported. So you know, Minister, that the JS parliamentary group will vote for all the proposals that are on the agenda today. The first proposal is the Medical Devices Act. So far, the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has treated this area but, of course, the harmonisation has begun before the application of this law and the adoption of one of these laws. That period was sufficient, as I saw in the explanation, for all those economic operators involved in the production of medical resources to have enough time to comply with EU regulations and thus be prepared after the adoption of this law and to take place in EU markets, which means that our economy will certainly also get a new driver. Best of all, as someone who does not come from the field of medicine saw in this explanation, that so far we have had the situation that a large number of unquality and insecure resources from the areas of the environment have been coming to us in Serbia lately because the countries in the environment have already adopted such laws. Since the moment these laws began to apply, such funds have ended in Serbia. Fortunately, by passing a law like this, I believe that such things will no longer be possible. The thing about medical resources, Minister, I have an obligation to pass this on to you, because you and I spoke three years ago on this subject and the Dialysis Department in Vranjska Banja. I think you remember that conversation and you asked me to prepare the complete paperwork I did, from photos to the financial plan. I handed it over to the people in your service, and unfortunately, two and a half years have passed since then, and nothing has been done about it. I'm saying, since it's the Medical Assets Act, I remind you that it's a dialysis department fully equipped in Vranjska Banja on an area larger than 200 square feet, from tiles to ceilings, with new equipment that's been standing in the cellophane for eight years, with people who are employed eight years ago to do that part of the job, with information that all the people from Vranjska Banja for such service travel to the King, and that all the people from Triestenik who travel from us to Kruševac. The costs we only have based on the transport of all these patients are huge. Since we've got this department fully equipped, please, maybe this law was one trigger or a moment to start solving one of those things, and that's why I didn't want to reconsider, and here I waited for this law, just to remind you once again that it would be a good idea to bring it to purpose. Vrnjaka Banja is also a tourist center, a large number of people who have a commitment to dialysis might also be headed to Vrnjačka Banja if they knew that the facility, a hospital belonging to the "Studenica" Centre in Kralje, had the possibility of undergoing dialysis in Vrnjačka Banja. Nevertheless, I believe, and I say this is a good moment and I think you understand my message, and the JS parliamentary group will vote for this bill. The second bill of law that we have on the agenda today is the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. In fact, it is one addition to two members of the Law that we have voted and passed in this House. It is perfectly normal that a law that is released after some time can be seen what it is that needs to be corrected. The two changing members are absolutely acceptable to the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group. The third law is the Law confirming a financial contract between the Clinical Centre of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Given that funds are not so small, they are worth 430m euros and what is important is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated 165m euros in its budget for the application of one such law, the European Commission's funding is 38m, the World Bank 15m, bilateral donors 10m and a bank loan of 200m. I think this is one good thing, not only has this been going on since 2006, but this is a good time to withdraw this third phase, this third tranche and certainly all of us coming from the province, where most people, unfortunately, over 70% of such patients need to reach Belgrade at least once or twice over the course of their lives because of inadequate conditions in clinical centres located outside Belgrade or some other health institutions, and this is a good message to all that the Ministry with this third phase, by opening this clinical centre of the new block in Nis, renovating in Novi Sad and Kragujevac, is certainly coming out to the citizens of Serbia. I believe that the costs of the state, and certainly its citizens, will be reduced to a minimum. Someone might throw this away, and they don't like it, and they're mostly people living in Belgrade. I'm not sure how those in this crowd are able to get to work, and you can imagine what it's like for people from the province who come to be treated in Belgrade, who first come and don't know where they're supposed to go, or where the Clinical Center is, or where the VMA is. So, buddy, I don't think that's relevant to what's done, to throw it away while someone's talking. As a good example of practice, and what I propose to all colleagues who are involved in politics at the bar is what the city of Jagodina does, which is that official cars have been put on the service of citizens who need to get to the clinical centres, and they don't know because they were never in them, how they can manage, even for that opportunity they bought one bus, so these are the things they needed to say hello to. As for the Parliamentary Group, I repeat once again, Minister, we will vote on all three of these proposals. Once again, I ask you to adopt a suggestion that is related to dialysis in Vranjska Banja and finally let that department work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25405	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25406	It is absolutely true that the centre in Vranjska Banja, or part of the Internal Hospital, is equipped so that it can start dialysis at any moment. The problem that exists is they don't have an employee certificate that they can do dialysis. We can't, as is imagined, have someone from the King come to do dialysis or from another center. So I urge you that these people have to go through training, they have to get a certificate on the same day, I promise you, that a health ministry inspection will come out and as soon as they have a certificate, you'll be able to start dialysis tomorrow. There's absolutely a need to work, but now it's literally on a human factor and people's organization, there's got to be 24 hours, they can't come on the side, they have to work to make it work. That's the law. Speed them up, we're in the mood to help. Let them come here, let them be as long as it takes, but to get those certificates and then you can work. It's all right, you've done everything that's up to you, but you can't take dialysis. It's not a little naive, people have to have knowledge, certification. It's no problem that people come from the side to help, but they can't, it's not real, to be there 24 hours. So, as soon as it's done, the second it starts working.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25407	I thank the ministers. Before we continue with the presidents and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, I would like to make an apology, first of all, to the rapporteur of the Finance Committee. For a little while, when I asked if the committee's rapporteurs wanted a word, counterpart Tomic, you were not recognized in the system, because at some point a huge number of MPs appeared. It was not my intention to make it impossible for you to speak, and I will allow you, five minutes to speak, and then we will continue with the presidents and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25408	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, on the Committee on Finance, we had the opportunity to hear in detail the conditions under which the financial contract that we have today is in the light of the draft law confirming this agreement for the Clinical Centre, that is, the phase of the "C" loan, which is, at which stage, it appears, the withdrawal of the tranche and the conditions. They're obviously strict procedures for withdrawing these loans. We had the opportunity to hear from Minister Loncar that the need was first to carry out a certain kind of negotiations, that the withdrawal of the tranche and what these loans will be intended for, and only on the basis of a report adopted by the Government, would a proposal be made for such a financial contract. What we need to say is that here we have a harmonisation of the EU directives and a solution to the problem of citizens in the field of health, but we also have the part that talks about improving and digitising the system itself, when we talk about health care. What is certainly a pleasure, it is that today's session will only discuss the financial plan, given that when they are amended, there will be no words, given that the agreements have no way of submitting amendments by the MPs, because there is no possibility of that, since two states, or two institutions and states, when they conclude certain agreements, cannot have amendments, since the government is a guarantor of such financial reports and are ratified in parliament. What I want to praise is that in addition to these four clinical centres that are needed as infrastructure and all the equipment that needs to raise the level of health service of all Serbian citizens, it is what we are going to step up with the world, and that is, above all, the procurement of representative equipment. We have had the opportunity to see these days that indeed that the equipment Serbia is now getting and becomes an integral part of the daily health service in the clinical centres of Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad is also the replacement of certain boilers, i.e. the thermal energy projects that will be financed by these loans, and then the part relating to waste management, I will say that this is also a good example, we had opportunities in 2014 and 2015 to see by the European Commission which financed waste management, medical waste, for example, in Jagodina, I also had opportunities to see in Pirot, in hospitals, meaning, in smaller places, which are not part of clinical centres, and these are somehow comparative projects. That is why it is good that this model that we apply in large clinical centres is indeed a good example of practice that even in smaller cities it exists. What should be said, in addition to these infrastructure financing, facilities, equipment, should indeed work in the future to ensure that our staff, I think doctors, are an integral part of the promotion of services, i.e. the European Investment Bank is funding somewhere and supporting our staff who should stay here, given that not only our staff in the health sector in Serbia, but also in the region, and even in EU members, are being attacked by good offers by one Germany, because the need for staff there is much greater, given that Germany's an old nation and that they remain without quality personnel, because they are going to retire. Germany is believed to have a new five million pensioners in 2030 and therefore needs 30,000 doctors, 30,000 engineers and 300,000 workers who have medium professional equipment. Therefore, we must adequately meet these challenges, and that must be part of the great work of the Ministry of Health. And that's why I think these contracts when it comes to financial support, which are very favourable, refer to 50 million euros, 25 years of funding, withdrawing the tranche without interest, without certain credit costs, are a very good way to even raise the entire health care system to an adequate level. Therefore, such a contract and agreement that we have today as a part of the agenda should be the subject of support from all MPs not depending on which group they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25409	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25410	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, with no intention of reducing the importance of the proposed health laws, especially the medical law. The question arises, however, why, besides the large number of laws found in the Assembly procedure, are much longer than these three who are now in line, exactly the ones who have been given priority? I'll remind you, procedures are for example. laws on security, such as the Security and Information Agency Act, the Transport Safety Act, then the economics area such as the bankruptcy law, and a large number of international agreements, which largely relate to Serbian citizens' life issues, which is why they are certainly of greater interest. With that in mind, I suppose it is the intention of the ruling majority, that at this point, before deciding whether to organise another one for Serbian citizens will be needless and expensive early parliamentary elections, the debate in criticism, which has a predominantly technical nature, and thus is not so politically controversial and incendiary, and perhaps the so-called paradise papers on business through an offshore company, which one member of the government is on, have further postponed the debate on the Money Laundering Act, which is also in the procedure. As we are already discussing health laws, the question is also raised – why is it not, that is, when the laws on the agenda, practically all Serbian citizens, above all, the Law on Medicines, as well as the indirect Law on Apothecary Action, for which, if I am not mistaken, the public debate has long ended? Namely, the Drug Act affects between the availability of medicines and regulates their prices, even those who do not receive state support, which is why some of them are deficitary, as well as listed on the list of medicines financed from the budget, which is defined by the regulation as a sublegal act. The problem is that new effective therapies go very slowly on the list of medicines, as there are no defined deadlines for updating the list. What is more important, this law should specify, define the terminology used in this area. When it comes to the Law on Apothecary Institutions, the current draft provides for the introduction of a centralisation of the decision, on who can open the pharmacy by giving the proposal a competent pharmaceutical chamber and a final decision on it by the minister. This law with the criteria it contains will call into question the possibility of a large number of existing pharmacies, and I hope that it will suffer significant changes before entering the Assembly procedure, or during this procedure. Now, let's go back to the proposed laws, first of all, to the Medical Assets Act. This law certainly brings two positive consequences. The first is the separation, i.e. the introduction of specific laws governing the field of medicines and medical resources, as well as the separation of medical resources used in human medicine from medical remedies used in veterinary medicine. Another, compliance with EU rules, which ensure respect for the quality of products, especially when it comes to further regulation of vigillance, i.e. monitoring of undesirable effects of medical means. But there seems to be a problem here, too. If we are already in compliance with EU regulations, then equally foreign compliance documents, i.e. EU certification through the CE mark, and it is unclear why the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in Serbia should make any recognition of the foreign document, unless the intention is to further burden foreign producers through fees, which would already benefit them in a monopolitical situation. In addition to these positive consequences, the way this law is written does not instill confidence that it will contribute to the achievement of pro-clomonated objectives, such as strengthening domestic economy and markets, or protecting Serbian citizens from poor quality medical resources. In short, the law is written like this, not only is it too widespread and complicated, but at the same time not precise, unspeakable and in some areas untransparent, such as when it comes to the appointment of a vigination coordinator. In fact, this law leaves too many important issues to be regulated by sublegal acts as well as by authorised bodies to assess compliance with technical requirements and supervision, which will also be appointed on the basis of insufficiently precise criteria. When it comes to vigillation, or tracking unwanted effects of medical means, the question is raised, if I am well informed – on what basis is the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, although, of course, according to the applicable law, has the authority to organise and monitor the vibration of medical means in transport? More than 15 days ago, she already adopted a tariff system that regulates this area, although the Medical Assets Act has not yet been adopted. When we talk again about harmonising with EU regulations, which we have already assessed as positive, it seems to me that this law is without any need to rush the introduction of a single identification number of medical means, before the EU states themselves will do so. In fact, the EU has extended the introduction of this number depending on the risk class, starting in 2021, for the class three to 2027 for class A. For other classes, the deadlines are 2023 and 2025, respectively. In addition, these dates are subject to change, depending on the application of Eudamed, or European Medical Database, as well as the availability of this base. Since we are already discussing the problem of widely understood electronic business, why is the business of establishing and maintaining an electronic record of authorised persons in the field of medical resources entrusted to the Chamber of Commerce, one of the interested organizations, whose importance from day to day is obviously growing, most likely because of the closeness of the president of this organization with the head of state, instead of the work being carried out by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices as a professional organisation? Now we're having trouble setting up a body for a conformity assessment. Despite our understanding of the intention to encourage competition and increase efficiency in this area, which is also practice in the EU, the legitimate question arises – is it, apart from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which already has a large number of competent employees, that has the right space for additional employment, the need to establish new bodies with uncertain outcome, given the terrible outflow of qualified labour, especially in this area? Of course, this approach makes as much sense as any idea, as with any other recently adopted law, that in these bodies the entanglement finds human beings close to the authorities, and they take over part of the entry cake for themselves. Therefore, I would ask for an explanation – do the appointed bodies accompany manufacturers who have issued a certificate of conformity, though yes, why, when the agency is already engaged? On the basis of which criteria will the evaluation be carried out, as well as whether they will have sufficient capacity for such a thing, in view of and previously said? Also, they are not sufficiently regulated criteria for obtaining and losing accreditation, for at the same time excessive powers of the minister, who has the main word in both cases, and not until the end of a clear role of the accreditation body of Serbia, which is practically taking over in this area the authority for this area of the more competent Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. Because of the above, the main issue is to make sure that the newly appointed bodies comply with the highest professional quality standards, i.e. to be highly competent and ethically oriented so that the market is not flooded with unquality medical resources, primarily from countries outside the EU and the United States, as we were flooded with non-quality drugs from China during the 1990s. Certainly it is not in our interest to view Serbia as a country that opens a small door to the EU for unquality medical resources from other parts of the world? In a further debate on the responsibility of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, I would also ask for clarification on the control of promotional materials, something was said by the minister, although it was not best heard because of the noise, since the text of the law, if I read it correctly, contains this defence control, but does not contain this defence control, but does not contain one which is stated in the explanation that this law removes the obligation to approve promotional material for medical means by the Agency, i.e. that, in accordance with the proposed solution, the Agency will carry out self-control of the promotional material of the medical agent, which is already placed on the market, and on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, or when the competent inspection assess that it is necessary. Namely, an existing solution based on which the Agency controls promotional material for medical devices before placing on the market is a solution that is not common. Manufacturers often wait for approval for six months and sometimes longer, and at a time of rapid progress in science and technology, thus allowing both professional and wide public to be informed before the time. When this approval finally comes and comes, information is often out of date, thus jeopardising the business of these companies. In this way manufacturers can be placed in an unequal position, as not a small number of their representatives are trying in different ways to encourage those responsible at the agency to speed up the procedure, which is, you will agree, a fertile ground for corruption. I would also like to look back on the position of domestic producers in this area. In view of the reasons for the law, it is difficult to believe that the assessment of compliance for one producer, namely one production process and one product group, is approximately 8000 euros, that such conditions can boost the development of domestic economy, as this lower and above all local producers are placed in an additionally unequal position compared to large international companies. In conclusion, we can only conclude that this law, on the one hand, is very comprehensive, on the other, inaccurate, indeterminate and confusing, because it contains overlapping competences and insufficiently defined criteria for key issues it regulates. For this reason, we believe that it does not provide guarantees that it will achieve these objectives, primarily strengthening national economy and markets, as well as ensuring the quality of medical resources in line with world standards. Finally, a few words about the law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. These proposals shall be submitted for amendments. 44th and 56th. We also believe that it was necessary to amend, or specify, and Article. 37th and 48th. Article 37 refers to the keeping of documents in the prescribed form, but it is not clear which documents are concerned. This should be stated because in the criminal provisions of Article 57, a reference is made to this. At the same time, on the basis of Article 48, a patient may decide not to run an electronic medical record, and the question is, what is done in that case? Therefore, it may be necessary to add that the patient is subject to a paper medical record or a record. But we're going to leave that behind for some next addition and an amendment to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25411	Thank you. Minister Zlatibor Lončar is represented by the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25412	With all the effort, I've tried to understand what you stand for. At the very beginning you said why this law is going now, why don't some political, interesting laws go to you, and then you said, "Why don't some more health laws go to you?" I didn't understand the point, but it doesn't matter, you must know. What I can tell you is that politics patients are not too interested in. This is something that should have been adopted, done much earlier, especially by those who advocate the EU and the rest. These all the misunderstandings that you've stated, which you haven't seen, have never been regulated before. Please read it again in detail, everything is absolutely consistent with the EU, with the countries that have the result, so that we do not get to the situation you're talking about, that our drugs come cheap and unquality, and they go through tenders. One of the serious reasons we've changed and come to this law is that. So, if you stand for the EU, for EU standards, this is something that meets all those standards, where we are approaching. Once again, please, don't mix things important to every man, to health, to patients, to politics. It doesn't matter here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25413	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a few laws ahead of us, first of all, I will refer to this Law on Medical Resources, and they will probably be surprised that I, as an opposition MP, say that I would consider this law a good one. That doesn't mean I don't have certain objections to that law, and I want to share these objections here with you and divulge some doubts about this, so if any of this can be fixed. First of all, I want to say that it's not some new thing to talk about, that is to say, regulation of medical means, because it used to be common in the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, but given the amount of medical resources and their specificity, it's good to have this particularly apostrophe. However, it would be good for this law to be brought into line with the Health Protection Act, which, for example, in Article 157, says consent can be sought to carry out studies of medicines and medical resources, and in this Medical Devices Act says it must. What I certainly support is that it must be asked for consent, because as a doctor myself, I have witnessed a variety of Javaljuks and sometimes even, unfortunately, I have to say, I have to say, non-professionalisms about drug testing and some medical means. As far as the real protection against sponsorship of the gatherings mentioned here is concerned, this is not fully implemented and we are very often witnesses that there are some of our colleagues who, in practice, have a constantly packed purse waiting to go on the roads around the globe and thus very often carry out the interests of the house itself that produces medicines, or medical means, and do not implement the needs, or the interests of the patients themselves and the departments they work on. Also, I think we should react more sharply to drug and medical advertising without a certain fact. That's where I think the Ministry has to play an even more important role. Also, I don't understand until the end of the role of the Chamber of Commerce in this whole thing, when we have agencies and we already have the Ministry. What I was a little distracted by, I'd say more lexically, is a large amount of English expressions in the text itself. I don't have a problem with foreign languages and I don't want to brag about it right now. But I think, let's say, words or expressions of type: custom made device instead of devices per order, or clinical training plan instead of clinical research plan, or common definition, can be translated quite nicely into Serbian. We know it's Latin, it's medicine. We know that English is a language of science, but it doesn't need English to become a language of law now, especially since we have Bregzit, so Britain is coming out of the EU, so there's no such need. I repeat that the law is correct and that our MP group will support this law. We'll see what changes there. But this second law, more specifically, of the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care, we have a lot of objections to that. This law cannot be supported, and this supplement cannot be supported, and here is why. First of all, we are not satisfied with the Health Documentation and Records Act itself in the field of health care, and we were hoping that these supplements would remove some of the essential weaknesses of the law, but that, unfortunately, did not happen. The newspaper, which is good in this supplemental draft, is the prescription of an integrated health information system of the Republic of Serbia, short for ISIS, i.e. The Institute of Public Health, to notify of any breach of the security of data to the data subject, the Ministry of Health and the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data, as well as the regulation of infringements if that obligation is not carried out. This is good and this is a civilization standard and achievement and we welcome it anyway. However, this draft still does not address the fundamental problem of processing personality data in this ISIS, i.e. I will refer here to the professional institution of the Data Protection Trustee, which addressed you, Mr Minister, and the Ministry. He believes it is not resolved, I quote, a legal basis for setting up ISIS. The Commissioner considers that the applicable Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care does not, by any provision, authorise the data handler to establish the ISIS itself in the way he now operates in practice and to process personality data within it. Namely, by provision of Article 44(2). The Health Documentation and Records Act in the area of health care is prescribed that the ISIS is a health-statistic system, information system of health insurance organisations and information systems of health institutions, private practices and other legal entities. So what the trustee warns about, and what we saw, is that in no single place is predicted to form a single and centralized set of personality data, which would be controlled by a single handler, which is now being introduced by this supplement. The integration of several systems containing personality data also represents the processing of personality data and needs to be taken into account. From the aspect of generally accepted European standards, the accumulation of a large number of smaller databases into one huge database alone poses a serious risk to the rights of the person in relation to the processing of personality data. We feel that such processing should always be avoided. However, if such a centralised ISIS data base cannot be avoided and such access, then the law should, but by law, be careful, not by sublegal acts, but by law, define the purpose of processing data in ISIS, as well as the purpose of creating such a huge database. So the purpose, the purpose, the purpose, must be clearly defined, clearly, must be prescribed by law, that it leaves no doubt whatsoever. The law should also regulate what data will be entered and processed in the ISIS, which health institutions will do, under which conditions they will do so, and all respecting the principles of protection of personal data and the principles of so on. the proportion of the treatment. The principle of data security is one of the basic principles of data processing and one of the basic principles that we feel safe as people in our society. It is also necessary to regulate the responsibility for the processing of these data, as well as under what conditions and who may have access to these data and that access must not apply to all data, since it is again the principle of purpose and proportionality that I have mentioned. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because, this year, not in the spring, we witnessed the case of Kornic, when the data on the treatment of the man from Lazarevic Hospital was presented. We had here reading and quoting data from the medical records about who was released from the army and why he was released from the army. These things shouldn't happen at all. Besides, there's one more thing I want to say, even though I'm at risk of being like a psychiatrist completely paranoid, and that's the data that's related to the transplant. It's not atomic energy invented to drop an atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but to make humanity feel better. Likewise, the transplant is certainly carried out from the most noble and best initiatives to save lives. However, there are pagans who dirty every thing and, of course, these data can easily become prey or the goal of trading them, to say about the resus factor, about the blood type, about the HLA system that will surely be introduced when we have this transplant law. I really think that we need to think a step forward and prevent a hunt for information from opening up, and from hunting for information, unfortunately, and hunting for people. So, this proposed legal solution does not solve the fundamental problem of processing personality data, and this law cannot be supported by our parliamentary group. The third point here is the financial agreement between the clinical centres of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Of course, it's not good to be in debt and we're standing on it, but for certain things, such as health care, I'd have these certain discounts and what I repeat to my kids at home and everyone here – health and school. So it's very important that we have a good health system, because only a healthy nation can be a relatively satisfied nation, and besides, we can through this, our doctors, our nurses, people who work in health care, not that we all go to Germany, Norway, Sweden and other countries. You are alone, Mr. Minister, as well as your colleagues here, witnesses that more and more young people are going abroad, because we have nothing to offer them here. Although I have some inconsistencies here, Mrs Tomic explained them in part. I couldn't figure out how to pull the tranche, how much interest there is, what it all looks like. Anyway, with all that little doubt, I wouldn't have any major objections, and I just want to say one thing. If we're in debt, then we'd better be in charge of building clinical centres and raising health care, not building up like in Nis, making doors that can't get through the scanner and the rest of the apparatus. I would ask here again, although it is not a topic – why, I mentioned Nis, what is the highway Nis-Pristina-Tirana for? Who will be raised here by health care or any standard in Serbia? That's what I'm up against. I'm against these pointless projects, and if this explains how it works, if you can answer these questions about borrowing, this financial aspect, we're willing to support this point as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25415	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25416	I'll try to answer you in detail all the things you asked. Why does he have to agree? You asked for a study, or I understood that you advocated consent, it must, but you have a misunderstanding that this is where it can be. This law repeals the Health Protection Act so that it can and should have to. We can't get into that situation we talked about anymore. Studies when they work the right way, when they're controlled they have their own meaning and purpose. We don't want to participate in anything else. If we don't do studies according to all these principles and all these rules and if they don't follow them, we have no intention of supporting and participating in tomorrow's event that anything unplanned happens. We've got a lot of use. I think we'll raise 50% in a neat way. What do we get from these studies? We're getting that our patients can get the most modern form of therapy that exists at that moment in the world. The other thing is, we get our doctors to get to know each other, to participate in projects that are important to the whole world, but I repeat under conditions. That's why we've changed all of this to make the conditions extremely transparent, ethical committee, to meet all these rules, data security and the whole procedure that's going on has to be, I repeat, extremely transparent. So we settled it. The other thing, you mentioned travel, the pharmaceutical industry, and you know it maybe better than me that it's an extremely strong lobby with which it's hard to deal with. I don't have a problem with that. What I insist on... Don't think I don't know that half the plane doctors go to individual conventions, on those trips. I don't think that's good, that money can be spent much smarter, that we can bring a lot of serious experts from Europe and the world for that money to heal our people, to show our doctors and our medical staff, to perfect themselves, to master new methods. I think that would be much smarter, or to invest in moving, rebuilding hospitals, getting equipment. What I insist on, what I insist on, what I would like to insist on, is that it's the only way we can have support from all of you, I'm asking pharmaceutical houses to throw out exactly who and what they pay and how much on their website. What we did, what we can do as a state, that employees doctors and medical staff can use for that purpose seven to nine days a year to go on it. For the rest of us, if he wants to go, he has to take either vacation or he can't, because we just have people who are 365 days out of 250 days, they just repack things, they're always at some conventions. I don't know what benefits our patients have from all this. I don't understand that. But what I'm going to insist on, if we can put it into some law, is that the pharmaceutical house has an obligation to put on the site that she paid for. If you knew exactly what doctor, sister, anything was paid to see what we could use it for, it can't be a secret. So, to me, it's the only way. We're not jeopardizing anyone, we can't ban you from doing what you're gonna do with your money. Right? It's their money, but let's make sure we know where that money's going. We agree to know every penny where there's credit and everything from the budget and everything else, so why wouldn't you know? So where did they make that money? Well, we made money. From the state of Serbia and the patients, they earned from them. That money didn't fall out of the sky. Well, that's why. Because they've put themselves in that price and then they're left with enough to go. It's okay to invest that money in research into these studies that cost seriously and everything else, but for travel, especially tourism, there's no point in me and we'll absolutely insist on it. Let's move on. As for the file, I have to say everything you asked, if it's no problem, just read article 74. The health care law that regulates that and Article 44. The Act of Documentation. There is a legal basis for all this happening, and then we are going to sublegal data security acts brought by the Ministry on the basis of a proposal from the Institute of Batut and its construction is under way. So where do we want to go to detail to protect all the data. You mentioned the Information Commissioner when we were doing the bill, we consulted everyone, we always consult everything, I'll read you what came from the Commissioner's office. In this regard, this law that we have discussed, the Commissioner states that the suggestions he had were respected and that from the point of view of the Commissioner's jurisdiction there are no objections to the submitted draft. Written by Deputy Commissioner Aleksandar Risanovic Here's the document here, so we haven't done anything on our own, or anything, but we've agreed to everything so tomorrow doesn't be that someone didn't get along. We have a document here that we came here with, and I'm sorry you didn't see it. I'll also say what you asked for loans, interest payments, how money is withdrawn. No interest, nothing is paid until the moment you activated that money, until you spent it, it doesn't matter that you pulled it. The interest is determined by two methods. At that point, you can determine a fixed interest or some variable interest, depending on what the finance ministry decides. We don't decide from the Ministry of Health, because we don't know anything about it, but the Ministry of Finance will monitor all these flows. The moment it's activated, that's when it's decided. Why and how do you withdraw this money? I can tell you the reasons why he's retreating. In order to call our law on any public procurement, you have to have the resources in the budget, to stand by to call the purchase. It's a way, and then these funds are being spent in a similar situation that is being presented as being done, only then being spent. They've explained to you how these interest rates are going and it's still going to be extremely transparent, what's been spent before, what's being spent now, so you can get to the dinar every single piece of information. As far as the Nis Clinical Center is concerned, patients have to be in by New Year's Eve. I asked the same question – why did you put down the wall? People say you can't build a project without a wall and then post it. I don't understand the building, but it's something that people have explained to me that it has to. The moment they did that, they can't know with certainty what the camera will do, and what it won't do, they have to do to meet the surveillance and all the controls they have, to give them permission to do something. If they left all that behind, they wouldn't be able to get past all that control. I've heard of it, I've asked a question and they say it's a practice in the world that it has to. It's not any demolition, it's something that's foreseen according to the equipment that's coming at that moment. As far as the highway is concerned, it's much better for me to have highways. If you have highways, you can have investments. Another thing, in southern Serbia, a lot of people are being treated from Albania, from Presevo, from Kosovo and from all these parts, so if some life is going to save, it means a lot faster to get to the hospital, especially now to the modern clinical center. I don't see anything wrong, no matter where the highways are built, I think we need it. I think I tried to answer all those questions you asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25417	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25418	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, respected ministers, today's medical laws are very important. I'm a little surprised they're asking why they're on the agenda today. They're on the agenda today and I'll explain why. They are, first of all, as you said, agreeing with European procedures, harmonising with European standards, but I must stress, as I have seen, that all the measuring European organisations have given the greatest praise for this law. What am I saying this for? These laws are the right measures of European legislation. Legislatives that bring laws to the benefit and use of citizens, rather than to the benefit of kleptocrats. To the benefit that reduces every form of corruption, it prevents any kind of abuse. These are European standards because, according to Francis Fokuyama, a major political theorist, what is the advantage of the EU, of a neoliberal democracy? The advantage is that laws are passed in accordance with the needs and interests of citizens, not large companies, not large pharmaceutical firms, in this case, not abuse, not at the expense of the irresponsible politicians we've seen so far, who once passed laws to have their own interests. This is exactly the advantage and size of the EU, and it is precisely these laws that are the right measures of European law. Wonders why people who advocate these standards are criticizing why they are in front of us today on the agenda. The proposed solutions are really good because they refer to citizens, patients, users of medical services and make it impossible for our market to enter non-quality medicines, unverified medicines and medical means, i.e. to allow the highest form of quality healthcare to our patients. Of course, it is very important that this law foresees a high level of security mechanisms to protect ourselves from the climate of large counterfeit and false drugs, counterfeit and false medical resources that, from some foreign markets, mostly third countries, come and could come to our market. This law introduces another additional security mechanism, which is the Institute of Monitoring, i.e. “surveillance” of medical means and on the market so-called “surveillance”. ‘post-market surveillance’ and market surveillance. But it was a question of what English was for? It is a very clear answer, because, you will see, especially in scientific research, codified forms in writing certain questionnaires and in fact these English abbreviations are in those used in filling, and thus educate people who use them. English is the language of medicine today. It's not Latin anymore. Today, most expressions and abbreviations are actually used in English, and that was the proposal's intention, as far as I know, and as much as I've asked, to facilitate and use the standard codes used in everyday codes, codes, questionnaires, etc. In addition to creating market conditions, which will be equal to everyone, both in the EU and in our country, I see it as an extremely important and extremely important progress, because it was allowed from 2012 until today, when we adopt and discuss this law, that our pharmaceutical firms adapt to these standards and now we see that one really small part of these pharmaceutical companies, as the minister said, 0.6% of them. So basically a very small inconspicuous part isn't ready. I believe that they will also be ready for this competition and that this way our pharmaceutical industry will be launched which is ready, I believe, to enter the game, and to be the central industry in the Balkans and to supply not only Serbia but all the surrounding countries. I would turn my speech more to clinical studies, given that this area, I see little, and the unknown to the public and that so far there have been a lot of grudges and it has been practically resolved legally in several laws. We make these laws a quality legal framework that we will promote and raise to the level of quality, reference and clearly visible clinical trials that can contribute greatly to the quality of health institutions, health services, but also to our doctors and our profession, which will be educated through the studies themselves and acquire new knowledge, new techniques and use the latest medicines. In fact, clinical trials were often presented in a very negative context in public, which produced practically one concern for doctors, in institutions to practically enter these studies. In clinical studies of medicines, as well as medical resources, a large number of citizens had a negative opinion and the view that we are one poor country, poor patients, and that certain pharmaceutical houses will practically use these people as guinea pigs in the studies themselves, and that they will practically explore their medications at the heart of our patients' health, which is absolutely wrong. All of this has led to a very small number of clinical studies in Serbia today. Only six were recorded on those tables in January 2017, which is the smallest number of clinical studies in the environment. The countries around us, such as Bulgaria or Romania, for example, Romania has 24, Hungary has 27 studies at the moment. So we're way below that level. If there were no clinical research, gentlemen, we wouldn't have any new medications. If there were no clinical studies we wouldn't know what doses are optimal in giving certain patients for a specific indication. If we didn't have clinical trials, we wouldn't know about the side effects. What are these side effects that they can lead to? So clinical trials are a cornerstone of scientific progress in medicine, in pharmacies, and therefore also in patient therapy. Of course, clinical trials are conducted in our country according to ethical principles, very transparently and that each man makes an individual, his own personal decision, whether to participate in a clinical trial. Any man participating in a clinical trial may decide at any time to stop being part of that clinical trial. Finally, a suggestion by the Ministry of Health can stop a particular clinical trial as a third mechanism. Therefore, this law is extremely good, as a legal framework that is consistent with modern medicine and with modern flows in pharmacies, and it provides really concrete solutions and introduces major and extremely significant patient protection mechanisms in clinical trials. In order to start a clinical trial, the Agency's consent must be obtained. The Ethics Committee, which is a newspaper, is also involved, that the Ethics Committee must give its consent for a certain period of time. In the end, it's all under the glass of the Ministry of Health which, as I said, can at any moment stop a particular clinical trial. Very rigorously, very studioy consent is given in agencies where highly skilled persons are sitting, who assess whether they will have certain damages and how much it will benefit from a specific clinical trial. This legal framework is something that is very innovative and that is very important for us to come into force as soon as possible. That's why this law is so important that it comes into effect as soon as possible. In this way I can say that it will profit, first of all, the patients, because a large number of medicines that have only been studied a few years ago, today is standard therapy, today is even on a positive list. We remember in Hepatitis C therapy, where we had huge studies that enabled a large number of people, who were far ill, even people with cirrhosis of the liver supplied with the immunomodulator of interferon pegylated and ribavirin. It's standard therapy today. Most of our patients were able to enter the most modern treatment based on these studies. So if you keep quality surveillance and follow this, it's an extremely good mechanism that allows our patients to have the most modern and best therapy, as this example is listed. What I'm trying to say is that the tests are conducted in a number of phases. It is preceded by a preclinical phase, which in the laboratory, ‘In vitro’ in animals, and only when it is demonstrated that a particular medicinal product has achieved a positive effect on a specific animal, i.e. in a specific ‘in vitro’ study, it is placed on the market, i.e. in a further study. Then we have four stages. The first stage, in healthy patients, where they're only being questioned for safety. Phase two and phase three, where patients are being examined for safety and efficiency. I must stress that none of these phases are being implemented in the Republic of Serbia. Only some parts of the third phase and the fourth phase, which is before the release into use, are directly clinically conducted in our country. So we're absolutely safe from some non-safe, unwanted effects and we've already checked the drug that comes into our market for further examination. These fourth-stage studies are multicentre, big studies that are really very good to run our industry. I'll tell you, large amounts of money can get into our country through this. First of all, patient insurance is paid, with the donation of therapy, money gets a certain amount of doctors, and I'm going to tell you that the suggestions of all these houses and sponsors were that our doctors are top-level and are doing great at clinical centres and large centres of this research. They are paid a certain amount, they are paid approvals, other taxes are paid in the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, this is a way to come to know, and to modern medicines, because the general view is that prestige is in every country, in the environment, and in our country, which is the quality of medicines used in medical institutions. The most quality medicines are used in the richest, strongest organized medical countries, and this is really prestigious and it is extremely important. The important thing is that this law enables good supervision and allows for increased clinical studies, i.e. their number in our country and thus, I said, for the benefit of both patients and the medical system, but also for our economies. There are still a few laws before us on our country's health system, and one has already mentioned the minister, about clinical centres and major investments expected in Serbia's clinical centres, which is a great thing. Tertiary institutions must be maximumly prepared, in maximum facilities, with highly skilled persons, and that is also for those of us who come from the interior a great deal. But the great thing that this Ministry, in the past term and in this term, with this same minister, does for this country is a quality of equal regional development of medical protection in all parts of this country. I would like to commend the excellent work of this ministry in that field. As an example, I take the city of Novi Pazar, but also other cities. Here, we mention Nis, we mention other cities that really got a lot in these two mandates. Seems to me she's got the most of her waist. Most people have been employed for these two mandates, the most specialization has been given. In this congregation, we have debated so much about medical laws, we have looked for all the ways to help our doctors learn as easily as possible, to educate as possible, to expand the field of medicine and give motivation to our people. That worked very well for the Ministry. There's a lot open in New Market. This same minister has done a great thing for that whole neighborhood, because for the first time, after so many years, the Institute of Public Health is open. We have received one diagnostic centre, of course, through our activity and the activity of the city, the activity of our Minister Rasim Ljajic, but indeed with great help, suggestion and constant assistance from Mr. Minister, we have managed to open up a magnificent diagnostic centre in which we have truly diagnostic methods that have other parts of this country. I can tell you that this is probably what the Ministry did most for that end and that it's really for every praise. I must also point out that the minister and the initiator and the promoter are introducing more of the final steps that we have, and these are the Angel Halls, that the Health Ministry has already brought into the programme of certain planning activities and that we expect this end to be covered by this necessary and really necessary emergency procedure that will save the heads of many people in this area. In front of us, I said, another proposal. This is where the Nish-Pristina-Tirana highway was mentioned, which has nothing to do with medicine. I don't know who bothers making highways in this country. It's especially important for medicine and medicine, so to speak, tourism, medical service. Well, I guess we're the center of this part of the Balkans in medical services. We already in Belgrade have crowds of people coming to some medical problems, dental problems solving. It is a great contribution to our health care and recognition, but also a great economic gain. That way Nis will become the recognized medical center he is. We have a magnificent cardio surgery in Nis, which can supply all over Kosovo. Well, everybody come and be our patients, everybody use the services and, of course, pay for it. It's the only way for this country to be a leader in the region, and that's what it's supposed to be. It should be a centrifugal place for the whole Balkans, for all Balkan countries to bind to Serbia and show great will and desire to be part of certain systems that this country is promoting, also providing certain services that this country is offering. Minister, we as the Social Democratic Party are pleased to support these laws. These are pro-European laws, laws that put wind in the back of European integration. This is another confirmation of your quality work and therefore we will really support these laws in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25419	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25420	Thank you. Today we are talking about the Law on Medical Devices and citizens probably expect us to discuss in the debate how, for example, an 83-year-old, whom I personally know, who has hearing impairment 65%, has no right to obtain medical supplies or hearing aid about the cost of RFO because somewhere it is prescribed that there must be a 70% damage. Citizens expect that when we talk about medical means, we talk about such situations and solve such problems, because that's what they encounter in the face of our health system. Unfortunately, this Law of Medicine, which is before us, does not deal with such situations. Such situations are subject to the arrangements of the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act, which, unfortunately, for my completely unknown reasons, although they passed a public debate at the end of last and early this year, cannot enter the congregation procedure. Instead, the bill promoter sends the Assembly a Law on Medical Devices that regulates transport, import and export, sales, places of sale of medical resources. I guess all these citizens whose hearing is less than 70% damaged would have a place to buy a hearing aid or an auxiliary medical device out of their pocket. I am very sorry that I have the impression that this government does not have the courage to deal with citizens' problems, that instead, it spends its time and resources on passing laws that do not require much trouble or effort, but require that some EU directives be translated, to bring some standards into line. I don't argue that this is important, of course it's important that we have better standards in these areas, I'm just expressing regret that instead of dealing with problems that are vital to our citizens when it comes to the health system, we move our focus on something else. The MP group "Enough Has Been" believes that the Medical Means Act should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure for several reasons. First, as the Minister in introductory address explained, our current law, which bears the name - The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, regulates both the field of medicines and medical resources, both for human and veterinary use. In the EU it is separated and we have to separate those areas, which makes me absolutely logical. What doesn't make sense to me is that only the Law on Medical Devices has come before us, and that the new Law on Medicinal Products and New Law on Medical Devices and Medicinal Products related to Veterinary Application, so that we can say by adopting all three laws – e, this law so far is no longer valid. Instead, the legislator came up with the idea that we should adopt a new Law on Medical Devices and that he would then apply to medical remedies for human use and that the current law would no longer apply in that part and that the second part of the current law would continue to apply. Now we're making a complete papazian that's unnecessary. Maybe there are some situations in which it should and could be done, the type of war emergency, but we're not in an emergency and there's no need to pass this law, and we don't have all the others stored before and we do everything in one sequence. That's the first reason. The second reason why we feel it should be withdrawn from the procedure is its indeterminateness and indeterminateness in certain parts. And the last time we had a debate about the medical law in the field of biomedically assisted fertilization, that grudge stands now. Too many sublegal acts. Please, it's inconclusive that we're doing important things under the law. Closer conditions for imports and exports, the sublaw will be regulated. This and that, the sublegal act will settle. Underlaws don't have criminal provisions, only the law has criminal provisions. All that is provided for in this law, that the sublaw will be governed by law. So I urge that he withdraw from the procedure, that everything that is intended to be done by means of a sublegal act be brought into the new draft of the law, and then return it to the Assembly. Also, the Commissioner for Personality Data Protection has made objections to both laws we are discussing today, and they have not been accepted. Another reason why this bill should be withdrawn from the procedure and done on the basis of the trustee's opinion, then returned to the Assembly to discuss it. The next important, to me an extremely important reason, is the fact that the bill is written contrary to the unique methodological rules for the making of rules. But in an incredibly large amount, the one who wrote the law, the bill, did not follow these rules. Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic had to return this bill to a better arrangement if for no other reason than this formal reason. What do we find in this law? We find, for example, ambiguities and changing the common meaning of some expressions, which is contrary to Article. Article 34 35th unique methodological rules. So in Article 2, where the meanings of some expressions are defined, for a completely unknown reason, the legislator felt that a natural person should be defined as an entrepreneur. Instead of being used as an entrepreneur in law, and we know what it is and how it is defined, as a physical person who performs some work. This brings confusion, changes the established phraseology that exists in the legislation that we have in other laws and is completely unnecessary. Next, I'll read what I resented on the board when we discussed this. In the first 20 members of this law, and the law has 138 members in total, 23 different places appeared the following 15 expressions: custom made device, free hall certification, EEA, declaration of conformity, EC certification, incidents, post market surveillance, market surveillance, collective and prevention actions, CAPA, field safety correct action, FCSA, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease CJD, clinical distortion plan CIP, post market clinical follow up, the unit device shoes-UDI, common definitions CS. Please, in this assembly, we are constantly discussing whether we need a national identity to preserve a letter and choose between two letters, and there is always some debate about whether one, whether two letters. Let's get out of the letter, we have to keep our tongues. There is no reason for these English expressions in this form to stand in this law. They are still scattered through the remaining 138 members, and they are otherwise translated and there is no need to appear in addition to translation into Serbian, as the EU directive has obviously been translated, to also appear in parentheses. The law is not a dictionary. The dictionary is made special. If there are any concerns that you will not recognize what English term is meant. We can't do this. In doing so, it is contrary to the article. Article 24 25 unique methodological rules that require the use of modern Serbian language in our laws and regulations, and when it comes to foreign words, are allowed only if there is no adequate word in Serbian, which is not the case. Please, just so I don't get what I got from the board in response that it's about professional expressions. These aren't professional terms. It is a professional term in vitro. Post market surveillance is not a professional term and there are adequate words in Serbian. Also, no care has been taken of unity and plural while writing this law. We have tried to correct these formal errors by amendments, by a mountain of amendments, and to throw out English expressions, to preserve our Serbian language, to see to what extent the bill's proposer would have heard and what number of amendments would accept, and which ones would not. In doing so, I urge you to consider, once again, that we withdraw from the procedure this law, the bill, that it be better arranged and that it should come to the Assembly in a more formal and fundamentally better form, accompanied by proposals for the amendment of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in Veterinary Medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25421	Thank you very much. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25422	I haven't been able to figure out in the end whether or not to withdraw, whether or not to discuss amendments, please decide which version you're for, so we'll see, there's no problem. As far as the law is concerned, first of all, let me tell you, that all the opinions and all the legislation have passed and that there are of all the people who deal with this, who are connected to this, that they have a positive opinion and agreement on these things. All the things you've been saying, this is the opposite, of course. With this law, we're fixing everything that you've been talking about that exists. I don't know if you haven't read or understood, I don't know, it doesn't matter, but exactly what you insisted on doing here is exactly what these laws are about. I'm glad you said all that, it's all in there, and if you don't mind reading it again. As far as national identity is concerned, I'm glad to hear it from you, to defend it. We'll keep going and we'll listen to you and we'll keep doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25423	Thank you very much. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25424	Dear Presidents, Honored Minister Loncar, State Secretary Vekic, Secretary of State Mahmutovic, colleagues from the Ministry of Health, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have an important law on the security of the treatment of our citizens. This is one of the laws by which citizens can see the well-being of Serbia's EU country and the acceptance of European standards in the treatment and treatment of our patients. This when someone says, we have MPs in parliament who are not in favour of joining the EU. This is one law that will show values for which Serbia wants to join the European family of European peoples, which is that it has a safe health system, a secure system where we will have control of medical resources, control of medicines and with which we will have safer clinical studies. With this law and EU accession, we are practically saving time and using the skills of European legislators to join our legislative system. I think this bill is good for regulation of clinical studies. When we say clinical studies, many citizens don't know what we're talking about today in parliament. As a professor of medical school, I'm personally conducting two studies, but I'm not looking at drugs, but I'm checking, investigating some antigens in some tumor types, and this is something that further regulates this activity and enables the safety of our citizens. As a doctor, I'm a witness in some years, 20, 30 years ago where we had the opportunity to get some medical supplies from Asian countries that I personally was suspicious of with their quality, and time has shown that they weren't exactly adequate and they weren't good, but at that point, we had such a legislator, such a republican government, that they forced us to give citizens such medical supplies and such preparations. This is something that shows that it is good that we are moving towards the EU and that we accept their standards. The minister himself said, and I will repeat to my fellow MPs that from 96 applications in doubting the quality of medical resources originating in countries outside the EU, it was in 70%, that there was a withdrawal from our medical market as soon as it applied. Out of the total number of funds withdrawn for which a quality defect has been identified, 96% were originating in non-EU countries. This is an indication that it is good that we accept European laws and European legislation, because that is how we protect our citizens, and we also show the seriousness as a state that we want to protect our patients who are involved in clinical studies. What I would like to further emphasise is that it is necessary not to believe 100% that we trust all these preparations coming from European countries, not with any doubt that this must be 100%, but that the Ministry should have the opportunity to verify, even those preparations and those medical resources coming from European countries. We have witnessed that in some previous months we have had opportunities for citizens to complain and that there is one story, that Eastern Europe is a place where less quality products from Western European countries can be placed, so we had to withdraw some food products and some technical products, which has nothing to do with medicine. This suggests that as a state, we should have the opportunity to control these products practically in order to ensure the safety of our citizens. I'll turn a little off topic, something that I personally feel sorry for as a doctor, which is that in some earlier times we have voted and transferred the powers of the Ministry of Agriculture to control the many products that enter Serbia, and only the Ministry of Health left to control water, food for babies and children's toys, whether they are infected or have some dose of radiation or not. Everything else has been transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't want to suspect that there are capacities in the Ministry of Agriculture, but as a doctor and as a professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Nis, I'd rather trust our institutes for public health and I'd prefer it more and I'd be safer if our institutes and their reference laboratories were to continue to control at the border crossings, but it's a topic for some other plenary sessions. As an MP, I am boldly saying that it may be better to return it back to the health ministry sector, because we have professional people, reference laboratories, maybe at that point in the legislation, we have some examples from the EU, but I still have the highest confidence in public health institutes and their laboratories. In a concrete example, I'll tell you what was justified in those stimuli when the food came in. Food can't be just a problem for the Ministry of Agriculture. Food, cattle, when it becomes practically processed, it is food and it must be controlled by the very restful Ministry of Health. In the debate we heard an article in 115 of this law, and we heard from colleague Sanda Rasković Ivić and from you, remarks on sponsorship lectures that some doctors, and I will say mostly directors or clinic chiefs abuse, freely that we must have a more transparent way of controlling the spending of these funds. It's true that pharmaceutical houses have the right to give that profit to whoever they want and sponsor who they want. I agree with you, but that profit comes precisely from Serbian citizens and Serbian citizens must know that the price, whether the drug or the medical apparatus is included in the commission given for certain doctors to travel and benefit themselves. I am proud to always say that I spent some two years in Zurich, doing dissertation there, getting to know how pharmaceuticals are spent and how it was regulated in one of the very developed EU countries. At the annual level, a plan is being drawn up to where doctors, clinics, or institutes are going to attend a convention during the year. One doctor can't go to all the conventions. I have information that some doctors don't even go to congresses of their own speciality, they go to other conventions. NJima is an important destination, not a convention that attends, and it is very important that pharmaceutical houses have to publish on their company's website which they sponsored and how much money they sponsored. You have a case that some doctors hold lectures or use the funds of pharmaceutical houses, even competitive ones. I'm an ORL doctor and I work with practically pathology, I meet with pharmaceutical homes that are in this domain. Allergic rhinitis, there are numerous companies, six or seven companies that sell corticosteroids or antihistamines to regulate allergic rhinitis. I have examples of colleagues who, during one convention, have said three lectures and in those three lectures, advertise three different competitive pharmaceutical houses and say in each lecture – this preparation is the best. It's an abuse of position to me, and it's something that we have to prevent as a state, and we have to commit that pharmaceutical houses have to meet the director of an institution they've given the funds to, that the director of the house on his college determines by an expert in the course of the year who's going and where he's going to go. Like this, only doctors who are in charge use all the resources. What about the young doctors? What about the country of Serbia facing difficult economic moments, as the whole of Europe faces? We're a poor country, but there's no shame in being poor. It's a shame to abuse the situation and make it impossible for young doctors to move forward. I would give advantage to young colleagues to perfect themselves in one of the European clinics, I would prefer to buy some appliances or instruments for our clinics, when local self-government can't buy it, precisely from these profits that have pharmaceutical houses can regulate such a thing. What's advertised? That was the same theme, Art. 104, 105, 106 of this law regulates it. Unfortunately, everything and everything is advertised in Serbia, and in all these ads you hear cure this, cures it. I think the abuse of a number of companies using national frequency to national operators in electronic media is the most important profit. I am not running to support that profit is something that we all support in one economic development, but there must be some knowledge of what is being advertised and what kind of message is being sent from television or billboards, who advertises it, because there are a number of preparations that don't have medically justified treatment or benefits from that treatment, except that someone gets a cash profit out of it. I mentioned internal control of the quality of medical resources is very important to control what is entering Serbia. And what interests me as an MP in early times, even in my term as chairman of the Health and Family Committee, you were not a minister at the time, I asked the question, I ask him now. Have any medicines that have not been studied in European countries or the United States been studied in Serbia? I don't have 100% of the information on that, but this law makes it impossible. This law puts an end to it. But one suspicion that existed in some years, in the 1990s, prompted me to talk about it and ask if some medicine from Asia, Africa, was practically, or from some European pharmaceutical houses or American pharmaceutical houses was being questioned in Serbia, and was not being questioned by the citizens of Germany, France or the United States itself. What I further noticed, which should be the ministry and the health ministry's inspection to pay attention, is the growing sale of medical medicines and medical supplies on markets and on fleas. So, in many environments, and even in my Nis, I've noticed that more and more counterfeit drugs are being sold, and the drugs that ran out of medicine. So, you have some people who sell like candy selling fleas and market drugs where, without a problem, our citizens come in communication with sedatives, antibiotics that can't be prescribed or given without the indication of a doctor and without the control of a pharmacist. So it must be taken into account to prevent the possibility of further abuse of individuals, in order to gain personal benefit, and at the heart of our patients themselves. When we talk about the safety of medical supplies and product safety. One topic that captures our public, which is the subject of immunization. In a few terms, and in the last term, we unanimously passed a bill that supports mandatory immunization. As a doctor and as a professor, I can't say again that immunization saved more human lives than any other medical method, any medication, any surgical intervention. Immunization and clean drinking water have raised the practical quality of our lives and it is a civilizational good. To say in the 21st century that it's terrible, that someone wants to make your child sick on purpose is alarming for all of us. The biggest, to me, maybe the problem we should look at together when it comes to immunization. Immunisation opponents skillfully use everything, practically holes in our legislation, in order to call on every opportunity to scare us, and to scare our parents to not vaccinate their child is when a doctor has to sign the safety that the vaccine is correct. I know that, but I want it heard. I don't think it would be bad for the ministry to say the same. The state and MPs when they prescribe the law, when it is said that immunisation is mandatory, the state stands and the state is a guarantee of the security of the process. The antivaccinal lobby is skillfully using all this and Serbian citizens should know that when the state imports the medicine, that the state guarantees the safety of the drug, that there is no reason to worry about parents. Parents are justifiably scared when in the number of charlatanic statements via social networks, they get information that some vaccine is dangerous for this and that. So by this procedure, the state would send a clear message. I don't know in Parliament that someone shares the opposite opinion, as far as immunization itself is concerned. At the MP's club, we talked about it, since I came out publicly, means the DS MPs' club supports the process of immunization and opposes the charlatan statements and the growing, practically one of the unreasonable behaviors of individuals who perform, soar fear and cause harm to our children and to the health of the nation. On the Health and Family Committee last term, I said there were several kinds of coups. That there's military, but there's also this kind of security impact, i.e. To the health of our children and our nation. And here we have to be unanimous and unique, because the danger of charlatans that are increasingly emerging on the media is serious, and this requires a serious and clear response from our country. When we mentioned in the second draft of the law, the addition of the Law on Medical Documentation, I will say about the ISIS programme that everything that is new in Serbia initially has resistance, and it has resistance mainly from doctors and healthcare professionals, but this programme is something that is good, and that brings us back together with EU countries. In all European countries, there is such a health information system that makes it easier for citizens as well as for healthcare professionals themselves. As a doctor with more than 25-26 clinical practices, I want to tell you that there are anomalies a little bit in this program and that he needs to be abdicated and he's still perfected. Clinical centres as a tertiary institution are buried by some, perhaps lazy or irresponsible colleagues from primary health care, who are easier to pass on the patient to a tertiary health care facility. And here I am as a professor buried in some examinations that should be done by a general practitioner. Whether someone itches their ears or noses or a bit of an earaches, that's the general practice problem. A patient who cannot be diagnosed in primary health care must be sent to a tertiary health care facility, and should be diagnosed with more sophisticated diagnostics at a clinical center, or operated at clinical centres. This is one small remark, not to mention, but to suggest that one way to communicate with patients is still perfected and to disable, when you have a unique program to now make modifications by doctors themselves from primary health care, that when you have no appointment with a particular doctor, then it gives you a priority instruction within 24 hours, to give you a no-date notice within 30 days, to give you a green instructions from the emergency medical care that you legally need to receive a patient. Personally, health workers will never refuse anyone without guidance. I have to say, I've had situations that I've had patients who have been severely hurt or sick and I've never brought anyone back from the infirmary, and I think that's how all the other colleagues think and react. But we need to make it easier for them to work and give tertiary healthcare institutions more time to deal with those jobs they've been paid for. At the very end, a transplant was mentioned and some doubts about the very transplant from counterpart Sanda Raskovic Ivić, I again react as a national MP, but primarily as a doctor. Transplants are also one method that saves people's lives and something that is good and that as a state, we have reason to be positive, since it's done a lot, but we still need to work on perfecting our doctors, but also on legislation. I will be free to say here publicly that I have advocated in the Democratic Party's parliamentary club the idea of Serbia entering a change of law on this issue and that all citizens of Serbia are potential donors. It's something that's hard for many politicians to say, because everyone's afraid of a negative rating. We need to know here that the transplant saves people's lives, that we have few donors, and that by changing the law, they would become shoulder to shoulder with European countries, such as Eurotransplant countries, where our citizens would be easier to reach the desired organ and where their lives would be extended and where their families would be happy. I want to live in Serbia in the 21st century, not in Serbia, not in Serbia, not in Serbia, not in Serbia, but in some gossip, but in an avant-garde, progressive and good-fair Serbia. So we talked about this, if I came up with such a bill, you'd be backed by an opposition party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25425	Thank you. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25426	First, one of the reasons why this law is passed is what started to sting everyone's eyes, which is the appearance of drugs at the market, on various improvised markets and the rest. This law is a kind of guarantee that such things can't happen, because, simply, procedures are such, they have to be respected. At that time, it will be clear to all Serbian citizens that only drug can be bought in a pharmacy, a pharmacy that meets all conditions to work. I once again appeal to all the people who notice it, see, to inform the Ministry of Health immediately, and we will respond at the same time. Because it's a problem that has to be solved quickly. Because when people take these medicines, we really don't know what tomorrow we can expect, nor can we easily establish a diagnosis, because we have no idea what they've been drinking. They can say what they were taking from the drugs, but they don't say where they bought those drugs. This is one of the serious reasons why this law is in line with the laws of the European Union, just so these things don't come to light. As for the remark, which absolutely stands, this is one new thing, about an appointment over the central, to get your appointment, there are obstructions. It's hard for people to get used to new things. Not enough time is given by doctors, nor by general practice, nor by specialist doctors. But it's slowly coming in. It's impossible overnight to change something that wasn't, no matter how good it is and no matter how helpful it is to everyone. I'll just tell you that in 30% of the scheduled exams, people don't show up, they fail and they're gone. People, it's a serious problem, you make an appointment and you don't come. You're checking to see if it works. You get an appointment and you don't show up on that date, and someone because you've been playing doesn't get an appointment, which means it does. I appeal to everyone. We've been thinking about how we can sanction it, do something, but there's no way. There's no way to say - well, you've abused it, you can't see a doctor next time. It can't be. It's human rights. The only thing we can do is appeal to everyone not to do it. Keep in mind that it saves someone's life, that someone comes to a doctor and solves their problem, because you're playing, to see if it works, and if you're going to get an appointment within a week or two days, and in fact you don't need it at all. Someone's calling because they really need it. The other thing that's going to help a lot is these e-recepts, when we're going to charge 50-60% of doctors at home for health, because more patients who are chronic patients won't have to go to the doctor every month, get their appointments, pay for participation, and then go to the pharmacy, but they'll be able to go twice a year just to go, and all the rest of the time, every month they go to the pharmacy and take the medicine. So we leave time to doctors in the health care home to have less for bureaucracy and more for those patients who really need it, to assess where to go and what to do. It's just a fact. She's progressed in medicine. Medicine isn't what it used to be. You had doctors in the infirmary, in the country or anywhere, and when you took the child, you didn't have to take the child further away from there, or the ORL specialist, or the second, third, specialists, they were people with experience who could solve those problems. And now we don't have people like that, because, simply, medicine is divided into these branches, everyone deals with their branch, and they're rare people with experience who can recognize, do and stand behind what they're doing without saying that they're moving on. But we need to adapt to this and establish a system that will work. As far as the transplant is concerned, great effort has been made. Just imagine the situation when you have a patient in the hospital and you know that his only cure is a transplant. You have him, you have his family, whether it's a heart transplant, whether it's a lung transplant, whether it's a liver transplant, a kidney, a pancreas, or anything else. You have this patient, you have his family, and you all know that the only cure that he can live, that he can function normally is if he gets an organ, if he gets a transplant. Only two choices exist – or that we are working on having a donor to get that patient to live, that the family still has a member and that works for society, which involves itself most normally after that in social life. Or, another way, what do you do? Let that man die, what? Or let's say -- you know, we have some doubts, we suspect that someone will sometimes abuse it, and for that reason we won't do anything, we'll let go, there we go, that's it. Today, even when you have money, you can't go abroad and do a transplant. There's not enough organs. You can have whatever you want, as much as you want. It's just, it's a system that's designed so you can't get on that list. So, I'm glad you support, I'm glad there's one thing that has nothing to do with politics. Ludi, let's save people's lives. You know, there are currently about a thousand of these people in Serbia waiting, depending on whether they will get an organ, whether they will survive. We have success, it's increased. We've reached 32, 33 donors. It takes us 35 days a year to meet minimum standards. Here, I'm telling you, we got to the 32nd donor yesterday. I think we'll get to 35 in the year. Tens and dozens of people, we saved their lives. Not to say how much it costs. Every transplant abroad is a minimum of 120,000 euros. We have 90, 100 transplants. Now figure out what that is. And if we had the money to pay for it, we wouldn't find the organ. Don't play with those things. It's not a shooting thing. It's not a matter of day-to-day politics. Only those two choices exist, to support it or, God forbid, to let people die. There's no third choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25427	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25428	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have three important laws ahead of us. What came to my attention at first moment is that the practice of this Assembly continues to adopt important laws by an urgent procedure, which is unclear to me and I don't know why. This applies to both congregation services and government. On the other hand, the justification for these three legislative proposals is, at the very least, a simple political pamphlet. I expected the minister to explain a little more plastic and more seriously, not just to read the argument we've already received, about these three legislative proposals. So these laws, in fact two of these laws, should represent the alignment of our domestic legislation with EU legislation and so on, at first glance, and in fact, there should be no problem. However, when you look a little deeper at it, it is edifying, you see, in fact, that under the hat of our regulations agreeing with European legislation, you have a tendency and a desire for the legislator to keep as many things as possible unchanged. So we're changing something so we don't actually change. What is a key issue here – what will change in Serbia's health system when you adopt these three laws that are on the agenda? Will patients in Serbia get better? Will they have more available health care? Will they be able to heal more easily with their doctors? Will he have better services? Will better working conditions have health care professionals in terms of earnings, wages, the number of reviews they have? In fact, it won't affect that condition. I want to tell you that these laws will not essentially change what is a serious problem in Serbia, which is a very bad health system, which in the last five years, here, for six years you have been in power, unfortunately, has not changed for the better, although we have listened to different announcements that things will change. I will read one statement to you, which says: “We have good doctors, and very good doctors, and probably even enough hospitals, but the organisation of the system is outdated, harmful and does not meet the needs of service in the modern economy of the 21st century. The reaction of our health system is inadequate. The people have been waiting for months before the doctor can take them. Regular people in our country who have no ties or money are neglected and do not have the opportunity to be examined immediately. “ Do you know who made this statement? Your President Aleksandar Vukic, then prime minister in 2014. And all of what he said in 2014 could probably happen again today without anything changing. The same was true in 2012, when you came to power. So, in 2014, he said not bad, and today at the end of 2017 we can see that nothing more important has changed. What it says is that the health system in Serbia does not work adequately, in fact, is what you see in all hospitals or health homes when you go through Serbia. I invite you, Mr. Minister, not to go on a campaign tour of health centres when you assign them any equipment, devices, sanity vehicles, but to dress up as an ordinary citizen one day and get into waiting rooms and hear what the patients in Serbia think, who need to be treated in this country, to visit the hospital ward in Kruševec, in Sombor, in any other and to hear from ordinary citizens what the problem is and why they cannot reach adequate healthcare and why it is not available to them in an adequate way. Also, to talk to doctors, but not politically, not for the purpose of campaigning and promoting SNS, but, just like you said for a little while – there are some things that are above politics, and that certainly must be health care, such as education and some other things that represent the foundation of society. Investment in health is not a cost, not a cost, but an investment in the future and health of a nation. You today also have a situation in Serbia that health centres, especially health homes, are absolutely independent of politics. You have the directors of health homes that are being put up politically, they've been standing up before, but I'm saying nothing's changed for the better. So you have workers, medical workers and doctors and technical staff who stick to work contracts, and depending on the change in political parties, so do they. I'm going to tell you an example from my Triestenik, where the new director of the health home broke contracts last year to everyone who worked for seven, eight years as techs on contracts for a certain time and brought new ones without work experience because they're politically similar. So we can't play with our health. If someone for seven, eight years hasn't changed some people because they've done their job well and professionally, does that mean that when they change and another party comes to power that we should drive these people away and someone else comes to do it? The result of this incompetent management of medical institutions is also blocked medical institutions...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25429	Mr. Alexic, will you finally discuss the subject of the agenda? I'll let you go for six minutes. You're not talking about laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25430	Mr. Arsic, I really don't know, it's as if you only want to warn me in this room. I'm talking about the law right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25431	You're not talking about the law. I will now remind you of what the laws are called – Proposal for a Law on Medical Resources, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Financial Contract between the Clinical Centres of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. It's this debate, and then we can discuss delegations, it's not controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25432	That's what I'm talking about, but you don't want me to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25433	I've been letting you go for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25434	It's not six minutes. I talked before that about the laws, but you interrupted me and took one minute away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25435	We'll give you that one minute back, but you try to find a topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25436	Absolutely. The topic of the agenda is these laws I'm talking about, the first two, and the third one I haven't been able to talk about, and I'm going to talk about it. So, as far as this alignment is concerned, it is, in fact, a list of wishes to keep the current situation in Serbia. That is why the SDS parliamentary group – The People's Party will not vote for this law, but because these laws will not, as I have already said, solve what is the problem in Serbia. You'll probably want to make things easier with these laws, and I welcome that. All the people who are professional in this area have said that there is a need to separate the Law on Medical Equipment and the Drug Law, and that is not controversial, but that will not solve the problem, as my predecessors have said. Today in Serbia, our citizens face the fact that there are fewer people who remain to treat them. Every year, from Serbia, as you know, Mr. Minister, it goes from 800 to 1,000 doctors to some data and statistics that I could find, and because there are very bad conditions for functioning in Serbia's health systems. So, the salaries of our healthcare professionals, if we look at technical persons or watch nurses is at 35,000 dinars, doctors are 60,000 dinars, and on the other hand you have doctors who have more than 80,000 or 90,000 dinars. Why are they leaving? They're leaving because they can't get a job in our facilities...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25437	My colleague Alexic, I remind you again – the Law on Medical Resources, the loan of improvements to clinical centres in Serbia in the area of tertiary protection. Do you know what that is?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25438	I'd be happy if you'd meet me, since obviously I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25439	You obviously don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25440	You obviously don't understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25441	I understand. You want to tell the medical law how doctors have low wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25442	Don't they?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25443	It's not the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25444	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25445	It's not a theme. Are you going back on the subject or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25446	It's all about the law because you represent these laws as if they in Serbia would change who knows what, you know? The minister, if we're talking about the third law, gave a little more reason when he was talking about the wall that needs to be knocked down on the clinic center building in Nis, that he had to be made to get the building in, and then it collapsed to bring the magnetic resonance or anything else into place. I believe it was a lapus. We had a man who wasn't really a man, he was a fool, who made a boat in his room that couldn't get out of his room, so he had to knock down the wall to get it out. That sounds like it. I hope that argument doesn't stand and that it's a mistake of architects or some of the builders. I absolutely support investment, investment in health centres, absolutely. So that's something that for years in Serbia wasn't a practice, but building four health centres, painting some hospitals in Serbia won't solve the problems I'm trying to talk about. I'm trying to talk about reality, but you won't let me. This parliament should stand in the protection of medical personnel. You have an example of Romania. In Romania, parliament voted that the salaries of their medical workers from 1,000 euros to doctors would be increased to 1,700 for nurses and technicians from 530 to 900. That's why we're leaving people. That's why we're not keeping them with these laws. Furthermore, what is a problem for waiting lists, which is a problem for the inaccessibility of our doctors, our health system for Serbian citizens, is that in our country doctors seem to have much more to do, do not apply the same standards as in the EU. I don't need to protect them, they know it very well, but if there are 350 doctors per 100,000 people in the EU, why would there be 280 or 290 of us, if it's technical personnel at 100,000 people coming in 800 technicians, it comes in Serbia about 620. All this leads to corruption and inconsistency of private practice with our health system, and all of this ultimately has consequences for our citizens who should have adequate treatment in line with the contributions to health insurance that they are actually setting out. In five years, Mr. Minister, absolutely nothing happened. So let's not be honest and say anything, some things have happened. I'll commend you. One of the good things is a gamma knife. It may be the best thing this government has done in five years. I don't know what else I can spare. I'll support you in getting a cyber knife and whatever you want. But, Mr. Minister, don't act here like we now want to bring the European level of health into Serbia by adopting two laws. Don't pretend that you don't pass, that you don't see the condition in the homes of health, the condition in hospitals, the conditions in these hospitals, regardless of what happens in the Clinical Center of Nis, the day it ends, there will be better conditions. It's not all of Serbia. I invite you to pass. The other thing, as far as the Medical Devices Act is concerned, I don't think medical means are always a problem in themselves. I'll give you one example, let's say in Tristenik municipality a young girl died this summer when she was 14, minister, because we only had one crew on duty who was already on the ground. She couldn't make it in time and answer the call. We had enough Sanitation vehicles, sometimes bought a municipality, once the Ministry, but we didn't have enough doctors and medical staff to leave and to provide help to a girl who passed away in 14 years. Also, Mr. Minister, when we talk about the funds, I have referred you a question about last year's death case at Krushevac hospital, a 23-year-old boy who was only established sepsis in Belgrade, and he was treated by a fever downstairs. That's the problem of this country, that's the problem. Start doing that, start reforming the system. It's okay, you'll split up today or tomorrow, when the laws of medicine and medical means are passed, it's not a problem. All right, you're gonna finish the Clinical Center, even though you're finishing it already, who knows how long and the deadlines are up. The President of the Republic said in July that he would be released in a few days, so here we are now waiting for that wall to be torn down, so it would open, etc. But it's gonna end and that's good. And, that's good, everyone else in Serbia should end up, and hospitals, but give what is the cancer of the health system in Serbia, which is the working conditions of employees, the number of doctors, the availability of medical services to citizens. Give it to me, make it easy. You had a situation where the Ministry of Health couldn't ensure that people came to new health books. It took months, people didn't know what they were going to do. You know how much trouble that was. Once when she was a paper health book, they used to get it with a stamp in one day. You know how long this process is now, or something better than what it was. These are the problems and it will not solve any of these laws that you have proposed on the agenda today. So, I want to tell you that you can't plant cactus on ice by ministers or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You can't make a roof without having a dug-out foundation yet. All this is good, we will not be helped by the European Regulation and the EU, by harmonising the laws with them, we ourselves in our own backyard to clean up everything that is presently a problem. Don't let it, don't let it, and you've been ruling in Serbia for a long time, so that Serbia continues to be mentioned as a country among the world's first corruption index. Do not allow the health consumer index published by the EU, Mr Minister, to keep Serbia always around the last place. Actually, it's official statistics, you probably know that, but you can't say that, because you're telling citizens what suits you. So that's what the problem is and that's why our SDP parliamentary group, the People's Party will not support this legislative proposal. If you need support and help reform health care, and you have been announcing this reform for five years, as well as the reform of Serbia as a whole, please contact us, we have some programs, so we'll let you see what you need to do in your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25447	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25448	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. So, I'm advertising Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly. On several occasions you interrupted the previous speaker, who was authorized in front of his parliamentary group under this law. You claimed that he was breaking the rules in this home in some way by talking about topics that aren't on the agenda. I'll remind you, since you've read it completely twice, I'm not going to say it wrong, but you've twice listed one of the three laws that we're talking about today in this house. You said the proposal for a law on medical means, it is not disputed, it is on the agenda, but there is also a draft law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health and also, a bill on the confirmation of a financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, when it comes to clinical centres in Serbia. So, of course we can talk, especially in the debate in principle, about all the issues that interest citizens, and they are about the conditions in these clinical centres, of course, it is about public health and everything that affects every day every citizen who has the fear of inability to treat and you can't, for that reason, interrupt a speaker just because he cited topics that are interested in Serbian citizens today, which makes them unhappy with the state of health. So I have absolutely no problems, the minister will answer every question asked and every MP has the right to ask on behalf of the citizens what the citizens are interested in. So if it's the means that's going to improve some clinical center tomorrow, why not talk about the situation that's in these clinical centres today?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25449	Are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25450	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25451	Great. Like this, my colleague Bozovic, I listened with attention to my colleague, Alexic, and since it was medical supplies and medications, I expected him to finally tell us and discover what the mafia farm was during his rule in Serbia. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. I answer to your Rules of Procedure, and I can't break it. (Balsa Bozovic: You just broke it. I didn't get an answer to that question. I also didn't want to interrupt my colleague because it was clinical centres, and he was talking about health homes that don't belong to the republic, but they belong to primary health care organized by local self-government. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. So you can't accuse me of injureing the dignity of the National Assembly and fellow Alexic in any way. I was just trying to get the debate back on the agenda, not to get out of this topic, because there are people who understand this, so they can misread that some MPs are not up to their task. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25452	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103. 106, 108, etc. Mr. Chairman, you certainly witnessed yesterday the permanent insult of the entire parliamentary group and the coalition... National MP Zoran Krasic throws it away. The one who throws one would have to be punished. And that's what I suggest. So you witnessed the outrageous accusations that we suffered just from the previous MP who advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. In this advertising, the group has again abused the Rules of Procedure. It was a discussion, it was a replica. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 103, in order to warn this imaginative MP in time to abuse the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, I suggest you refuse those two minutes, in accordance with Article 103, paragraph 8. Rules of Procedure and thus warn new insults to this very imaginative MP, who accused us yesterday of death and I don't know what else. So I suggest that you seriously consider it this time and use your right, take away this parliamentary group for two minutes, so that they will fight each other in the opposition as much as they will, but they cannot use the Rules of Procedure by having a new discussion and which is a replica to some previous discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25453	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25454	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. The dignity of the National Assembly has been marred by demeanor and untrueness. This offended all those health workers who...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25455	He was already a member of 107. You can't do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25456	Article 109, then, because the previous speaker, on several occasions, spoke outside the topic of the agenda, although you warned him. So, when it comes to the state of health, I really have to say that big steps have been made, that this is the truth that's been made on this subject. When it comes to Triestenik, where it is fortunate that at the time of the predecessor ministers came by donating vehicles and equipment to the homes of health and health institutions and thus improving work. Trstenik alone received a 60,000-euro mobile hospital from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, but the municipality of Trstenik also invested in vehicles intended for health homes in rural areas, so that all fellow citizens, all patients have adequate treatment conditions. Also, the Ministry of Population Policy has approved funds for the procurement of radio waves. All doctors are directed to specialization in those areas from which they are missing. As far as determining responsibility is concerned. I really ask you to warn the previous speaker to leave responsibility to the authorities in all situations, because we advocate that all those responsible are responsible for exactly what they did under the law. We also leave it to the authorities to determine responsibility, because these words came from the person currently being questioned whether or not there are elements of the crime in spending 54 million pairs of Serbian citizens through the NGO project, which just belonged to my previous speaker. That money was meant for disabled persons, to improve their position, to improve the geronto services, and indeed the authorities need to determine whether there are or no elements of criminal responsibility here, but we leave it to them to determine this. I'm asking you to warn the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25457	Thank you. Now I've been informed that you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure on a member who, since you've replicated? Article 109. So, you abused the Rules of Procedure's breach institute because you replicated it. I'll give you the Minister's word. Darko Laketić, as authorised, has the right because he is authorised in front of the SNS. (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. You've already spoken to the Rules of Procedure, there's no need. (Balsa Bozovic: No, he is injured again. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25458	Thank you. President, first of all, I have to say, and to take my word for it, I've come forward as an authorised representative of the party. I can say it's really embarrassing that in this noble home we listen to things, we listen to some pausal sentences, the untruths that come out. I'm allergic to, first of all, every half-truth, half-information, so anything that doesn't fit the truth. I'll tell you what's true. The truth is, and so does Mr. Minister, that during the period when Mr. and his party G 17 plus, the government, that funds were spent for the Institute of Transfusion, when one noble thing was to be done for our country, to create one plant for the separation of blood, unfortunately, those funds were gone. There's no such thing as funds. These funds are not even justified. I will also remind Mr. Minister, but also the citizens of this country – the deadline for the completion of clinical centres was 2009. Why aren't clinical centres completed within the specified time limit? Here, I'm asking you? Where is the money paid in that period until 2009, in line with the dynamics agreed with the EU? Where are the funds? Where is the funding from EU-funded projects, and we know there was a donation on the one hand during that period, but there were credits as well. We also know that these funds, unfortunately, are not justified but have been lost, and that the health system has not experienced...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25459	Thank you very much. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25460	I thank the president. I'm advocating Article 27, where the president of the National Assembly takes care of the session order and conducts the session. So I absolutely don't want to abuse the Rules of Procedure, nor do I ever do that. What was the subject is that your vice president, on several occasions, broke the Rules of Procedure, not you, but your predecessor, who sat in your seat, Mr Arsic, did not know what the laws were on the agenda, and he commented on your position as chairman, as well as how these laws should be discussed in the first place. I asked him, or I wanted to ask him to return to his post, to the MP's bench, and as you often do, to simply take a word from his place and to respond to anyone who thinks he has misunderstood, interpreted or explained some of his vision of things today in Serbia, and not to abuse the presidency from your place and to speak, attack, accuse, and that no one can answer him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25461	Thank you. Should we vote? Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25462	Honestly, I really can't believe what I heard, what you told me. I'd ask you, if you don't mind, once again listen to yourself for what you've done, but I understand you. I understand, you're coming from G17 who had a minister for 10 years and I don't need to explain, they know how it was for the citizens at the time. During that time, since you are calling on some European institutions, the commissions that judge at your time, when you led, we were unable to come to that list of European indices, to be the last. The last one we couldn't come to be, so we came to be the last, so we moved 12 places and skipped certain EU countries. In your time, you've banned specializations. You didn't give specials. By law, you asked for two years for someone to work in order to compete, then you didn't give specials. You didn't hire anyone in the competition. It was employed on the tariff – whether it was a party member, whether or not it was an active party member, eight, 10, 12 and 15,000. So that's your score. You mentioned health care homes. Homes of health, you, your brilliant idea of regions, let local self-government go. Blocks? What are the blockades? The blockades are all from your period. You need to pay back those debts, not us, you. You need to explain to the citizens why they're coming now, why they're losing in court and why they're coming to take the property. You're the one who has to pay for it. You and your staff that you ran back then. In your day, there was an over a million-euro "Jucit" Sanity affair. If they bought the sanity, you might not remember, you did sleep through it, so you talked all this out. There were no more than a million euros, no more sanity, no more. We found the machines in the warehouses. As the election went, that's how you bought the appliances and put them in storage. He didn't have anyone to work, nor was it ever activated, no guarantees failed, everything. That's the result. In your time, you said well, people went to the gamma knife, to the cyber knife, to the accelerators that the rays were not welcomed at all, unfortunately, about the Stonestone not to talk. It was in your time. As far as that goes, I'd like to, here I'm telling you all, you pick, let's go together to any home of health, any hospital, I'm every day among these people and among patients and employees, to see what they say, what they think of you, what you've done for your ten years. I don't know how you can even talk about it, man, I don't get it. To look in the mirror and say what you were saying. I don't understand it, and I'll never understand it. Let's go among the people, we can take a break now, pick wherever we want, go you and me, to any home of health at any hospital. We don't have a problem. We got four accelerators, so we got six more accelerators so people could beam up, meet those standards. Over 100 sanity vehicles, mobile vehicles, hospitals. We took the most modern cyber, more modern than a cyber knife. Mr. Darling, we talk to patients every day, people. We hired over 8,500 in health care, over 3,500 doctors, gave over 6,000 specializations, to make up for what you ruined. You find it appropriate to talk about employment?- I'm sorry. Well, do you think the citizens are so much that you said you had, I don't know, I don't know, some neighbor, or what was wrong with you, so the citizens are just like that, so the citizens don't know anything? If you'd done one tenth of what we did, you'd never have fallen into power. A tenth if you'd done it, you'd never have fallen into power. Not that you didn't, but you ruined everything and the citizens know it well. You're saying you're going to make a suggestion. Well, you know what happened in Nis when we took power? A meadow flooded with water, and now 50,000 square meters almost inhabitable in a month. Was it a month, two? All right, it is, but the meadow was, dear sir. Cardio-surgery healed into weeds, the hospital in Krusevec didn't have windows, it blew from all sides without talking about appliances and the like. And now you're saying something. Well, is that possible? (Marco Atlagic: They had full pockets. That's right, they had a lot of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25463	Thank you. Replica, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25464	You know, Mr. Minister, besides being nervous and you're trying to make a lie out of it, so I'm gonna have to inform you something. First of all, I am not ashamed of my political past, of what you have called me, or of anything I have done in my life in the functions I have worked on. Never, never before last year have I dealt with republican authority, government, ministry, anything. I'm the last person you can respect. Here across from me sits half of me in both the government and the ministries and everywhere, and members of the G17, and the URS, and DSS, and the radicals, of which you are made, and you now honor me. You're probably not informed that these same people are running that government of yours today, and that's why there's no result. I have every right to talk about it today, because you've been ruling for six years. I have nothing to be ashamed of. I did not have any contact with the "earth clan" at the time when someone was in health, unlike you, nor did I have any problem photos, nor did anything bad be said to me or to anyone, unlike you, Minister. Now that you're asking me to talk about it, look at your past, and political and whatever else you want before you call someone else. A little while ago, someone called me, me, for the pharmacology. I, who was in Tristenik, president of the municipality in 2016 and I have never dealt with anything like it, and you said the other day that you had information that some pharmaceutical houses caused a crisis and made an affair of vaccination. You know what that means? That you know, and you won't say who needs to answer because it violates the health of Serbian citizens. It's the irresponsible behavior of a minister. Come out and tell us who this pharmaceutical house is playing with the lives and health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25465	Thank you. Time. You have three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25466	I really think you've got something mixed up, and I understand that from your side, because I see you're starting to get upset. It's all normal and it's all right. As for who it came from, where it came from and so on, I'm not going to go into that controversy with you, but as far as the government's work results are concerned, unlike what you left us a few months before bankruptcy, we're in a situation where we have a surplus this year, to raise salaries and pensions, to have record investments so far, that we've reduced unemployment. These are only certain parts, i.e. the general opposites of what you left behind. I repeat, if you had done one tenth of what the government and the Ministry are doing now, you would have been in power for life.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25467	Thank you very much. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25468	Thank you. Of course, these two laws, actually three, but I'm going to talk about the first two, about medical means and about medical records and records, are in some way the result, I can't use the words "extorted laws," but certainly laws that respond to some state we have. As far as the first law is concerned, it is a reaction to the fact that we have started a mess in the drug market and medical resources, that it did not respond in time to the state. When I say state, I mean not only the Ministry of Health, but also the Medical Chamber, especially the Serbian Medical Society. So this vaccination thing and everything that's going on, faith in magic potions, it's all the consequence of a state of society that's been abandoned. You can't transfer it to one government, it's completely wrong. We can have that conversation now, but I'm afraid someone's going to go very badly in that conversation. So let's talk about what to do, be constructive this time, not be a purely political speech. We don't have any social action. Remember, ten years ago, it was an anti-smoking action, which was justified. So society can run a certain action, and it was supposed to advocate vaccination, not get into a situation where we tremble because our children are going to die and that charlatans in public are more influential. I look at my fellow doctors, and it's respected doctors who do immunology, they're simply defensive in these public debates, because nobody's on their side. As I would say, this is the consequence of two things, this extorted law first. It's the general poverty of the citizens. I can't say that the Ministry can do much, but it's certain that poor people go to the market, buy medicines, have unscrupulous campaigns both against social networks and in tabloids that live on these ads very often, very cynically, in which they are suggested to take medical resources that are completely inadequate, and probably even some of them are contraindicated for their health. As far as this second law is concerned, I was already speaking on the Committee on Health, it is a logical result of the fact that once a change of law is centralized documentation medically. That's what we have in the world, and that's okay. It's nothing different than elsewhere, because it's going to be an electronic collection of that data. However, in all these countries and even when such things occur, the issue of the security of these data is raised. It's crucial, actually, here. It's not crucial for me that the Batut Institute was given, somewhere it had to be, even I don't think it's a bad solution, because I don't see who else would do it, but I support those who say that, regardless of what it is, I'm probably not a lawyer, they're looking for changes to the Criminal Code. I think there's got to be a huge violation of that. We've had cases in one of the tabloids very explicitly that presented one person's medical records. I remind you now that, first of all, this applies to psychiatric diseases, but it applies to others, for example. Full disease, etc. I'm particularly a psychologist interested in psychiatric diseases, because the fact that someone was being treated, that he had schizophrenia, that he had any of the more serious mental disorders, actually, that man is being destroyed somewhere. We call it social death, it's social death. After that, he will have problems practically in every environment. That's why it's one extremely serious thing for me. We had an explanation of the assistant, the legal expert, that the Guardian of Citizens supported the law, and after that, now from that point of view, he criticized him. The right to tell you, I can't speak for him, nor know why he supported it then. The law itself isn't bad, I said it, but I just said that I think in this part of the law it has to be sharper. So you had to go and propose to amend the Criminal Code and sanction this sharply. Still, let it be, as I say, a serious sanction must be if this is broken. Do you have any awareness of what it means in some small environment for a vulnerabilities person when you bring out information about when she was treated, how she was treated, etc? People have the right to their privacy. So, this law, the centralization of electronics, has suddenly raised the issue of privacy. I think it should've put more weight on it. What I'm really saying is, I think those who say they're wrong, this is the Assembly, this is a political debate, this is not a Serbian medical society, so that people who are all doctors sit here right now. Theoretically, it could happen that the Assembly doesn't have any doctors. This is a political body, and it could have happened that out of 250 MPs, none of them have... Of course, it doesn't make sense or it's hard to believe, but no one's a pharmacist, no veterinarian, no dentist, no doctor, we're having a political debate here. Just like the people sitting in the ministry, I think with so little resources being allocated, and that's the bottom line, our budget is very modest and the resources that stand out per capita are among the lowest in Europe. It's a reality, and you can't have an ideal health system with so little money. It's a simple fact. Whoever's the minister in five years and 10 and 15 will have the same problem. He's in a situation where he's patching up and he's palitative or by some decision, he's making a difference. By the way, be the first tender that the government had since 2000, where there were also five centres of oncology, I was the president of the tender commission and I insisted that it be paid, knowing that any delay in the treatment of patients was actually a condemnation to death. These are diseases where you can't delay treatment, radiation, therapy, and it's actually death penalty, it's almost killing patients. I can absolutely guarantee you that this tender has passed fairly and that no one has taken a single dime. The point is, we've all installed ourselves to help the health system, and to say for your time everything's been bad, and in our time it's all good. You know, it's a purely political statement. It's not true, you can talk about who did more, who did better, who made the decisions but say what you'd say while you were, and not to mention that some people, the same people, are sitting in the health system, say after 15 or 17 years, so that's what it's all about in itself could be analyzed here. The point I'm trying to say is, I'm interested in two things. First, will we once do what is necessary. Our citizens have learned, they have now forgotten a little, that we once had a health system after the war, where all people were guaranteed all forms of health care, really free of charge. We can only say nice things about that system. It was a serious system. It was a social state and that state guaranteed health care to all its citizens. Unfortunately, we no longer have and live in what we live in. When you talk about guaranteed health services, in practice they are not guaranteed, patients come to clinics with bandages, with gauze, with sheets, it's better now than it was, I admit. Either way, and now there's still that. They say if you have the means to get the cure. We don't, it's not on the list, etc. and that's what serious doctors recommend, give useful advice, medically helpful. We need to agree here, which are really health services our country provides to patients but really. You've got everything on paper, but in practice, it's not. So we would have to agree once, what exactly is this package that the state guarantees, with these miserable means. Small, scary, small means. So, what we're practically guaranteeing is that when a man goes to the hospital, he knows he'll get this as a health care service. We can't have one system that's generally general, everything is covered, and in practice, it's not real because there's no means and it can't be done. Secondly, there are these health system studies in Europe, we're not doing very well, we've moved in some aspects, but no one wants to look, to analyze these results, what's wrong with our health system. I'll give you one example. All these research, so it's an old problem, it's not a single government problem, it's a constant health system problem. We have, for example, examples of working, our patients sit in the hospital too long when they do analysis. In the West, the analysis ends in one day, in Western Europe or maybe two, our patient sits down for days until they finish his whole analytical part. The health system is inefficient. It's not as much an asset as a health care organization. So our system is inefficient and the patients are losing too long, if you want me to answer that research, I read them carefully, the patients in Serbia stay in hospitals much longer than they should, because there is no well-organized health care, could be more effective. This is one thing where some reserve is to be cheaper, something health care system and be more efficient. I'm interested in when we're going to look at these analyses, take a careful look at them, and get what we can out of them because, of course, we're out of 15 euros, I don't know how many months per patient, what is that? Yeah, I'm deaf for years, but they're very small, I've already said they're awfully small, they're almost the lowest, there's the lower ones, there's, there's a percentage of the budget cuts, etc. It's still low when you look at it like that. So I have no illusions, but we have to fix in the system once what, for example, we've abolished volunteer specialists, we have volunteers. He's been wandering around in the system a lot. As I say, we have private medical schools, we don't have private medical schools. Now it's a different system than it was. Which we approve, which we don't. Where's the shortage, where's the surplus. Why is the continued burden of territorial health care rather than putting emphasis on the primary. Our people go straight to the top expert on the most banal stuff. Why do we burden people, as I would say, whose knowledge, whose qualifications are valuable, and they should deal with what they need to do. Someone has to answer the question, why do people schedule a doctor's appointment so they don't come? You can't just say that, and as a psychologist, I'd like to investigate it now. It's quite possible it's quite possible, so go to those patients, ask, we wanted to ask you why you failed and why you gave up. I have a personal question about why someone would even schedule a checkup, so they wouldn't leave. It seems illogical to me. Let's just say he wasn't doing well, he gave up, and that would be a small percentage. I'm looking for an answer. Now, my claim that I can't say that I have a problem in the second law because I needed to be punished more severely. In the first law, I don't, I mean, in principle, it's acceptable to me. So I won't be against that law, and I'm not against any other law, I just think the sanctions should have been more severe, but for me it's a question, or these clinical centres, believe me, I won't even get into that story about why it wasn't done. It's a story of performers, subcontractors, corruption, inefficiency and so on. Please don't take my word for it. It's an old story. It's not your authority, it's a very old story. The essential question is, will we once do, look at other people's analyses of our health care system, and then draw some conclusions from that. We are also told that, on the Committee on Health and now it has been repeated that this Health Fund Act has been done with the consent of the relevant EU institutions. That's great, I commend it. But if we're already inclined to look at as a model to be our countries of a highly developed health care system that costs, of course, terrible resources that we can only dream of, why don't we look at some of their evaluations of our health system, some if I may say, hidden problems that we might be able to solve. I listed only one, the length of the patient's stay in a hospital that's longer than usual. It's a more efficient system than it is in Western Europe. So it's my opinion, I have to tell you, we're going to go to the elections again, that's what kills long-term projects like the revision project, and I'd say improvements in the health system. If you change the minister every year, you don't have to change it, but if everything stops, if it starts in a year, a year and a half, then you won't be able to accomplish any long-term project. Here it is right now, today when we talk, you see the problems that arise when you go to the elections every year. Then people start to deal with elections, election results, point out health success here. It's okay, you say everyone praise themselves if you don't want someone else to praise him. Okay, I don't mind, but then we see that long-term projects, that we have very little chance that once as it was, they had two authorities and two ministers had that chance, one was four or five years, as long as it was, so you have some chance of finally stopping, of course with a team of your associates, it's not one man, and then you change the health system in order to adjust it to our material condition. My appeal is at the very end, an appeal that the Ministry can't really be passive and can't be a Serbian doctor's group, and even the Medical Chamber can't be passive, as I would say, the aggression of charlatans in our public. Believe me, when I look at what I see in very influential tabloids and circulation shows, and that's okay, you can't forbid them, there's no censorship in Serbia, but that no one responds to them, that we have come into a situation that I personally think that we ourselves will endanger health. I'm talking to serious people who tell me to drink oil. They ask me so little insecure about what I think about it. Believe me, sometimes I look at people and I don't know what to say when someone asks me something like that, like it's the Middle Ages. So we have to sort of take some constant action, reacting to what I'd say, the flood of charlatans, I'm talking exclusively about health care that is talking about our health, and where they get one status in our public that they don't have, as I would say, in culturally developed countries, where he now sits across from specialists, some of our leading immunologists, virologists, and so on and he's totally self-confident with him, and it's like bringing a construction engineer who built a bridge and brought someone who built a cabin and now he explains how a 500-metre steel bridge is being built. No one would do that alive, but in health care. Well, people can't be on that passive. Believe me, I'm starting to think someone's doing it on purpose. It means he's deliberately letting charlatan products be sold. I get into small pharmacies, they offer me all the time, not these big ones, but these little ones, and I'm not against private pharmacies, they're working under the same conditions right now, but they're offering me some drugs that are never what I asked for, because they get a percentage of the sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25469	The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25470	I'm glad it exists, and that's what I've seen with you, the intention of solving things, if possible, to improve them. I hope, here, I'll try to explain it to everyone, and you'll understand, because you do psychology and that's it. First with our people when you start talking about health care, the second they tell you we've spent our whole lives in health care and we expect to have absolutely everything for free. They don't even get into how separate it is, is what happened to those funds, what happened, moving away from that assumption? So that's the serious majority in Serbia who thinks it should, that it has, that everything is free. The other thing, they have no picture at all, no idea how much it costs, they think. They don't have that picture, because no one ever explained to them, didn't give them a bill to pay, but didn't give them a report on how much it cost them to treat them while they were in the hospital, while they were in surgery, while they were being examined, while they were being treated and left, and they have no idea how much they couldn't cover their five-day hospital for the rest of their life. Now, you need to make a choice. You have this awareness in Serbia of the vast majority who think it belongs to them and deserve to have everything for free. On the other hand, you have what you said to invest between 220 and 260 euros per capita, each of the next countries goes over 1,000 euros, investing per capita. And what's going on here? And what's for that 1,000 euros? Just a mandatory insurance package. What does a mandatory insurance package mean? Twice a year, regular checks, blood counts, biochemistry, labs, ekg, ultrasounds, and possibly some more of that, and all over it is paid to 1,000 euros. And we want 250 to have everything. So, what he's saying, okay, we want to fix that system, not get into what it was, what it was, what it was, what it was now and what it was, let's get him. What's the prerequisite for fixing that system? We have two choices. What we're saying is, people, for 250 euros, you can only get that, you can't get one annual check-up. You have to pay for everything else. It's a reality. Can we all go out together? It's not about the opposition or anything. So that's one choice. The other choice is to make the most of the funds we have, not to steal a single penny, to do everything transparent, to increase as much as we can, to make it possible for people. What's this about? You also have a situation in all countries that increases the number of patients both from malignant diseases and cardiovascular diseases and from everything. You know that. What have we decided? We've decided on the other one. For what? We had a situation of many unemployed, small salaries and what would people pay after that extra insurance and where would they be treated and where would they come and who would they pay? What would they do? They'd create a system that works for whoever has the money, and whoever doesn't have the money, where will they go? Do we agree on that? And we're headed that way to work, to make sure we get the amount of money we have. What do we have to do to make it possible for people? First of all, you have to have a great information system and know at all times what you have, what you spend and how much you spend. Second thing, you need to know what service costs. No one will accept that we move on to that system. It is the famous “diards, ” where you pay for your service, not the flat-rate as you are now paying for it. You have no idea how much it cost when you went to the doctor, you have no idea, because it's paid flat-rate. We give you the number of beds, the number of patients, the yearly exams, here's all that. Until it's settled, there's no way to fix the system. To settle this, these are all the preconditions to amend these laws, to bring everything into line, and to get us into that situation so that we can control and get the maximum out of the system. I don't mind when we fix the system, when people get a job, when people get higher wages, to move on to what you're talking about as a form of compulsory insurance, when people will get paid, from some extra insurance, when they'll be able to pay for all that stuff. Tell me, is there any other system that you can go to the cyber knife tomorrow, or better yet, to go to the accelerators, to get all the therapy that exists and that's registered with us, to get it free of charge. It's reality. We can fight here as much as we want, but these are facts and this is reality. Which way do we want to go? We want to go in this direction to fix the system, to strengthen the state, to make more people work, to have bigger salaries so that we can get into that system with mandatory insurance, and until then, to get the maximum and to take care of everything that's been abandoned and hospitals and homes of health and equipment and people, to make up for, to have specialists, to have them perfected, to get foreign experts here, to prevent what's going on and what's going on and that we have more and more sick and to catch those people at the beginning to have a chance to survive. It doesn't mean anything to us when he comes to the stage when there's no cure. But you can't tell them there's no cure, or you're starting some therapy, and you know it can't help, you know you can just make it easier for him. That's the point and that's our dilemma. That's our theme. What we're doing today, this is just a prerequisite to get into a situation where we have a system, to be like that, that we can at any moment know where we are. Without it, there's nothing. That's the essence of the whole story.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25471	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25472	It would be a conversation essentially. I agree, and that would be a prerequisite, or should we say, at least work parallel to improving those laws that wait and have to at that point, simply detect weakness. I would just say, just this, our private health care system is growing, which shows that we have a social distribution in this country and it's simply a banal fact and health care is best showing. People who have money go to private doctors. The fact that these private doctors are very often people who work in institutions, and don't open the topic now, because we're going to that system, the Croats had a system and some other countries, that they can't work parallelly in both the state and private, it has advantages, but there are also great weaknesses, such a solution, and then some people will never come to the best doctors. Our private health care system is growing, which shows that a number of people are no longer satisfied or can't wait for rows or no conditions. Our decomposition here in health care and elsewhere, the poorer we are, the greater the decomposition, and that's clear. Now, I'm not going to open a new topic, it's for another conversation, how integrated is our private health care system and health system in general? I personally don't think he's well integrated and that's one big problem. What I'm essentially saying is, in our country, it's so poorly large, I know from my friends, specialists who work in private clinics this afternoon, that they do these reviews literally for 10, 15 or 20 euros per patient, which is a picture of the assets of a material society in general, where the average salary in Serbia is about 300 euros, and now they say it's slightly larger, it's average. This means that some people have 200 euros, 25,000 dinars and they can no longer pay, and at the same time, it is amazing to say anywhere in Europe that a specialist doctor is doing a 15-euro review. People in Italy, in a country, wouldn't believe their ears if that were possible. We've got one pauperization system. I'm not saying that health care, you can fight for a small percentage, no matter what percentage, you can't get a percentage, some percentage that you have from the budget more, and then the police will say, and we, the military will say, was in that situation and the radio. That's not the answer. The solution is to start this conversation with what is actually guaranteed to the patient. That's the essence of the whole story, what we offer him as an alternative and accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25473	Thanks, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25474	I'm sorry, I forgot I had two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25475	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25476	As far as the private system is concerned, there's no obstacle to integration, it just has to meet these conditions and these laws that we're implementing, so we know what it has to do to guarantee me patients who go there and that's the problem that they don't meet these things to get into this system. As far as vaccinations are concerned, I'll do it as soon as possible. Just a reminder, vaccinations are not a problem in Serbia alone. Vaccinations aren't a problem since yesterday. The antivaccinal lobby lasts for years and is spread across Europe, I think throughout the world. We didn't deliberately raise that question to the political question, but all the time, for months and weeks people who came out of the profession, who deal with it, so that it wouldn't come up in some wrong context if it were a policy, that someone was now rooting for someone to be vaccinated, for some reason to sell vaccines or anything. And we've come to the situation that we've come to. But not just us, the scope of vaccination has been dropping for years. Every year more and more, not just with us, but everywhere, and then we touched the epidemic and started with what we were going to do. So that's the essence of the story. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25477	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25478	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister with associates in the last hour I think we've gone far from the subject, although all of the topics are about health care and should be discussed in principle. For the second time in this session, you come with laws that are related to the health profession and the second time, you read your argument again. I don't have a problem with you reading again, I'm convinced it's a wish that in less time you really tell us more and I don't blame you. I resent you for reading quietly. You see, that the atmosphere here sometimes came up, and then the ones we want to hear, we can't hear what you've been reading, but if I understand, you've mostly read the explanation. So, the first law is the Law on Medical Resources, and it used to be the Law on Medical Devices and Medicinal Products, and now that I'm a member of the Assembly's Health and Family Board, I've had the opportunity to get an additional clarification from your associates on the Committee, where I've been given confidence on my objection, why, if we're not going to separate those two laws with one law and another, especially the Law on Medical Devices, and especially with the Drug Act, I've been assured that by the end of 2018, this should be done. I would say, based on what I've heard on both the Committee and these discussions, and my opinion and opinion of the Serbian Dvora movement is a fairly correct law, well done with very broad explanations about the effects that this law in our country's health system should produce, and I'm satisfied with that. However, when I started reading this argument, believe it or not, the first sentence immediately struck me, and that first sentence is – the basic reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with EU regulations and directives. So, Minister, no matter what I've seen here before and the Eurofanatics that have praised the law, I'm in a group of Eurosceptics. We do not need this EU law, this law needs the Republic of Serbia, and then it does not have to go to the first sentence and explain to us that the basic reason for the adoption of the law on compliance with EU rules is. The reason for the law is that this law needs citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as those who love and those who do not love the EU. Then I read on that explanation. It explains that this law meets market conditions both in the EU and that this can increase the potential interest of our producers towards competitiveness with EU countries. I'll be a little later when I further explain to confirm this thesis that at the first moment, no matter how much I want it to be, it looks like a list of good wishes, and I say earlier you were in your presentation or in a discussion with one of my colleagues mentioning that information about 60 producers, medical resources in Serbia, where after seven years or six years 30 of them have a C mark. So we're slow to make us competitive, but it's okay to agree with you, conditions are created that we can be competitive at one point. As far as the funds are concerned, we have interesting information that we have some 34 000 funds on our country's market, and that only 228 has no C sign, or that those who do not have a C sign mostly come from countries that are not from the EU and that really tells us that we are absolutely right when we want to comply with what the EU recommendations are, I repeat, no matter what I am against the EU, I am not against what is good from the EU. Unfortunately for me, but in the truth, the system of health care in many EU countries, and in many countries Europe is better developed than in a country in Serbia, we must surely follow that. In the register of our companies, and that's probably the reason that he disturbed someone earlier, because last week we had a discussion of a set of educational laws, where we were again giving huge space to the Chamber of Commerce, here and here mentioning the Chamber of Commerce, which is suddenly gaining importance, I think a very interesting organization and a litter of corruption of this country, but it's logical that it has to be in some way inserted into this story, because we have about 660 producers on Serbia's territory, and of which 660 producers are only 60 from Serbia, and 600 are representatives of producers that are not from Serbia. And then, again, we come to an item, where we should say there in an explanation that those funds used in veterinary medicine must, of course, be separated from these funds used in human medicine. Whether it's going to be the third law, which again, according to what I just said, the drug law, maybe it should go in a package with this, or if you're going to regulate it, that time will tell. Although it is clearly stated in the law that from the moment of adoption of this law, it begins to apply to medical means, those provisions that apply to medicines, are in force until the second law is passed. What benefits will this law bring us? We just heard a story, a number of clinical trials, and the possibility of healthcare professionals being their scientific achievements, and patients being more likely to apply modern innovative therapies. Of course, it shortens time to study from 95 days to 60 days, and it's all good. That's all I agree with, and the Serbian Dvori movement agrees, but then we come to a sentence saying better conditions will be created to increase sponsor interest. That's exactly what it says, that's what you were just explaining, I think that's what we're talking about. You've completely expressed the attitude that I absolutely agree with, their money, we can't determine them, make them or define where they're going to invest them, but that idea, which, well, I never had in mind, is a good idea. Let them choose to publish it to whom, when and how they gave it, or where they directed it, because with these sponsors, we often get into a situation where sometimes the requirements of pharmaceutical houses are carried out more in the protocols, than something that is to the benefit of the patient to whom the medication should be, whether the means of use, or what is appropriate to good medical practice, and what should be applied to make the patient most of it useful. Now, I think there's one shortage of this law. Reading the further explanation, I found that the entire control would only carry out seven inspectors, if I understood that correctly. Whether it's a number of seven people, and then, if we talk about it, there's going to be a discussion, I'm going to find out which side, the explanations, the writings, and even in one part, when it comes to financial effects, I'm going to define the funds for them, for the wages, and again I've found in two, three places to talk about seven inspectors. Is that a sufficient number of people? If I'm wrong, I'd like you to explain to me whether it's a larger number of people who are going to exercise control of all this. I was just talking about those good wishes. Why is it that out of 60 of our companies that produce medical supplies, 30 of them in that amount of time didn't get a C sign? Is that what something was done? Did this Chamber of Commerce, which is now going to be given some authority, try to, in a way, disrupt these people and these producers? What is good and what will surely bring about this law is to prevent the entry of non-quality and half-users of insecure resources. We just heard a story about the markets, that's the darkest part of the story we're selling drugs on, but you can buy the same drugs today in DM, in Lili and on all sides. I'm going back to those seven again. Is that the number of people who can carry out all these controls? The information that goes in favour of the fact that it's good that we've taken these trends that come from these countries of Europe is that of 95.7% of the funds with defects, it was mostly those with defects, which are not originating in EU countries. He bothered me, too, sometimes too much of the English language in all of this. I got an explanation from Mr. Secretary of State, who was on the board, that's how it should be done. I'm not sure about that. And then that so many English words, so much harmony with it, and that I tried not to be a villain, the malts at one point made me think if it was all written from somewhere. So we could've saved a little something that's originally ours. As far as the second law is concerned, it's a law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act, a law where only three points are actually changed. From that three point, this third one speaks of the moment when these things were changed in law. As far as the ISIS is concerned, the Serbian Dvori Movement, our view is that it is not the happiest solution. After all, a colleague of the DS who spoke, who in his practice worked much more in that system and with that system, cited a number of obstacles. The assurances I received from your members, so to speak, the Ministry of Health were that they were respected suggestions. In the end, you just showed us the document that the trustee was talking about. And are the measures of criminal policy, some colleagues just heard themselves, who said they weren't satisfied, whether they were small or not? Well, fines are scheduled from 50,000 to two million for a responsible institution, in this case the Institute of Public Health Batut, and for a responsible person from 30 to 150 thousand. Is this going to prevent any abuses of data that may occur, which we have witnessed both in this building and in that case that was in the papers and the extraction of some medical records about when it's who, is who and why it isn't, and if it hasn't gone to the military, they say that we have some cavities here. We believe that, as we have already changed these three members of the law, we have been able to work more seriously and use the situation to maybe change some members even more, to make it more possible for this law to work better in one way or another. Many doctors complain, there may be this story that difficult in the Serbian people everything that is new to come to life quickly, but simply, something has now been born, and doctors who do so have to rock it, come in with more or less trouble and into that system. The processing of data that will be grouped from smaller parts to larger ones is not clear on who they will serve and what they will serve for, yet someone who is a conspiracy theorists may think that the grouping of all these data in one place enables someone to access the data more easily. It won't have to run much left-right. And it's supposed to inform both patients and the Ministry and the Trustee is absolutely something that I support and should be. So the key issue in this second law is that in some way we have to come up with a fair implementation of it, that something we don't need to leak, really doesn't leak. Because the data, especially this data that is related to health, is something that is most sensitive and where abuses, if they are, can be the worst. The third law is the bill on confirming the financial contracts of the Clinical Center/C and in fact, I took it, studied it, read it, called people, and I realized that this C is actually phase three. This is about about 200 million credits, where the amount is now left to withdraw 50m euros. In 2006, 80 million were withdrawn, in 2008 70 million. I ask the question – where is the grandfather of the Emperor of Nemania treasure? Do you know, of course, you weren't the minister or the SNS government and this coalition were in power then, do you know where 150 million of those loans went? Are they well-directed, are they adequately exploited? If they're not, who's responsible? If there are those who are responsible, why are you in a position today to take charge of those who are responsible, and perhaps, perhaps, have not used those resources in the way they should be used, and for the general benefit of the world, you have done nothing? I'm perfectly clear on the dynamics, unlike some colleagues who have been saying that their dynamics are unclear, that it's going to be five tranches per ten million, that the grace period is four years, that after 25 years it starts paying off. I understand all that, but I didn't understand with all the hard work I've put in and with the consultations I've been doing, can you tell me, Mr. Minister, what is the interest on that loan? You said earlier that you didn't know it, that it could be double, that at one point we could use one interest rate or another interest rate. I've seen very clearly predicted dynamics, how long before it should be announced, after which time we withdraw funds, as we return, I've seen it all, but I haven't seen the amount of interest. Why do I care? Even though I am a representative of the opposition and although we do not think alike in many things, I do not think that whoever is in power in the country of Serbia does not want to host the country of Serbia. I'm not that bad, and the host is never happy when he's in charge, and he's even less happy if that debt might not be able to pay back, but it leaves him in an amannet to its children, because we're talking about a 25-year-old period. What's our duty as host of this house, as responsible states, is to tell us what this loan really is, what is that interest, how much we took, and how much are we going to pay back, and why would I end this discussion, make a parallel with the highway? I agree with you, Mr. Minister, that we need a freeway. That highway we're talking about and who we're talking about from Nis to Tirana, Drac and Valoni, it's NATO highway and it costs 800m euros, and the whole loan we're taking is 200m euros. We need the highway, but we need more of this people's health, and in that context, it's in the free perception of the MP and the freedom of speech of their found link between the amount of money for the highway and the loan. Maybe we need to build a foundation first, build walls. Let's deal with the health of this people who have been violated by all segments and in this you will always have support, regardless of our differences, of the Serbian Dvori movement. All that's good for the health system is something that we'll stand behind with all the powers, however much they are. We're in danger of health than that highway. That was the parallel, 800 million and 50 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25479	Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with Articles 27 and 87 of the 2nd and 3nd, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. Now I'm going to give the word to Minister Lonchar to answer and we're interrupting the debate until the usual 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25480	If it's not a problem, I asked and asked for the same question, and now I'm going to tell you exactly how much money has been spent so far, and what clinical center of what you've led to has been withdrawn. For the Clinical Centre of Serbia, 3.8m euros have been spent so far, the Nis Clinical Centre 30.3m euros, the Vojvodina Clinical Centre 1.3m euros and the Kragujevac Clinical Centre 0.5m euros. That's the data from today. This is the only one that's been spent. The interest is paid only on spent money. The interest is determined on the day you start to withdraw, you spend money. What we have an agreement with the European Bank, interest cannot be greater than 1.5% at any moment. The only thing you can negotiate is, I'm rebuilding, I'm negotiating a finance ministry that understands better, whether you're deciding at that point on fixed interest, or whether you're opting for some sort of sliding interest. It's your only option at this point. As long as I'm in this place, I'll bet you know every penny where he went. Ask, if I don't have the information right now, you'll have it in a few hours. I think that's the only way we can establish a system and correct all the things that need to be corrected, make up for the shortcomings they have, if we can figure out where every penny went, because that's the only guarantee that we can make the most of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25481	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour and continue at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing today's work. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25483	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, respected ministers with their associates, the Socialist Movement Parliamentary Group, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, will support these three laws, which you are proposing, because, simply, when it comes to the Bill of Confirmation of the Financial Treaty, relating to the Clinical Centre, it is clear that the capacities necessary for the provision of health services must be expanded. It would be very good if we weren't the state that was on the verge of bankruptcy in 2012 and that we could finance large projects from our own resources. I guess we'll be able to provide it soon and create conditions for such a thing, so we won't be able to get the resources that are necessary in this way so that the citizens and the standards that are being set up, when it comes to treatment, can be adequately and realised. When it comes to the draft law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act, this amendment and the amendment is quite clear and it was necessary, completes this law, circles it in general and allows for one application of the law, in a way that needs Serbian citizens. The most interesting thing in any case is the proposal for a law on medical means, as a new legal project. It is a bit unusual in our practice here that in this way a legal proposal is submitted, but I absolutely support that you did not wait for a period of time to create conditions that part of the old law, from which practically this new law sets out the treatment when it comes to the medical means to the end, will leave the part to be regulated when it comes to pharmaceutical services, i.e. medicines, is good because we do not have time to wait. It would be nicer if both laws were in the process, but obviously there are very important reasons for this law to be passed now, because it has matured its adoption and the need for its adoption, and we expect that we will soon have the opportunity to have the rest, so to speak, which will remain in application, be clearer and will not result in any papazianism in practice. There are very clearly limited procedures, rights, responsibilities, obligations, so that some of the comments that have been made here are absolutely not standing. What's important in this new medical law is just the introduction of a very clear and precise standardisation procedure. Standardisation is important to me, not because of the European Union or anything, and I trust you, or anyone in this hall in particular, but primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, because, unless there are no standards, then there is really a very high risk of coming to the market or getting to medical institutions something that is not within the scope of standards that would have to be at least minimum, if not above minimum, that someone else prescribes or imagines. I hope and I am sure that, from some previous experiences, "C" standards will certainly have some of their own degrees and above what they prescribe, demand and recommend European standards, because we have had the opportunity in earlier practice, in previous laws, that some of the solutions that some of our laws in their practice and application were above the standards of both the European Union and many other countries, so it is not the most important rapper of the European Union from that segment. The European Union is the market in which we can and most of all make the traffic, as well as the greatest co-operation, and it is clear that this kind of procedure that you have clearly separated, when it comes to the authority of the Agency, and the reduction of obligations, when it comes to inspection, where the inspection retains authorisation tasks only for low-risk medical means, is something that needs to create two positions. The first position is to reduce the deadlines in which standardisation is to be carried out, and the second is that an inspection that is very important is to prevent and prevent unquality and unstandardized medical resources, both in the market and in the health institutions of the Republic of Serbia, from carrying out that part of the job and being relieved in that part. It is good that this will not require new costs when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because, as I understand it, the agency itself already has sufficient capacity, both professional and technical, to make this part of the work quickly and efficiently, in accordance with these deadlines prescribed by this law, complete in time. All of this can be done by someone who is more concerned with the economy to analyse how much impact it will have in the perspective, we will have the opportunity to analyse and how much this will affect the development of production capacities, interest, to open new spaces in Serbia, new markets, but, I say, the most important thing is to protect what our patients, what our fellow citizens, what, in the end, we can expect when it comes to the quality of medical resources. In addition to these efforts that are in the legislative part, because medicine is not legislation but the obvious effort has been, I think that this law is very good and technically done, it will be very simple and for the application, clear, understandable, does not require too many sublegal acts for its realisation, is an effort that seems to be health care in this situation, with these resources that we have as a state, being as broad as possible and more accessible to a large number of citizens. For that reason, I really must commend the last solutions that are related to electronic recipes, because that is a very pragmatic solution. We have reduced the crowds in our health homes, we will relieve doctors of general practice that they have much more time to devote themselves to patients and that simply that part of the procedure that may have even taken 30% of the working time to doctors, and also to the citizens was a problem of making appointments and going to the institution itself for paper recipes, let's cut to what is most necessary. In addition, I have already said on some earlier occasions, I think only the Ministry should work even more to expand the services and bring those services into line with the Military Medical Academy. I really think that despite everything this country has suffered in recent decades, VMA has remained an institution of an extremely high standard. It is necessary to preserve all personnel who are also on VMA, but also in all other health institutions and to give them the opportunity to work with their work and creativity on the welfare of all citizens. I understand that it is very difficult to determine where and when and where the coverage is from the budget of certain types of aid, payments, where the state will provide some aid, whether it is a percentage of 30%, 60%, 20%, I see that there have been significant shifts in the last few years in the way that an increasing number of citizens have the possibility that the cost of the state of their problems, when it comes to medical means and treatment, are realised in a much simpler and better way. Raising the economy will create other conditions. What's very significant is that there is a much greater number of outings abroad, for treatment, where there are no capacities or conditions for providing adequate treatment for patients. It is commendable and I believe that everything that goes in that direction so that we and the patients who cannot be treated here and those who suffer from atypical diseases that are not here to this extent represented, to create the conditions that our right, human right to treatment, to achieve the cost of this state, to the maximum extent, to what extent we are allowed, and to strive for it to be as widespread as possible of the rights and possibilities of all citizens. We know that this is not going easy, sometimes when it comes to health, there is no patience, but the foundation of this Ministry and the Government in the last five years shows that it will surely feel strong progress in the coming period, much more serious progress than it has even been in this period than it has been in relation to the period until 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25484	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a law before us, from which content, I cannot see why it is brought today. We were supposed to discuss the overall Public Health Act. That law is in the announcement, as far as I know in the public debate. He would have a large number of objections to him, of course, but to go from parallel laws to the main one, instead of passing the main law, so that it goes according to the codification principle that this main law is comprehensive that we do not need any accompanying law, if they need accompanying instructions, it is passed by the minister's regulation, and that is quite enough. Smart people who create modern legal order are handled by the principle of codification. The lesser the law, the better the state. Those people who run the EU are not smart at all, because they already have more than 15,000 different legal units. Not legal members, but legal general acts. Okay, some don't call the law of general acts. Why are they doing this? Because they are under great red tape there, which is growing stronger and stronger and the EU is turning into a monstrous bureaucratic formation, and our health ministry is following the EU. Even in a cynical way, it explains that the adoption of this law will foster economic growth, encourage the employment of professionals, etc. Where will these professional people be hired? In the state bureaucracy. You're strengthening the state bureaucracy. It's not a clinical center job, or it's not an exaggeration of clinical employment. It's hiring in a bureaucratic machine. We had a unique drug and medical code, which has been changed on several occasions, and now you're separating the Medical Agents Act, so we're going to have two laws in perspective, we're passing a new drug law. Is that right, that's what you're planning? Because that law can't stay on medical medications when you call this one a medical law. What exactly are you doing here? If there is now a unique Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, you create conditions to separate it into two agencies or possibly another third to introduce, if not already introduced, as regards medicines and medical remedies from veterinary medicine. This fashionable calling of the government's or the bodies of the departments to the agencies, it's the Dosmanlian madness that you continue. What does the agency mean? The Agency is made up of agents and agents. It's not in the spirit of our language for this to be an agency. This should be the administration, the Department of Health for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the Department of Health for Clinical Centres, the Department of Health for this. The ministry is the highest authority of the administration in a particular area, and it should have sub-organizations of the administration, and you create agencies, where the head of the agency has a higher salary than the minister. Why is that? Because it is understood that the minister has other sources of income, known and unknown, I do not now specify, and here the staff, in a magical way, are employed on huge wages. The minister of traffic has a salary of less than 1,000 euros, and the director of flight control has a salary of 10, 12 000 euros, if not increased. You're making an organized mess in the country. Anything about health should first be covered by one law and one ministry, and this ministry should have the internal authorities of the administration at the highest, in the middle, at the lower level. And make the employee reward system unique. You promised, when you formed your first government, that you would introduce paying classes, of course, that promise was nothing. You here, as I said, adapt to the EU, are encouraged by the reasons behind and you make promises that are completely inappropriate. There's no reason for the state to brag about how it finance the treatment of our citizens abroad. There were so many failed treatments that we could buy for that money to equip our centres for the treatment of rare diseases. We have medical experts who are at the world level, at the highest level and who find work with ease, when they get to their throats anywhere in the world. We give hundreds of thousands of euros, millions, for treatment abroad. Come on, for the treatment of little children, that man can emotionally warn, but for the treatment of adults, it's nonsense, because you sacrifice so much money that you don't have to cure people from any more banal diseases. The ministry didn't do anything on that plan to be an initiator for criminal measures to be applied to those who were acting against vaccination. I've found myself in a situation where I'm attacking some of these main actors, trying to get arrested, etc. We didn't hear that word from the Ministry until there was an outbreak of little goddesses. Nobody sprayed and said – it's spreading false news and harassing the public, or that it's an organized spread of panic states. That's why you go to jail. A wide range of legal norms existed from criminal to criminal. Now we have an epidemic of little goddesses. Now we're funny people, now we're funny people, now we're a funny country, and now you're the funniest ministry for it. That's what you're supposed to do. Next, you expect here to thoroughly regulate relations in some area of society, and then you propose amendments and additions to the law to achieve it. When you pass laws, then you have miniature changes to those previously adopted, which is about reckless approach, which says that some work of organizational character is of great importance to the people and the state is being detached. Now the ministry will boast, here's another law. In the end, the Assembly will also boast, that is, the leadership of the Assembly, how many laws have passed here, as through a flow water heater. There's a procedure here for law-making a typical flow water heater. We don't have anything concrete against the law. Furthermore, that exemption from medical resources from the single law, which I suspect opens up. Medicinal products, medical means, represent one continent in the healing process. It's no one in practice, is it, Professor? Giukicho, he can't separate. I appreciate you as an expert, but there are experts who aren't in radicals yet, and some think about whether to become. We're close. We're close, okay. I wish I had a minister like that in front of me here, not a technical assistant. Be careful, I'm serious. What? I'm going to Libya for the minister. In Libya. Smartly enough, Minister Loncar should have gone to Libya sooner. (Vladimir Djukic: He is my best student. He did, but he's still at the school level, Professor Djukic. (Zlatibor Loncar: Bojic. ) No, no, Bojic has a more significant function. Minister, Professor Milovan Bojic was returned to the post of director of the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases by the will of the employees and their petition. You tried to stop it, but you failed. At the government's vote, everyone in favour, except for that Zorana Mihajlovic who dared not even come to the vote so she wouldn't have to vote against. Don't mention Boyic, you're not even down to your knees. You're a technical assistant. There's no such thing as social science colleges. There's an assistant intern here, so when you're mastering an assistant, then a doctor, an extraordinary professor, then a professor. You're on a level below the assistant intern. It doesn't make sense, the ministry's expertise is compromised, that you are sitting here as a minister, and a respected professor of world rank, such as Professor Djukic, is to be your secretary of state. Look, this ruling party still has a lot of great experts in its ranks, from medical and other professions. I have to admit it, though I hate to admit it. Some were able to pick up chaos from our ranks, they couldn't do everything, but we would never come to the situation of the health minister being a technical assistant and regular Professor Djukic being the secretary of state. (Vladimir Djukic: Minister is a doctor of science, an excellent surgeon. Professor, don't defend him. Don't, it doesn't make sense. (Vladimir Djukic: I must, because he is my child, I must defend him. Your child? You could have brought all your children here and handed them over as ministers. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure! Marinika, you said yours the other day, now I'm gonna talk. They've had dominoes of that, too. It was a world-wide breakthrough, Bozidar Djelic was named minister, and brought Dejan Popovic to be his assistant. Radoslav Milojic: Arsic, what is this? What does this look like? ) This is a debate on the concrete law and personnel structure of the Ministry. (Radoslav Milojic): He can't be here... It can, of course, because of you, this collapse started, and now it's continuing, and you give the minister your shoulder to cry when the session is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25486	Comrade Seselj, please proceed after...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25487	I'm distracted by these. You can count that time for me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25488	It's their habit.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25489	Next, what's suspicious of me here? Why are these two things separated? I come from what threatens our health care the most today. We have powerful experts in the world voice. Isn't that right, Professor Djukic? No one can doubt that. We have a lot of medical centers that are very high-quality. There's a few buildings down there. We need to fix it and fix it. We also have a lot of top technical resources. Almost everything that was invented in modern medicine was supplied to us, because so far we had professors at the University of Health. Is that what happened? Regular professors who understood that. But we're threatened by the medical mafia in the area of public procurement, and that's where the main battles are being fought. One of the intensities of this law is that in the future we obtain medical supplies, and after that, medicine from Western companies, exclusively from Western companies. We could be much cheaper than Chinese, Indian or Brazilian. The highest world level today has China, India and Brazil, and everyone knows it. They produce generic drugs. Instead of these generic original drugs, we're competing to get all kinds of drugs from Western companies. It's the same with these medical supplies. I'm still wearing a cardiodefibrillator with a pacemaker, it looks nice on me, instead of an alarm clock. Look out, he's paid 35,000 euros! That's how much I cost the United Nations. If I had two or three thousand dollars at the top of my head in China. Isn't that right, Professor Djukic? (Vladimir Djukic: We have the most expensive. ) Please, let me tell you, they are all now being produced on the same level in the world. The only difference is that it's more expensive and cheaper. Instead of decisively moving towards the purchase of these cheaper ones, checked out, we have experts who are going to do the checking, these bastards from the EU are putting us in a position to buy the most expensive. Here in the old law we had 75 definitions from three areas, from the field of human medicine medicines, means of use in veterinary medicine and means of use in human medicine. That's three areas. We had 75 definitions, and now we only have 98 definitions in one area. In my unemployment, I sat down and counted. You can imagine how unemployed I am and how much I don't understand anything. In this case, we also have some obvious legal ignorance when it comes to making these laws. We have an article 26, the title of the chapter – called the body. Imagine, the title of the chapter in the law – called body. It is now said – the body for assessing compliance with the seat in the Republic of Serbia must be accredited, etc. What body? Is it a torax, an abdominal, what is it? It's a committee, a council or a commission. Named body? So, in your heads, it's not even matured in legal terms yet. There will, of course, be new employment in agencies, there will be new designated bodies whose names you will not know to specify, but you will hurry to appoint them. Instead of hiring young, excellent, finished medical students, to allow them to specialize speedily, to deploy them all over Serbia, from the most remote rural infirmary to the most important clinical centres, we will have hundreds of these appointed bodies. Public procurement is the biggest problem, because control is the weakest. Look, we had a case where the mob killed our defense minister because he stood up to powerful centres in the area of public procurement for the Military Academy. That murder hasn't been solved yet, but motives have been known since day one. One who would try to coerce in the sphere of public procurement, not only in your ministry, but in many other ministries, who knows what kind of impact to be found. Then you'd be on a less-resistance line. This is where a sacrificed man with knowledge and authority is to be found. A technical assistant can't have authority. Maybe he can go to Professor Djukic's because he has an emotional relationship with him. Maybe some seminar work had a bigger number of sides, so they could make those paper airplanes out of it, but if he'd had some great knowledge of it, I don't believe that he could have shown that knowledge. That is why it would be wise for the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, to submit a proposal for Professor Djukic to be a minister, and if any place of office is found as a doctor, Dr Loncara, to be found. I'm not for the loss of bread. I'm for the current Minister of Lonchar. I'm for things to be put in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25490	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25491	There's no need for you to worry about me losing my bread. Don't think about it at all. (Vojislav Seselj: You said you were going to Libya. You know why I said that. Okay, never mind. (Vojislav Seselj: Explain to me, please. Never mind. (Vojislav Seselj: This is most important to me. ) What is important for the citizens of Serbia, a series of things that are far from true and anything, which is to open any agencies, to open up some new jobs. It specifically says here that there is no extra cost on the budget in financial terms. Explaining something that's clear has no reason. What matters, and that's that all you've been trying to say is that you need to do it through these amendments to the law, it just happened. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25492	Based on what, Mr. Seselj? (Vojislav Seselj: Based on what the minister has spoken to me. He spoke to you, only answered that he was solving the problems of the law that you were talking about. (Vojislav Seselj: He told the lie. I didn't hear. Is it not true?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25493	He said the problems I was talking about are actually solved by this law, which is absolutely false. Secondly, he made some insinuation about Libya, and I insist that he declares what kind of insinuation it is. Does he tie me to Libya, except I was a big fan and I was president of Gaddafi, who I'd never met in my life, and I didn't go to Libya. What does he mean by that? As far as you're concerned, this democracy of applause. She was in theory processed, she was in theory processed when totalitarian systems were processed. That democracy of applause deprives you of the need to think. It's the easiest way to applaud. Look, primates who have never managed to become human have learned to applaud, to have chimpanzees, though gorillas drill into the chest, but in a serious debate there is no applause, here is a struggle of thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25494	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. If you haven't noticed, SNS MPs are called monkeys, chimpanzees. Minister Lončar was practically exposed to a single conjecture that he was some technical assistant, although I don't know what that is. I don't think calling it the Higher Education Act does exist, does it, Marco? I don't think you should have let anyone talk to Secretary Lonchar in this way, who's a top surgeon and who saved a lot of lives, working as a doctor on the most difficult cases. As far as knowledge goes, let Minister Loncar know more about medicine than anyone who's doctored on Marxism, Communism and fascism. Now they teach us lectures, they are on monkeys, they teach us lectures of people, Mr. Loncar, whose master's work is called – the Marxist concept of armed people, and the PhD – the political essence of militarism and fascism. Now Minister Loncar is incompetent, and he's capable. He understands everything. So, Mr. Arsic, you're holding a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is possible that someone's funny in this style of expression, but we are having a debate about important laws, laws that tomorrow, God forbid, if Serbian citizens need to save lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25496	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. I accept your remarks, I'll take care of it and thank you for the help you've given me. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25497	I protest, according to the Rules of Procedure, by article 27 and by article 32, which the chairman of the National Assembly allows Alexander Martinovic to conduct the session. He did so during my presentation, and then he cut you down with his remarks, supposed by the Rules of Procedure, and now you apologize in one way, instead of holding a session of the National Assembly with full integrity. I have shown that I understand the law that is before us, and Martinovic has no idea. He told a lie you didn't draw attention to. I didn't call any MPs here a monkey, I only gave one comparison by mocking the democracy of applause. Warning that way. No, I have people here with whom I'm even in friendly relationships one thing and I don't let them say it. I can't be in friendly relations with those who stole the mandates of the SRS, never, ever, hate them infinitely. If the death penalty was imposed, I'd give it to them first. But there are people here that I've met for the first time now, they weren't our members, and I can't possibly call them monkeys. Did you hear what I would do with these flyers?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25498	No personal address, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25499	Well, this is where I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25500	As you have obtained the right to the replica, you can see that I am in charge of the session, not my colleague Martinović...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25501	You've improved, I'm giving you a confession.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25502	... Or someone else. I sat down with my colleague, Martinovic, and he told me that maybe I was wrong, too, because we all have the right to make mistakes. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25503	Only God is sinless and I sometimes. Good thing you're not God.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25504	The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25505	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, health ministry associates, let's get back to the subject of these three laws that are being discussed today. The proposal for a medical law, although someone said it wasn't so important, I think that everything we do and move into healthcare is very important for our health system. This law regulates conditions for the production and transport of medical means, i.e. their placing on the market and use in the Republic of Serbia. Also, clinical trials of medical means, quality control, conformity assessment with technical requirements, advertising, medical marking and surveillance in this area, which is very important. This arrangement of the system achieves compliance with the professional and scientific standards, i.e. EU regulations in the field of medical resources. This also solves the problems of the existence of unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory medical resources in medical institutions removes the risk of unwanted effects on patients and medical professionals. Most of the products on our market meet EU standards whose quality assurance is that they are marked by a conformity mark, and only 0.6% of medical resources are not harmonised. In this sense, the obligation prescribed by this law will not significantly affect the majority of producers operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but it is important that in this way we eliminate these 6% of the medical resources that are now in medical institutions because tender conditions allow them to do so. Namely, everyone knows that the purchases of health institutions go through the tender, and that the largest number of points is actually the price of these products, which includes products that are less quality. That doesn't mean that we've been working with something that wasn't absolutely possible and it wasn't quality, but this way we're equating all those medical resources that are in the facilities. In order to protect the health system and patient health, this law also prescribes the obligation to bring all products in line with the prescribed standards in the Republic of Serbia or the EU, which proves the C mark assigned to the EU, because it is identical, harmonised standards. Which, of course, has the greatest meaning of this law, but it also brings some other positive effects. First of all, conditions are being created for domestic medical producers and their placement in EU countries, then the development of our country's economy opens up, which is also not negligible. Conditions are being created for increasing the number of clinical trials, thus achieving the development of medical sciences and the availability of new technologies, new funds and knowledge for medical workers. Modern innovative therapy will benefit our patients, and without the costs of the health system. And, of course, it corrects the discrepancies with other regulations, i.e. the Technical Requirements Act, for products and conformity assessment and as a roof law for all products. Namely, out of the 60 manufacturers who have a series of medical devices, 13 have no certified production, and 30 have no sign of the Health Ministry's Health Department's inspection data. It is, in effect, a sanitary material that is being used daily and thus makes all of this important. It's “in vitro” diagnostics, and that's what we're counting the resources we use in the calibration laboratories, control material, instruments, multiple-use instruments, diagnostic medical devices in radiology. And, to clarify a little bit, it happened that health institutions have blunt needles, firing syringes, and in this way there is a real need for this law to be found on the agenda and to prevent the entry into the market and use of certain non-quality and per-users of insecure medical means, while at the same time regulating conditions for the production and transport of medical resources. The proposed solution will lead to improvement for both citizens and patients and those using these medical means. The proposal for a law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the area of health is, in fact, an addition to something. The application of this law began on January 1st of this year, before the ISIS started its application, and this supplement will allow for the precise identification of the legal person responsible, which is the Public Health Office. In doing so, no additional financial resources are needed, as the Public Health Office has been collecting this data so far. In this way, these additions, fully comply with the rules governing data protection as well as the establishment of a system of responsibility, which is important in the event of a breach of security of personal data. This addition of the law also introduces the Office's duty to injure any damage to data security, Article 44(2). The Health Documentation Act, inform first of all the person to whom the infringement applies, then the Ministry and the Trustee of information of public importance and protection of personal data. Since it is an information health system that has started to apply, I am once on the Health and Family Committee, asking the Ministry's associate how it works, given that when you ask the directors and those involved, most of them all have a good one, and it is good, but I would kind of stress that we need to improve this system. It is realistic that a large number of patients cannot enter the system and, indeed, in some longer term cannot schedule the examination they need. Somehow, it seems that the appointment in the first few days of the month is possible, and everything else is filled out. It's probably a capacity problem, but I'm sure it's working to solve these problems. The draft law confirming the financial agreement of the Clinical Centre between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank is clear. The Financial Contract Clinical Centres was signed in July 2017, and the National Assembly confirms this international contract. Project reconstruction of four Clinical Centres with capacity expansion, upgrade, modernisation, whose total estimated value is 430m euros. Parliamentarians are also given insight into the distribution of funds and construction phases, as well as the area covered by the Project. Indeed, it is looking forward to the fact that it is working on rebuilding, building and modernising health centres, which is the subject of this law, but I must say that it is also looking forward to the fact that in the past few years it has been renovating health facilities throughout Serbia. It's just amazing that some objects haven't been restored for 30, 40 and 50 years. Thus, the municipality of Svilajnac took advantage of the opportunity to obtain, apply and receive money for the complete reconstruction of the “Svilajnac” House of Health, and were previously reconstructed and village infirmarys and thus shown to care for the rural population and health status of the entire municipality. I guess other municipalities work this way, too. It's a good thing we have top-of-the-line clinical centres, but I'd like to add and remind, in fact, or start this topic that in the Republic of Serbia we have 158 homes of health that are literally local concerns. In some municipalities, it is good, and in some municipalities it has not proved to be a good practice. To remind myself that primary health care is, in fact, the gate and protector of the fund and that the primary health care depends on the health system. Given the reduction in the transfer of local self-government, the question of how much they can participate in the purchase of new equipment, and the issue of pharmacy and debt of health homes that must be resolved as soon as possible, so that patients do not depend on private pharmacies and private services. The fact is that health care is not enough to isolate itself, but it seems to me that the biggest concern for those insurance companies who have been out there for 20, 30 years is for health care, and it happens that they get really sick when the scanner doesn't work, or when there's no appointment, and really within the general hospital, clinical centres there's mass and private pharmacies, where patients have to do it right now. I was particularly pleased, Mr. Minister, by one of your statements last week, where you say your goal is to further improve state health and defend it. Somehow it seems that the state's health really needs to defend itself in fact, the pillar of our society. I think that's the goal of all of us, because we also have to preserve the population that is old and that we have adequate health care. The very fact that we are losing 38,000 people annually suggests that health care must be available to all citizens. A good example is recently organised free checks on unsecured persons who have come across great approval and need, and this has proved to be true. The growth of chronic non-infectious diseases, we must recognise the poor standard requires more work to prevent, and the need for professional medical personnel is more than obvious. The status of a health care professional is not at an envious level, and that's something I think, and these days with vaccine affairs, he's getting his primate. Health issues are mainly corruption in health care, and it is forgotten that our health system survives for decades thanks to enthusiasm and doctors and our healthcare professionals. So taking all this into account the SPS parliamentary group will vote on these three laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25506	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25507	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, as SNS MP and chairman of the Health and Family Committee, may say that I am extremely proud, above all because we are able to gradually round up health legislation in all its segments. In fact, today we are talking and talking about the Law on Medical Welfare on Amendments to the Law on Medical Documentation and Records, and three, I would say, I would say, the laws of health and the Law on Health Insurance and Pharmacy have passed a public debate and this is a significant public debate, which is also a prerequisite for the quality of a law and fully prepared for entry into the assembly procedure. But to go back to the law I'm talking about today. So, the Law on Medical Resources, the law we are talking about today, is in full agreement with the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and with the Ministry of Economy and with the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia, and not only with them, so it is also agreed with the medical products producers with associations of medical devices producers, but also with many organisations, institutions, and individuals who had a desire to participate in drawing up the drafts. What is very important is that in this period, only mutual communication and reconciliation, there have been many suggestions and many objections. They applied, first of all, to standardisation. More specifically, to the acceptance of EU standards on both our territory and our producers. What is particularly important is that these solutions that are embedded in this bill can be guaranteed that our medical products producers will be able to place their products on all the markets of the world, not just Europe. It's one important thing about this law. So this law definitely creates appropriate preconditions and for the progress of the economy in our country, which would say that one of the very, very significant moments is related to these legal solutions. During the discussion of the Law on Medical Resources on the Committee on Health and Family, the importance of adapting our legislation to the legislation of developed countries and EU legislation is mentioned. No doubt the significance is great. And for the first time, we have a medical law that will definitely regulate this area. Earlier, as we know, this area was regulated through the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, but in a much less detailed way, in a much more precise way and in a way that you will see later in my presentation was not adequate. However, this is not just about the mere harmonisation of legislation with the legislation of developed countries. The key thing is to adopt all those legal solutions that have proved to be quality and good in developed countries, and on the other hand these legal solutions are applicable to us. I am, by my own profession and by my vocality, therefore, urologist, surgeon and I do operations, engaged in the placement of the installation material, among other things, and in my clinical practice I also encountered the installation material, really high quality, but unfortunately also one that does not meet medical standards. Why is that? Well, because our country's market remained open to those medical assets that couldn't be sold and placed on other markets. Because, also, one reason, because this factor was the price factor of a medical asset, not the quality and its characteristics, a factor that was decisive in the procurement of that medical asset. Now, that won't happen in the next period. It is precisely this law that regulates this area by establishing control of all the characteristics of the medical means, so that the patient does not happen to have a problem due to inadequate installation material. This will no longer be possible, because there will be a medical standard that will define this law, and the state, or the Ministry of Health and the Agency for Medicinal Products will give it. Also, what's very important, and it's about this law, is that it greatly reduces the ability of counterfeit medical resources to enter our market. Why would it be like that? Well, because anyone who places a medical agent on our market will have to have a declaration of conformity, with our technical characteristics prescribed by the state, after that, the inspection surveillance stage, which determines first the originality of the document itself, and on the other hand determines the credibility of the data itself that is on it and the characteristics of the medical means. In this way, we will definitely have a cleaner market, a market that will be freed from various medical forgeries, more specifically forgeries, in this case, medical means. Lack is a significant change in this law, as far as clinical trials are concerned. In this law, it is precisely defined to reduce deadlines and to shorten their registration procedure, which in many ways, in my opinion, but also by many other experts, will increase the number of these clinical trials of medical means. What's that got to do with us? It brings us first of all, not only an increase in paper, I'm talking about a clinical trial, but it also carries a greater possibility of innovative therapy, a greater possibility, to say finding many medical resources, which will definitely bring benefits to the patient, because all this is about, that we understand respected colleagues and respected citizens, because of patients, because of people who need medical attention. What is very important is that, as far as deadlines are concerned, in which the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices makes a decision, that deadline is reduced to up to 60 days. The deadline for the decision of the Ethics Committee is also reduced from 60 days to 40 days and that is up to 40 days, or 60 days for ALIMS. These are more than reasonable deadlines, and that is something that will definitely solve certain bureaucratic problems. In addition, there is one thing, which may be the most important for bureaucracy, which is the registration of the register of ALIMS, becomes administrative procedure, not a condition for transport. It's one fact, one moment defined by law, and definitely again in this bureaucratic sense it will significantly shorten the procedure. Not to mention, as far as the Medical Devices Act is concerned, I'm going to say something else about the Health Documentation and Records Act. First of all, as far as these additions are concerned, i.e. the amendment of the medical documentation and records law, they can only say that it is a matter of harmonising this law with regulations that enforcing the area of data protection. With the creation of a single information system, i.e. an integrated health information system or ISIS, we have come to the situation that there is one intensive collection, processing and depositing, so storage, different personal data in health institutions. Of course, this law needs to determine the titler, to determine the responsible person, and what is even more important, there are also criminal provisions. But what is even more important, and the citizens may not know, is that in 2014, when we adopted this law, I am talking about the Law on Medical Documentation and Records, there were no objections by the Commissioners for Protection against public importance. Today, this law changes exactly to his initiative. So, the Ministry of Health definitely cannot be responsible for these members of the laws that we are changing today, which are proposed as a supplement, were then not an integral part of the law. What is also important and what I would like to say, and today I have heard from certain authorised representatives of the parties, is that this law in this form and in this way defined and special, I am not now talking about the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Means, I am talking about the Law on Medical Means as a special law, it should have been passed before, and I absolutely welcome it because we define medical means by special law. Doctors, and especially doctors dealing with in-house material, now I also potential that dimension, in particular, know why the definition of certain members of this law is significant for them, so that any discussion of whether this law, or whether this matter should be regulated by the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, should definitely not exist. Generally, at the end of my presentation, I'm going to say that the law in general is very good, that the area it defines is simply, hopefully, and I'm confident and precisely because of the content of the law that I've read in detail, I think it will regulate in detail, and I think this area will work out in the right way, and I think that we as doctors, first of all, and our patients will have the most special benefit of all that. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25508	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25509	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the laws we are discussing today are extremely important and necessary for the citizens of Serbia. They seem to be very well prepared, because we have seen that the opposition does not have any major criticism of the proposed solutions, which are covered by the Law on Medical Resources and the Law on Supplements to the Health Documentation and Records in the field of health, which is good and commendable. We Members of the Bosniak Democratic Community of Sandzak, any law that facilitates and increases the quality of life of citizens, are considered very important. In particular, it is important that their positive solutions make it easier for citizens outside Belgrade, in less developed regions, where there are still no clinical centres, and where it is difficult to provide health care for citizens, because according to statistics of the Institute for Health Protection, Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut, the mortality rate in Serbia has increased by 45% in the previous 26 years, most of which is the disease of the system of blood streams and malignant tumors, precisely those diseases for which treatment requires long and very expensive therapy that is often not available to all citizens, especially those in the interior and patients are very often prisoners of the mixed and pharmaceutical mafia. That is why we believe that the regulation of these areas will make it easier for citizens, especially those outside Belgrade, who are trying to reach quality doctors and adequate therapy, and we need quality, because if I am right, by the number of hospital beds per 100,000 residents from 565, where we are 14 in Europe, in front of as many as 15 EU countries and it is undeniable that we have an elementary quantity, but we need quality, i.e. a number of specialists in all areas and, of course, a balanced distribution of resources. For example, the Sandzak region, from which I come, encounters these very problems. The administrative distribution of the region, the population of Raška and Sjenica, which naturally engraving Novi Pazar and nearby, say Raška-Novi Pazar are 20 kilometers away, Raška-Kraljevo 50, or Sjenica-Novi Pazar 50, and Sjenica-Užice 110km, according to decades of guidance, family connection and tradition, refer to treatment in Kralje and Užice, although yet most citizens of these cities find their way to get treatment at the General Hospital and Home of Health Novi Pazar, while health funds for them are being paid to the King and Užica. Thus, within the framework of this health care facility, more than 200 thousand inhabitants, with no more than 450 hospital beds, and should have at least a thousand and slightly more than 200 doctors, and should have at least 400, which causes natural overload and long lines in front of hospitals and offices. That's why the proposals for these laws are extremely important, necessary, especially for these health institutions and citizens, like this one in Novi Pazar, because right now, for example, an orthopedic in this hospital for five working days, there are 60 exams and 15 to 20 more emergencies, although that number should not exceed 45, or should have a weekly of two to four operations, and there should be less interventions during injuries, fractures, cuts and similar averages from 15 to 20. It is therefore important to develop the health system evenly. We hope that Novi Pazar will receive a clinical centre in the future, especially as it engravings a large number of citizens, and thanks to the UAE donations and investments by the Serbian government are slowly being obtained for such a thing. I use the opportunity, distinguished ministers, to appeal to you to provide a number of specializations for doctors from this community and to ensure the conditions for hiring new staff, especially since we had cases that, for example, individual graduates of medical schools must seek employment outside the profession, as was the case with Dr Jasmina Tahirovic from Sjenica a few years ago, who had to be hired in a bakery, or with departures from young doctors, which is still a more frequent case today. We believe these laws will make it easier for patients, and especially for us, I repeat again, outside the Belgrade region. That is why we are voting for them and we hope that the Government and the Ministry will have a sensitivity to make additional efforts to improve the overall health system in all parts of the country. These are concrete steps forward, with which we expect other health laws to improve the overall picture of citizens' health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25510	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25511	European law on SNS. What does that mean? That means it's a bad translation, with a lot of mistakes. It can be fixed. There are amendments to that. I hope some technical editorial will lead to it being fixed. But also making small holes in that law, or large holes, that will allow this law to be just like European laws, and in fact without being implemented in the same way. Let's say, there's this famous, here's everyone already talking about it as if they knew, a C-certificate or a tag. In the law, as I have read, the Agency for Medicinal Products, the Serbian, needs to verify that certificate and that some medical means, which already has that certificate, should be re-entered in our agency and that it is 40 or 60 days. Why? Why do we have to check something that some EU institution has found is good for the EU market, some Denmark, some Sweden, select another country? Why does it have to be checked by our agency, and why must there be such a long deadline for it? If we already have conditions to check, and the conditions would be some good lab or institution, I don't think we have that. It's complicated procedure, the law is too long, complicated, contradictory. Domestic producers pay large taxes to verify their production, which is detimulative for domestic production. I'm afraid this law will have the same effect as the great genius procedures we've had in the past few years in the field of medicine and health care, which is, say, this appointment of a specialist's examination or a general practice doctor. It's pure fiasco. It's been going on for years, come on, I'm exaggerating, but for months, and people are justly unsatisfactory. We have a contract and this law on these funds for clinical centres, so my question is the minister – who designed that wall at the Clinical Centre in Nis, which is now about to collapse, in order to enter the scanner? I'm sure it's not the director of the clinic center in Nis, or anyone from Nis, but it's someone from the Ministry. The wall collapses to get the scanner in, they say. I don't know that scanners are growing lately, usually smaller. What's the progress in the Clinical Centre of Belgrade, except that we have on that flag building and the shining commercials as if it's New Year's Eve, and it's still not yet, and if citizens, ministers, know and know why it's still four or five floors empty in that building, as it's been empty for the last 30 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25512	The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25513	Just so there's no ambiguity, the check is done with this certificate if it's original. So he's just checking to see if he's original. Zoran Zivkovic throws. No, 30 days, it's a technical matter. By 30 days, it ends early, because it simply has to be protected by our citizens, our patients, it's something we do everywhere. You're checking, you're not just checking to see if it's the original. Did the original come here? It's something that's consistent with everything, and it's what everyone does when they're in that procedure. What else did you say? Who designed Nis? Nis was designed six or seven years ago, the Italians designed it, "Inso" is called the Italian company that designed it, so you have to ask them, and I think they will definitely, down there, when you are in Nis, ask them what they say about that wall. Was there anything else? (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25514	You have no right to a replica, colleague Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25515	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, hate hurts health. So that would be some saying that should be available to my fellow farmer. I understand the rage of my fellow farmer. He's like a doctor of veterinary science, veterinary medicine, though a little self-taught, so, that calling and knowledge he acquired by singing chickens in that village of Pokovce next to Nis. So he's probably disappointed that in this law, medical supplies from veterinary medicine are no longer covered. So, there's no more yogurt solution to put in the syringe, so you're going to fake chicken plow around Nis, if you're allowed to come to Nis. Number two, he's also known by the laws where he asks ministers and MPs to go to the doctor's office. I ask you, my colleagues from the ruling majority, to pass that law and we all go to the doctor's office. He's not gonna make it. Zoran Djindjic took ministers for a doctor's examination, two failed, but he was not in the doctor's exam. The same government, Zoran Djindjic, was re-elected in the same composition, only the prime minister was my farmer's new face. Instead of going over it, he didn't do it, and today he advises everyone else to undergo a review and I'm resolved, as far as I'm concerned, and I'm just one of the MPs, to let him do it. Ludi, he already showed up for a medical examination in Nis in 1978. That is what Mr. Martinovic best said and read that the medical examination cannot pass. (Alexander Martinovic: Replica. All right. Excuse me, colleague Martinovic, I misread you. When it comes to funds, he was on the coalition list of the former regime's party -- loans. The emergency center in Novi Sad, Mr. Minister, was it supposed to cost 15 million, and it cost 40. If it wasn't for that robbery by the break of the former regime... The emergency center was run by Vesna Pitiæ Bolidovski. Is that something you're familiar with? That sounds familiar to me. Instead of 15 million, 40 million, most likely with Bojan Pajtic. Dragan Draskovic, who was placed in that place, had the same gate at his house, as was the gate at the emergency center. That Acai Diagonal when he was working, then a little bit at my house, then diagonally at the clinical center, or the emergency center. Mr. Minister, equipment, how many walls have been torn down in Stonestone 2? It was supposed to be over in 2009. It was supposed to cost 8.5 million, it had all the infrastructure, water, electricity, it was expansion. Stone 2 cost 30 million. The people were waiting there, speaking of medical supplies, from four to six months, is that right, Mr. Minister, for radiation. Three or four public procurements wanted to push through with a price higher and three times what it cost LINAK. Since public procurement fell, people were dying. It was waiting in line, so come if you don't die, from four to six months. It was only with changes in Vojvodina in 2016 that it began to work, along with a lot of repairs, Kamenica 2. Is Dragan Draskovic, whom they say his aunt is a public prosecutor, is it true, Mr. Minister, that there are 108 public procurements without a financial plan and a public procurement plan worth billions of dinars? Reports are missing. It was their model, and today we hear how they honor us, and we need to know that it's more important than the rule of state to build a state, and this government does, and that's why I'm going to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25516	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25517	We are today discussing very important laws, as regards health care, the Law on Medical Resources, as well as the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health. The medical law has begun to comply with EU rules. Taking into account EU regulations and the practice of Member States, the separation of regulations governing medical resources has been implemented from the rules governing medicinal products. The provisions of this law apply to medicinal products for human use, i.e. general medical means, i.e. all instruments, appliances, devices and products applied to humans, whether used on their own or in combination. In vitro diagnostic medical agents include reagents, reagenas products, control and calibration material, reagenas kits, instruments, apparatus, equipment or systems used alone or in combination for use in in vitro conditions for sample testing. Active implantable medical devices, i.e. products whose operation depends on the power source or any energy source. This law lays down conditions for the production and transport of medical means, i.e. their placing on the market and use in the Republic of Serbia. Clinical studies of the medical means of vigilant, quality control and market monitoring, assessment of the consistency of medical means with technical requirements, advertising, marking of medical resources and supervision in this area, as well as other issues of relevance to medical means. So, by adopting this law, we are absolutely establishing legal frameworks to monitor the safety of medical means, i.e. the vigillance of medical means, which is actually a set of activities relating to the detection, collection, assessment, understanding and response to new knowledge of the risks arising from the use or use of medical means, and in particular its harmful actions, interactions with other substances or products, then contraindications, abuses, reduced action, malfunctions, technical failures, and in order to improve and protect the health and safety of patients. The proposed solutions will affect economic operators: producers, authorised representatives of medical professionals, persons carrying out traffic on large, imports-exports, supply, storage and distribution and retail traffic. pharmacies and specialized shops, bodies for the assessment of conformity, health system and patients, i.e. users of medical resources, as well as the Agency and the competent inspection of the Ministry of Health. The provisions of this law will affect domestic producers, i.e. authorised representatives of foreign medical professionals, which obliges them to comply with quality standards. This law prevents the entry of non-quality and per-users of insecure medical resources, both on the market and into health institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Quality control, i.e. the safety of medical resources, will be carried out by the manufacturer himself, as well as the bodies appointed for the assessment of compliance in the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the European technical requirements achieved. In this way, the safety control of the medical agent is achieved before placing it on the market. It is very important to pass a medical law, as this introduces a fundamental control of the safety of the medical agent through various types of tests and control procedures both from the manufacturer and from the designated body in relation to the current, mainly, documentary control. Disabling the market for poor quality medical means, i.e. raising the quality standards of these products, as well as creating conditions for their placing on the EU market, encourages the development of new businesses and competition. As for the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health, I must say, since I am from Kosovo and Metohija, that this law once again tells all the mentalists about Kosovo and Metohija who often speak, not to say what, to understand that this bill of health is complete under the authority of the Republic of Serbia, because we have an information system that is in the system of the complete Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia. During the adoption of this law, which took effect on the first day of 2017, the state took into account the fact that there was an intensive development of health and information technologies in the previous period and that the need to regulate health documentation and records in a unique way. The majority of the changes are to apply modern technologies and techniques in the public health system in order to create preconditions for health documentation and records to be kept in a unique manner and to apply EU standards. The essential provision of this law is to define three basic groups of health records and records: medical documentation and records on the provision of health services and the health status of the patient and the population, health records and records for the monitoring of risk and environmental factors, as well as health documentation and records on personnel, equipment, space, medicines and medical resources and information-communication technologies. Medical documentation provides doctors and other healthcare professionals with patient treatment planning, as well as monitoring his medical condition over time, then the continuity of healthcare and communication between doctors and other healthcare professionals involved in the treatment process, accurate and timely data checking requirements including data on payment, adequate data assessment and evaluation of healthcare by health authorities, as well as a set of data useful for researching education and health statistics. The medical documentation contains information relating to individual health care, which is complex in several different groups of personal, clinical, etc., I would not further list. Electronic health documentation is in fact an electronic version of the synthesis of all data from the medical records, the history of patients’ disease who during time run the service providers, and may include basic administrative clinical data relevant to the patient. Obligations of health institutions in the field of reporting in the Republic of Serbia to collect periodic reports, as well as individual reports, provide institutions, i.e. public health institutes, for the territory of their jurisdiction. All data and reports from the institutions provide the Institute of Public Health of Serbia "Batut", as a reference institution, according to plans and instructions for the delivery of the report, and "Batut" is linked to various RFZO information systems, then to the Republic Health Statistics Institute of the Ministry of Health. In this way, it is possible to do a full analysis of the health status of the population in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and of any other type of analysis necessary for the resolution ministries. The application of the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health has led to the conclusion that there are certain needs for supplementing it in Articles 44 and 56. These laws once again showed that Serbian health care is run by real people, professional and organisational, headed by Minister Zlatibor Loncar and his team. You should be a proud minister for your work so far, because you've proven and the people know who does and what they do, and they can talk whoever they want. Here some opposition colleagues, I mean doctors, criticized these laws. I only ask them one question - where was health care during their reign? I'll give them an answer. In the ambis, not in the break-in, in the ambis. The question arises why the minister was reading the report. There's nothing else he didn't say without reading. I'll tell you, there's a tax-delivered data where there's no man who's a digitron to remember numbers and numbers. By coming to power of the SNS, with our President Aleksandra Vukic, the Ministry of Health cares about the EU list with its index, so I can tell you that health today is stepping on the place that belongs to him for his knowledge and expertise in Europe. That's why SNS and I, as its member, are going to vote with full satisfaction today for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25518	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. He's not here. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25519	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before us we have three very important laws in the field of health care, the Law on Health Documentation and Records and a very important law of the financial contract, i.e. the confirmation of contracts between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia. The JS parliamentary group in the voting day will certainly support all three of these laws. Serbian citizens should know that in general, the Ministry of Health and the area of health has never achieved more results than in the previous period. I will commend the work of the Ministry of Health and current Minister Loncar, as JS headed by our President Dragan Markovic Palm has so far supported all previous laws in the field of health. Also, by following the work of our Assembly Health Committee, given that our family is a great priority, we should also commend our committee's work on the lead with a respected colleague, Darko Laketić, and all colleagues who are on this committee, since they are men of the profession. A great deal of importance is being given to the profession, so these laws that are before us are indeed one of the laws that have already been decided. We can say with the right that all MPs, and I see that opposition MPs should also support these laws, which means that Serbia and health care are on the right track. Of course we can't measure with the West, but I hope our medical workers, our doctors, as well as our patients, will be able to see the future in our country. In the previous period, more than 1,000 doctors were employed only in this recent period, but over 5,000 medical profession workers and doctors were also sent to specialize and subspecies. It's very important, especially for those of us who come from smaller municipalities where there's a big problem when, say, one doctor retires or one doctor goes into another environment, when we're left without a doctor for some long time, that we always have a medical staff ready. Also, when it comes to homes of health besides these clinical centres, where it is truly commendable, it shows one stability of Serbia that after a longer period of time when this contract is, let me say that it was in some status quo, when perhaps ten years later, for the first time these clinical centres of Serbia, where we have a new facility in Nis, but we have a reconstruction of existing facilities in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac. All this is commendable and all goes for the fact that a large number of doctors, and the fact is, because you're all here from the doctor's profession, of course also State Secretary Meko Memutovic and him to commend, I followed his work and everything he put on the board in general. So, the medical profession can't wait, and this will be significant for a large number of doctors to get a job. There are also 158 homes of health with hospitals in Serbia. We also have to take care of these local health homes, especially emergency services, to have, again, in these smaller environments we have a big problem, because there are some environments and an insufficient number of doctors in these emergency services, or there are insufficient numbers of ambulances, so we have to take care of these local self-governments, that there are always a sufficient number of medical workers and that patients get to meet, because patients' health, the health of the nation must be first. Now that we're talking about this second law, which is the Law on Health Documentation and Records. It's already actually in practice existing, let me say, was sublaw or following the law. Now we have one complete regulation of this legislative regulation, where one smaller database will be transferred to a larger database and you have defined the Batut Institute as a body that will store that data, and a very important fact that we have personal data protection. When it comes to smaller homes of health, my esteemed colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, praised the city of Jagodina as an example of good practice in addition to 158 health homes. I would like all the homes of health in cities and municipalities to follow this example. We have a third law, it's a law on confirming a financial contract. The importance of these capital investments should be welcomed. The health ministry in that direction has made serious moves towards better. In this sense, it is very important that doctors have a place to work, that patients have a place to heal and that by building these new facilities and hospitals they will get the conditions that our patients, especially when it comes to difficult patients, and they come from very remote environments, when they come over 250-300 kilometers, that they also have the opportunity through these electronic databases to schedule their checks in advance, because so far it has been a very alarming fact that they are traveling 200, 300 kilometers away and that they will arrive in line for a review or an appointment. Also, in these newly built reconstructed facilities, the possibility of receiving a large number of medical personnel is reopened, but this credit also speaks in favour of the fact that Serbia is leading to a major stability and shows stability and particularly progress in the field of health. Finally, I will also say that the JS parliamentary group will definitely support all three of these draft laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25520	The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25521	Dear President, colleagues and citizens of Serbia, I will begin my presentation by discussing the bill on health documentation and records in the field of health care. The addition of this law concerns only changes within several members, and to the most extent, changes related to an integrated health information system that Serbian citizens know as ISIS. The MP group has had enough for a reason, and I will state afterwards and in an explanation why, for a reason, we do not agree at all with the existence of such a united database as ISIS. In fact, the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection on several occasions pointed to a problem with this united database. The public even received the following information, so at one point the Ministry of Health noted that the Public Information Commissioner agreed with the Bill of Law. But what is a problem when this law was adopted is that the fully trusted information of public importance was not informed, that in fact ISIS already works and that it works, which it was subsequently informed about. As he actually learned about the existence of this database and the possibility of abuse of this base, it comes from citizens' complaints. So we remember that in public it was even known that citizens could enter this base and schedule themselves different checks or shootings, indicating that the system itself was not safe enough. In the world, practice is such that the existence of such bases is not practiced unless there are reasonable reasons for this. In Serbia, unfortunately, all the arguments that have come to us from the Ministry of Health tell us in this direction that there is no legal basis, or there is no clear enough explanation why we have such a large united database. I think the citizens of Serbia should know, among other things, what smaller bases are building this big central base. Therefore, it is a health statistical system, the information system of health insurance organisations and the information system of a health institution of private practice and other legal persons. If we're thinking about what a potential problem this base might be, we need to look back at what kind of problems we've had so far. We've also had situations in the tide here when citizens' data is being misused, their data is being publicly reported, the data that is in the medical records. So we also had a code so-called. foreign investors also have a problem when they are practically handed over health records of potential workers. It's not something that doesn't happen in practice, it's simply a high tolerance to the security of data from Serbian citizens. Abuse is at a high level and is present on a daily basis. So we're kind of used to everything that's not normal, in fact it's become normal in the meantime. For me, maybe one bigger problem, and it's not just about this law, it's about disrespecting independent institutions. We had yesterday or the day before yesterday, I'll agree with you, my days got a little mixed up because of this session, the resignation of the director of an independent institution, which is the Anti-Corruption Agency. Then, we have an absolutely degraded independent institution of the Protectors of Citizens. The last in a number of independent institutions, which are doing their job properly, is the institution of the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Meaning and Personality Data. So I do urge that recommendations, which come from independent institutions, are not ignored by the ministry. So it's not enough to just supplement this law with the particulars the Commissioner was talking about, but we have to fully apply his recommendations. The Commissioner for Public Information issued a statement yesterday. So again, he says that his recommendations were not consistently applied, but that only certain parts had been applied. With this in mind, we really feel that we should return to the beginning of work, simply, what has been adopted so far, has not been adopted well enough, and I think that as a Parliament, or you as a Ministry of Health, we should advocate that his recommendations be adopted, and that we withdraw this law from the procedure, in order to prepare a new supplement that will be better. I'd still like to talk about the agreement to confirm the financial agreement. We are today discussing the third part of the loan already raised by Serbia. It is a project of modernisation, promotion and expansion of four clinical centres in Serbia, which are clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis. The estimated value of this project is around 430m euros, as you said in your initial presentation. However, I think it is important to note and what is the structure of the funding source. So it is financing by the government of the Republic of Serbia of 165.8m euros, European Commission funding of 38.6m euros, World Bank 15.6m euros, bilateral donors 10m euros and a European Investment Bank loan of 200m euros. We're discussing that last part of the loan today. So, Serbian citizens were in charge in 2006 for the first 80m euros in December, and then in December 2008, we owed the citizens an additional 70m euros, then we had one big break and in July this year we additionally owed the citizens 50m euros. But it's not just about these funds, this project is not just about these assets that have been mentioned and that you announced at the beginning of your presentation, that 430 million. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, including last year, for the budget of the Ministry of Health, sets out still some resources, so in the budget for last year under the programme for the development of health institutions' infrastructure for programme activities, i.e. the Project of Coordination, Control and Control of the reconstruction of clinical centres, it is planned to allocate just over 103 million dinars. So it's not just these 430. In this project, we also have some additional funds to be allocated. Why do I mention this? Because I don't think that this loan alone today in the debate can be seen individually, but we need to look back at the whole project that's being discussed. And why does it matter, why do we have to look back? Because Serbian citizens need to know where each cent is spent in millions of projects, as is this project. When the current prime minister, Vukic, and the current president of the state, called the government, spoke of the mysteriously missing billion euros, I don't know how to tell you, but it can't disappear a billion euros, and it can't be known what 430m were spent on, or what 430m euros would be spent on, plus certain funds allocated in the budget each year. You know what a million euros is? For a million euros, you can buy free textbooks for the next hundred years, you can make two of these projects and still have the money left. The transparency itself in the distribution of funds, regardless of whether it is the billions of euros spent or this concrete project, simply the citizens of Serbia do not know how these funds have been spent. I would now ask you – how much has been invested in the adaptation of four clinical centres by sources of funding, which I initially cited? And what percentages were planned? Also, it would not be bad for the Assembly to present a spending plan, as stated in the contract, especially given the provision that Serbia would have to provide funding for increased costs, without the help of the bank. We have in mind, and that is what you said in your opening statement, that extended deadlines for construction and adaptation, so I ask you about this: did the extension of this deadline cause an increase in interest-based costs? That's not what you were talking about, and it wouldn't be bad to say. Why was “Enough Was ” so interested in transparency? I'll give you just one example, and it concerns specifically the Nish Clinical Center. We have one tender organised for the Nis Clinical Centre, which is worth 18m euros. For that tender you still don't know why the deadline was extended for a month? There is even some public story that you personally insisted that this deadline be extended, so that certain competitors for this tender are prepared. In the end, it turns out that this firm essentially won this tender. What the tender looked like were also complained by the other two companies that also participated in the tender, so the republican Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures in April of this year annulled the tender. The ministry denied this cancellation and continued co-operation with the Chinese company. And the tender was essentially annulled for procedural reasons – because there was no well-organised public procurement plan, while the appeal of the tender, as it was written, to prevent competition from competing, was not even considered at all. There's one totally unnecessary manipulation in phases. It is not just transparency at the level of the funds spent on the name of this project, so the non-transparency is at different levels, among other things, in the phases at which it is located. I'll quote President Vukic's statement from July this year, when he said, "I think we've done a good job, with an inadmissible delay of a few months, but, you know, only three years ago, when I was here, I think at this very time, there was a meadow and nothing more." Even you repeated that sentence when you had the opening statement. You probably liked it so much that it used to be a meadow. The people of Nisa know that there was more than just meadows there at the time. The papers were started at the time of the term of office of some other ministers, before your term of office. That's the problem. It is not a problem intransparency in the phases of this project only during your term of office, the problem is also in some other previous governments. Someone mentioned earlier, perhaps a colleague of Vesovic, I can't remember, but he mentioned that the project itself was not good. A little while ago, you gave one explanation, but it does tell a lot about the transparency of this project itself, which really has no small value – 430 million has no small value to allow such a gap today to break down a wall to enter a device, a scanner or whatever it is. So it's not just a matter of non-transparent spending, the problem is that these funds are being spent, the problem is that there's a reasonable doubt that tenders are being set up and the problem is that we don't know at what stage of construction is currently clinical centres. But they're all deadlines, apparently, broken. Once again, I'm going to ask you to answer the following questions -- how much has been invested in the adaptation of four clinical centres by sources of funding that were initially mentioned? What percentages were planned? Can the Assembly be presented with a spending plan? Did the extension of the deadline result in an increase in interest-based costs? I'm going to ask you to look back at this tender I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25522	The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25523	Unfortunately, everything you said is contradictory and it doesn't make any sense. If there's transparency somewhere, if there's anything for every penny, you've got it at the Ministry of Health. Tell me what money or euro you didn't find where it was spent, how it was spent, what was paid and what was left? You talk so casually and repeat five times the same thing, which has nothing to do with the brain. Say it specifically -- the potter, that and that dinar, we don't see where it is, or it's spent on this, you paid for this more, you paid for this less and more. You've mixed up the credit funds, you've mixed up the funds from the budget, you've mixed everything up alive. And, again, if you're not and you're not okay, no problem, you just have to specify what kind of money you don't know about, what part of it you're asking about, where it's paid, what it's paid for, without getting an answer. Did you ask a question? What is used on today by those funds, which have been withdrawn. Did you ask that? Yes, it is. Of all the funds, here's what's been spent, Serbia's Clinical Centre 3.8m euros, Nis Clinical Centre 30.3m euros, Vojvodina Clinical Centre 1.3m euros, Kragujevac Clinical Centre 0.5m euros. Here's to today, as far as... (Tatjana Macura: Is it credit or total? About the loan, what are you asking? (Tatyana Macura: I asked about the whole project. You have to ask the question so you know how to split it, it means what you're asking for a loan. Take it easy, don't get upset, there's no reason, really. Here, I'm talking about a loan that's been spent. Then you asked for interest. How much we've paid interest to break deadlines for this, too. You know very well that we have nothing to do with breaking deadlines, or anything like that, what, ever since that went down, what's been going on. But something that suits you, you talk, something that doesn't suit you doesn't talk, and it doesn't matter. Interests are paid from the moment you started realising that money, specifically this money I just read to you. Then, interest is just being paid, until then you have no interest and you pay nothing. I repeat for the fifth time, what are the interest rates? The day you activated this money, which I read to you, by the clinical centres, the interest you choose, can't be more than 1.5%. It can't be more than 1.5%. The only thing he can choose from the Ministry of Finance is whether he's going to take a fixed interest, or he's going to take some slip interest, but to fit into this, an estimate of the people in the finance that he's dealing with. Did we just clear that up about interest? That there were no extras or anything. So we're talking about facts, interest, loss and all. The second thing, since the state implemented the measures it implemented, is that money was created in the state budget, the state register. From that money, we bought from the budget equipment for the Clinical Center in Nis. So, not out of credit, we owe no one anything, we bought it from the budget. All right, we bought a gamma knife from the budget, we bought a cyber, or better edge from the budget, so we bought these things from the budget. We bought from the budget four accelerators with accompanying equipment and facilities for Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Kladovo. From the World Bank, we've bought six more accelerators with accompanying equipment, including the key in our hands. It's separate stuff. Your flat-rates, no tender will ever fit you. According to you, probably none should end, or anything, you don't have anything in particular. You say it was a complaint, because that tender was not announced in January of the month. Yeah, you're right. It wasn't announced, we didn't know what the dynamics would be, and we didn't know in January what they would be like, or not in January, but when we were building a budget in December or November of the previous year, we didn't know what the situation would be like in the budget, whether we would have the funds to buy the equipment. Sorry, we were wrong, we weren't sure we'd have enough money, thank God we had the money and we bought it. We don't have a problem. For every penny you're interested in, come ask, you'll get everything in writing, that's what I stand for. No money can be hidden in the Ministry of Health, for every penny come and ask, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25524	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25525	I thank you, Chairman, Mr. Arsic. I am reporting for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the Assembly has been injured, because the previous colleague was telling the alternative truth, not to use the word of the Wolf in the Volk dictionary – he is lying. What's this about? I had an impression, as I came from the city of Nis, I am obliged to answer her when it comes to the Nis Clinical Center, and I hope that my colleagues will support me in the spirit of what I'm talking about right now. I had the impression that there was an MP across the street enough was, Mr. Boskovic, however, I don't see him at all, so he might have taken part in the discussion about the Nis Clinical Centre. Not knowing where the Clinical Center is in Nis, I can take her to show her where this magnificent object was started, let me tell you, 35 years ago, and this power, SNS with Mr. President Alexander Vukic and the Prime Minister, will we finish when? We'll finish him up safely. So, a 430 million figure, so I can recommend that she calculate how many textbooks or laptops might be bought with that number. Once again, when you talk about Nis, you need to know where this Clinical Center is, to come see this magnificent building, that it is a typical spaceship that will be the most beautiful not in Serbia but in the Balkans. Therefore, we will banish this project to its end. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25526	Mr. Rancic, you've used a violation of the Rules of Procedure so that two minutes from the time of the MP's group. Replica, Tatiana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25527	Thank you, Chairman. So, I don't have any problem. I think you've come into confusion, and I've given you all the levels, where the funds for this project come from. You listed only what was spent on credit, and I would like to, and I think the citizens of Serbia would like to know what all 430m euros were spent on. You can't tell me no matter what you do now. So you can't tell me that I'm coming to you to check that information. We need you to deliver the information we're looking for here. It's not about any respect for the congregation, which my colleague just pointed to. It is simply one relationship between the legislative and executive authorities. It's just that we need you to bring in that information so we can check it out. What we have in front of you now, we can discuss. You can't expect me to be the MPs or the citizens of Serbia to come to your feet personally to check out some of the allegations you've been talking about. I can't question them, but it's simple, a little impertinent of you to answer me that way and say, come to me. Simply, you're expected to give us all the necessary information. As far as this tender is concerned, I understand that it is the budget funds, and I have been saying during my presentation about it, that it is not only for this project that certain funds are in those funds as I have counted them, but that they come from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We simply don't have, we get the controversial information from the statements of the representatives of the authorities that they give to the media. That's not how it works. We need to know clearly where the funds are displayed, especially when this debate is at stake. This project is not only what is mentioned in it, therefore, it is not just about this loan that we need to discuss today, it is a far larger project that obviously has more resources than it is intended for. So maybe I wouldn't have brought it up if there was some kind of abuse if I had all the data, and since I didn't have to ask myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25528	Thank you, colleagues. The word has a minister, Zlatibor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25529	I've read you how much money has been spent to this day. Here, I'll read it again. But you're talking about 430 million euros. They're neither withdrawn nor realised, nor paid interest, nor anything. You want me to tell you now about something that's been spent and where it's been and what it's spent on when it's not. I repeat, Serbia's Clinical Centre 3.8m euros, Nis Clinical Centre 30.3m euros, Vojvodina Clinical Centre 1.3m euros, Kragujevac Clinical Centre 0.5m euros. That's the only one spent on that loan, and that's the only interest below 1.5%. The rest of what you're talking about, it's not spent, it's not realized, it's not done. So, don't make a mistake, I think you're really serious, that you understand so much, we can't talk about 430 million that aren't either withdrawn or spent or anything. I'm telling you about what's been spent, this plus from the budget I told you. And, I told you, again, you said that, a procedural mistake, yes, I apologize, in November of the previous year we couldn't assume how much equipment there would be that we could get out of the budget, that we wouldn't be able to go into some new borrowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25530	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure National MP Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25531	I point out the violation of Rule 107, paragraph 1, the first speaker at the National Assembly session is required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. As Minister Loncar spoke, which I thanked him for, and as he answered my questions, whether I was satisfied with them or not, but he simply respected me as a national MP, we had one throw by Professor. Atlagic, who I think entered the minutes, so I would ask you to be the chairman, to make sure that the dignity of this assembly is respected, or that speakers who participate in the debate are respected. It is truly inappropriate for a university professor to speak to a folk MP whom the people have chosen - she has no idea what she's talking about, do you think she knows what she's talking about? We really should, you heard that, that's what I heard here, and I believe you heard that at your table, so I'd ask you to take further care of what the debate in the House of the National Assembly looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25532	Comrade Macura, I haven't heard from my colleague, but I would ask you to also respect the dignity of the National Assembly during your discussion, which I didn't want to interrupt. The Commissioner of public importance does not have the right to influence the legislative process in the Assembly. What are you talking about? I'm talking about your discussion. I didn't intervene at the time, now I'm intervened. According to the Rules of Procedure Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25533	Mr. Chairman, in addition to answering the People's Parliament that what she has now done should not have been done, I think it was the basis for us to apply the measure concerning her parliamentary group, and the measure refers to taking some time to debate when abuse of the right to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. From what I understand, that's exactly what happened here for a moment. So, I think it's totally unacceptable that what we're doing here, we're playing with whose last one is going to be. To a perfectly correct, serious response from the minister, that someone gave himself the right to raise the Rules of Procedure and accuse the MP of throwing something away, well, no one was talking to the lady here at all. There's no one on our side. Whether we think it's understood or listened, it's a special story. No one spoke to the lady. This was used just to make someone, what, a little longer on the transmission. I think it is totally unacceptable for us to be respected in this respect, and this is where a parliamentary group was called by the name and last name of our MP, but a complete parliamentary group, for misbehaving and throwing. Mr. Chairman, we all know very well here that it is absolutely unacceptable that these words are addressed to us and that these things are mentioned to us by a representative of a parliamentary group who, unfortunately, is badly known, precisely on the subject of inadequate address to colleagues, precisely on the subject of unacceptable behaviour and in the House of the National Assembly. It doesn't occur to me that I have these things they've given themselves the right to say again. But you all remember that famous "go away" etc. Who did this, who said that? If they weren't just representatives of the famous parliamentary groups who were able to approach a colleague as he spoke, to get into his face, to spit on another MP, to mention, what? And, look, it allows itself a lady, a "reproductive organ", in a dirty way. Come on, please. So if we're going to do these things right, we're going to take care of everyone's behavior, and that includes what you're going to charge others with and which finger you're going to point at. If they're not ashamed, we are because of them, and we react. Thank you. (Tatjana Macura: How are you not ashamed? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25534	You're bringing an end to your colleague Orlic, as I understand it, the problem is that he didn't say anything, and he should have. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25535	Thank you, President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, today I will remain in my presentation at the Proposal for a Law on Medical Resources and I will probably repeat myself in the discussion with you Mr. Minister and with my colleagues from the SNS Parliament Club, but I believe that this is necessary for the sake of the public, for the sake of the citizens, since there is a great interest in today's agenda points. The new medical law is the alignment and alignment of our legislation with EU legislation and for the general medical means used in human medicine, for active implantable medical means as well as for "in vitro" medical means. What I would like to point out is that our experts, doctors, engineers and consultants have been involved in the drafting of this law with business, manufacturers and distributors, as well as with all other interested parties. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Health held a public debate on the draft medical law, which lasted from 8 to 28 December 2016, that the public debate was attended by representatives of state authorities, public services, economic operators, professional public and all interested participants, so that this bill was supported by all present. Also, the Ministry of Health also published the draft law on its website so that the bill was available to all relevant entities for suggestions, initiatives and comments. Afterwards, you considered all these suggestions, comments and a large majority of them were incorporated into this bill, and one part of the proposal was left for sublegal acts, which will be adopted after the implementation of this law. I would also like to point out that this bill has been praised by the European Commission and is one of the comprehensive laws of general purpose, which must exist within the developed and advanced social system of a modern and orderly state. Why are we talking today about medical means, and why do we need this law? I'll speak through the prism of a doctor with a long-term job experience. In fact, accelerated technological development and modern medical resources represent the necessary factor for effective health worldwide, which is, of course, our case. It is unimaginable to have health institutions without adequate medical resources, especially those modern ones. Health institutions and private practice, not only cannot be established without adequate medical resources, but they have as an imperative to use state-of-the-art medical resources when performing medical activities. Medical resources are one of the key segments of progress in modern medicine. They are used daily by health institutions and health care professionals and benefits from medical means is directly tied and indivisible from the possibility of these means to cause and damage to the human body in extreme cases, to be also the cause of loss of human life, unless they are adequate quality, i.e. if they are unskilled and insecure, they are forgeries. So, this law provides for increased quality control of a medical tool that is already in traffic predicting vigillance, i.e. monitoring of undesirable effects by medical means. This will be done by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, 1 and the Ministry. In this way, we will prevent the entry of counterfeit medical resources into our country's market. What further will this law allow for our domestic producers? They will be in the same position as foreign producers. Mr. Minister, I've had a chance to speak to a couple of distributors in Nis, and I'm going to give them their impressions about this law. So far, the domestic producer has been in a more unfavourable position, because, for example, his. The disinfectant was registered as medically, it had to provide a lot of evidence that was expensive, and the procedure for issuing these evidence was long. This law allows the domestic producer to receive the mark C as well as the foreign one. During the previous period, foreign producers with C marking were registering - fast and easy and domestic without marking C - long and expensive. By the way, our producers didn't go abroad. However, the new law makes domestic product competitive for exports. For all these reasons, the law was accepted and highly commended by distributors with whom I had the opportunity to speak in Nis. They welcome the formation of the body to receive the C sign. Namely, it is about forming designated bodies to assess compliance with the prescribed technical requirements for the product, meaning quality control, on which a certificate is issued, and the product marks a Serbian sign of consistency. All of the above, as you said, as well as my colleagues from the SNS, will have a favourable impact on the economy and economy of our country, new investments will be encouraged, the development of the medical resources industry, all of which is one chain that pulls one after another, means employment and the development of the economy. You told ALIMS that enrolment in the Registrar becomes an administrative procedure, it is so precise in the law, not a condition for traffic, and as far as clinical trials are concerned, which makes me particularly happy, it is envisaged to cut deadlines, simplify procedures, introduce centralisation, that is to say, giving an opinion to the Ethics Committee of Serbia, and in this way we will have a greater number of clinical trials in the Republic of Serbia, of course, which contributes to the development of medical science, to healthcare professionals such as ourselves, scientists, the latest achievements in the field of medicine will be available, and patients will have modern innovative therapies, to repeat, at no cost to our country's health system. And finally, to recapture, every serious state, I include both our country and ours, the health problem of its citizens is pushing the priority scale very high and it takes a number of steps both to prevent disease and to adequately treat patients themselves, which is what the Ministry of Health is headed for, it does every day. That is exactly the reason and all of this forward for the adoption of this law, which aims to achieve in the field of medicine, which has already been applied somewhere, and which have produced good results, is also being applied in our country. As a doctor with long-term work experience within my profession, I know that apart from the practical knowledge that the doctor has, often of crucial importance and medical equipment, i.e. The medical means that the same doctor has at his disposal. In this regard, the proposed legislative solutions will allow us to have quality and safe medical means through certain standardisations, but we must not lose sight or positive effects, which will also reflect the value of our businesses' business. Through this law, we bring together a number of parameters with EU legislation and thus enable our medical producers to perform on a much larger market. Accordingly, in the voting day, I will support all three draft laws, and I also appeal to all MPs from all MPs to support these bill proposals for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25536	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25537	Thank you. I'm surprised the system's working now, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Serbian citizens, ministers with associates, have several key points in this law, as well as several key points in health care in our country. You SNS are unable to implement even those good laws in practice. With this law, you owe the country to Serbia, dear citizens, the SNS hereby tasks the country of Serbia to add 100m euros. The Serbian Progressive Party has so far charged the country with 10 billion euros. For years and years, we will pay back the debts, ignorance and riding the SNS. The other day, you'll let me tell an anecdote, because I have a grandmother who's 80 years old, that is. 83, I came home from work and she asked me – son, where can I learn German? I was surprised why a 83-year-old woman would learn German. She told me - I went to the hospital to check myself out, there all the doctors speak German. Is that some new law? I had to explain to her that it wasn't a new law, that all doctors were learning German to run away with their heads, regardless of their authority, their boast and their corrupt SNS authorities. That's what you brought health care down to in Serbia. I don't know why you're nervous, gentlemen of the government, but you shouldn't laugh at waiting lists for two years. Today someone who schedules a review should wait for that review for up to two years. In which country is it and is it normal? I don't know why you're so nervous, probably because you know you've ruined this country yourself, that your pockets are getting fuller and fuller, while citizens are getting poorer and poorer. Dear President, Minister Loncar said on 18.05.2017 – work on the new building KC Nis is late today. They were supposed to be finished on March 27th. This is nothing compared to Belgrade's completion on the water two years ago, so it is not, and that patients are waiting for the individual's ride and the combination they're making. That's what the minister said, I quote. And, he said -- it will certainly be all those involved in being late and stealing money from Serbian citizens. If the minister has not known for six years, the SNS and its tycoons have been stealing money from Serbian citizens and it is nothing new for the haughty and corrupt SNS authorities for the past six years. I'd have whatever caste she says, but I'm sorry I don't have more time, and I recommend you resign as soon as you can and save this Serbia, and probably all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25538	And nothing about the law, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25539	How about nothing on the law? I understand they can't do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25540	I followed everything, I didn't understand everything, but fine. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic: Can I repeat? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25541	No need, I think the citizens of Serbia have heard everything, seen everything well, and that they... (Radoslav Milojic): How did you steal Serbia for six years of your authority? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25542	You don't throw it away, no one throws it to you. Let the minister answer, it's elemental order, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25543	Don't just be nervous, it affects a lot of things. There's no reason to be nervous. So, dear citizens of Serbia, you have had the opportunity to hear and see everything, any comment would be excessive.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25544	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go. He wasn't talking to you, he was talking to the citizens of Serbia. [[Radoslav Milojic: Can I get a replica?]] (Radoslav Milojic: He spoke to me. He told me not to be nervous. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25545	Your Honor, may I begin? These screams unarticulated, please calm down. Dear President, Mr. Minister with Associates, I'm glad Mr. Health Minister, Mr. Loncaru, to have you back among us. We've taught you to stay here more often, which you've proven for the last three, four years, and that speaks of your work, the work of your ministry. And these laws go into order to modernise our health, which is an integral part of Serbia's modernisation, because before this modernisation, the previous former government has reduced health care to the lowest possible extent in Serbia's history. I'll bring up some information tonight, Madam President, and you know I never give up any false information. In modernising Serbia, we continue, for which you, most of the MPs of the position, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, are selflessly in favour, not only of it, but of it. We heard here tonight that this government didn't do anything in health care, in the field of health care, and that it's the worst. Mr. Minister, I'm just coming to the head of the Ministry and the head of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but in 2015, this information, I'm asking the opposition, and it's about this law that I'm being denied. The Republic of Serbia took 30th place on the list of 35 European countries in just a year, Mr. Minister, during your ministry and Mr. Vukic's presidency, have we moved five places for the better? Behind us were Bulgaria, right, opposition gentlemen Albania, Poland, Montenegro and Romania? Of these five countries, three EU members, are they true, gentlemen of the opposition, and today all day long you claim to be the other way around? In 2016, we achieved even greater results. From the 30th place in 2015, we made it to 24th place, so for six more places. We have seven EU member states left behind: Romania, Bulgaria, Poland, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and Greece. Is it true, gentlemen of the opposition? If you have any morals, and I say you do, stand up and tell me if this is true or not. This proposal, for the sake of truth and today's untrue data all day long, which the opposition gentlemen presented, this bill, gentlemen Members of Parliament, provides for the separation of regulations governing medical resources from regulations governing medicines. Also, medical medicines for veterinary and human medicine will be particularly regulated. What's important, we've heard the affairs, that the opposition's representatives are talking about affairs. Mr. Minister, Madam President, respected citizens of Serbia, since Mr. Loncar is the health minister, no affair has happened. Let the gentlemen say so. Please, don't make those faces. That's not worthy of a man. Now, I'm going to take out a cytostatic affair about the law and have them deny me whether it's true or not. Cytostatics were bought as at the market during the former regime's party. In advance, it was known how much money would be spent on cytostatics, and then patients were sought out to whom medications would be given. Dr Dragana Jovanovic left the commission during their cytostatic procurement regime. Is it true, gentlemen of the opposition, or not? Stand up and deny it. At that time, cytostatics worth 24m euros were purchased, with no tender and no public advertising. Is it true, gentlemen of the opposition? Stand up and tell me whether or not she is. (Zoran Krasic: Come on, get up. You, sir, are in adulthood. I think we should be a little bit more polite. In order to avoid a tender, the Republic Health Institute, during them, called for a letter from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices treated by this law. That's how you gentlemen spent your time in the former regime. However, this bill does not apply, which is very important, respected citizens, to medicines, to cosmetic products, to human blood, to blood products, to plasma, to cells of human origin, then to cells of animal origin, and to medical means for use exclusively in veterinary medicine. Speaking of affairs, ten affairs that have shaken the Republic of Serbia and reduced health care to the lowest possible extent, I said one. The second, the hearse of the undertaker and the emergency physician, lasted the entire time of the former regime's party. The price of the death report was 300 euros. That's what the Anti-Corruption Agency said. Emergency doctors deliberately let patients die to take a 300-euro commission from mortuary private businesses. It's an affair, gentlemen and respected citizens, and I'm talking to you, so-called. the affair of trafficking in the deceased. The opposition gentlemen remember very well. The vaccine affair is on the agenda, you see, against the flu, 2009 and 2010. In 2009, Serbia took 855,000 doses of vaccines and the rest up to 3,000,000 during the former regime's party, as ordered, was cancelled. Do you know what the damage was? Millionaires. At the campaign, imagine, "let's roll the sleeve" they called it, it went 11.6m euros, and the citizens' response was disastrous, in addition. It seems to me that it was called "to turn away the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia". The next affair, the affair of Minister Tomica Milosavljevic and his operation. He was operated in Munich's hospital in April 2010, from a discussion of hernia, which was an expression of mistrust in domestic health. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia remember that very well. (Radoslav Milojic: That little wolf? ) You who throw away, I saw the graphics the day before yesterday: “What drinks the bar” in the Smederjev Palace. "Budget pays everything, I'm yellow Ken from Glibovac, p. “ An affair of swine flu vaccines, a huge theft of swine flu vaccines. Only imports of vaccines for 2009 have been damaged by 1.6m euros. A moment ago, my MPs from the opposition spoke, who robbed, did you or me? Gentlemen, the citizens know this very well and remember it, I just remind them, since this law is on the agenda. An affair over the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre in Belgrade. Would you gentlemen like me to tell you that information? The previous speaker, come on, the speaker, the science doctor who called me here, read the data of her colleague who never comes to the Assembly, but tweets and calls us whatever, and he's known as a "sniffer." You know what that means. But in this assembly, Mr. Minister, it is said – University Hospital, children's clinic in Tirshaw 7.8 million, but they are not following this Assembly. Here they are, not three MPs. Serbia's clinical centre -- 15m euros, here said, KBC "Dragisa Misovic" -- 12m euros, KBC "Zemun" -- twom euros. Furthermore, I don't speak only at Belgrade level, and they claim it wasn't you, and neither are we here that we didn't export. While we here, individual MPs, follow closely, until they play toys. You see on the opposite side, just like this colleague does. Next affair – an affair trade in waiting lists at the Oncology Institute, related to this law. Please, it's a famous affair, a hundred people died, determined, by abuse of that list, because 400 patients from abroad brought in while our patients were dying. Do you know what the damage was? A million euros. That's how they destroyed health care. The Jucit affair, with the purchase of an ambulance, has been paid for in advance, Madam President, and has not been delivered. However, individuals have been arrested, in this case five have been arrested. I can list you as many affairs as you want. Let me leave my colleagues for discussion about this law to say. Gentlemen of the opposition, you have destroyed our past, you have destroyed our present, you have destroyed the future of our children. (Balsa Bozovic: And Serbs in Croatia? ) If you had stayed a little longer, another year in power, you would have destroyed our roots. You transfer Croatia to me, shame on you! While I was defending Serbs in Croatia, you were attacking the state and our president here! Radoslav Milojic: You defended?- I'm sorry. Calm down, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25546	Ambassador Milojicic, behave yourself. At least respect the years of MPs, if nothing else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25547	Madam President, this one that throws me out of the Smederjevska Palanka, 470 million, the Serb Sisavac will testify that his colleague has embezzled. He knows very well who I'm talking about and there, when I came here with the students to study, look at the graphite in the center of Smederevska Palanka. The truth is alive, standing like this, and I end up with this: “There's no beer left in Palanca, all the foam, and there's a yellow Ken, and the beer was expensive, and I drank it, and I bought it, and there's a coffee shop, and there's a budget to pay for it, and I'm the yellow Ken from Glibovac! “ See if it’s written or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25548	Replic or Rules of Procedure? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25549	I'm glad the citizens of Serbia could see the favorite MP, Alexander Vukic. First of all, I have to say that I'm proud to come from the village of Glibovac in the heart of the Forest and I'm sorry that the SNS spits on all the people who live in the villages, but it's up to you, it's not on us who live in the villages. A man is not seen by suit, nor by how much money he has, but by where he is, but by what kind of man he is, which I'm not sure the gentlemen across the street would get a passing grade. It's nice to meet you. I'd like to thank the Minister for warning me a little sooner if I didn't get nervous and it affected his health, I'm really grateful. I'm grateful that he hasn't given a single answer to all these machinations and thefts he's admitted to being there in the last six years, a lot since the SNS was in power. I tried not to get nervous, Mr. Minister, and thank you for that well-intentioned criticism, advice or whatever it is you want to understand. I can't help it when I and my colleagues and the entire opposition and all the citizens of Serbia can't help but be nervous when we don't know what we're going to send our kids to school tomorrow, because we've all been robbed by the SNS. We can't help but be nervous when we don't know how we're going to pay for the electricity that you've collected four times since you came to power from the SNS. We can't help but be nervous because you kidnapped Serbian citizens, kidnapped Serbian citizens, harassed anyone who thinks differently and who talks differently. We can't help it. Now to cheer you up, this irritation will stop very soon, because the rebellion led by the DS will clear you from Serbia's political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25550	The word has a People's MP Darko Laketić, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25551	Dear President, first of all, I expect to... (Radoslav Milojic: You are hiding like mice behind Vukic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25552	Please, I'll give you my word back. I ask the MP to behave himself, to allow at least someone to answer you, and to listen without shouting, throwing, without insulting, chatting with those MPs there, because then the replica doesn't make sense. (Radoslav Milojic: Mr. Martinovic throws it to me. We listened carefully to what you had to say, and now you listen to what's going on...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25553	Give me back this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25554	I will.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25555	President-in-Office, first of all, since it's medical laws, I've been expecting and expecting people from the profession to talk today and be a lot of medical arguments in all of this. I cannot accept that people who were the bearers of a particular party, political story in the bar and left behind a wasteland today criticise it in any way, even in such a shameful manner. Especially I can't let the medical laws... I can't stand this kind of thing when I hear medical laws are being discussed this way. Not only that, I'm used to argument, one careful argument about everything that's exposed. On the other hand, can we say that the man who left behind 470 million debts in local self-government discusses and talks about some medical progress or about the Medical Devices Act or about documentation, and I don't know what? These are not things that he can discuss, of course, with arguments, but only on a flat-rate basis, exclusively with falseness. I ask you, in the future, to sanction the presidents, such attacks, and this kind of misrepresentation in an adequate manner and punish them in a timely manner. What I'd like to say about what's been done in this period, the past, about health care, not being unspecified, is that a budget fund for treating children abroad has been established and that, thanks to him, more than 80 children have been given a chance to live, that intensified activities are related to the completion of clinical centres...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25556	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25557	I thank you for these terms of “cleaning and other things”. I am really in favour of pure Serbia, healthy Serbia, so I hope it will clean up and come, that the citizens of Serbia will do it. I have to apologize to all citizens of Serbia because as a government, like all authorities, we have managed to prevent bankruptcy. I apologize for opening new jobs, for reducing unemployment. I'm sorry we opened up the highway miles away. I apologize for restoring hospitals, health homes, for doing what was not done and what should have been done before, and I am sure that because of what we have done, what we have done, what we have done will listen to you and will cleanse Serbia. We'll see who, but they'll clean it up for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25558	The word has been made by the People's Messenger George Komlenski, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25559	The chairman, you allowed the previous speaker to hurt Article 107, because Mr. Milojic hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, saying here about the threats, about some rebellion, about the violent change of power he dreams of, and it is absolutely unacceptable in this home, because this is not in 2000 that will never happen again, and that Mr. Milojic would rather go to prison as a rebel in an attempt than as a criminal, it may be his wish. I can trust him that he is not ashamed that he is the resident of the village of Glibovac, but I am absolutely certain that the inhabitants of the town of Glibovac are ashamed that Mr. Milojic is a resident of the same village.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25560	The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25561	Thank you. I'm advocating Article 27, President of the Assembly. What's important is that one topic on the agenda that we need to talk about is completely open, and it primarily interests citizens who have a great fear of inability to treat. That's why this topic is important, and that's why it's good that the minister is here to exchange some things. What you, as President of the Assembly, have allowed is, not only the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but that your fellow MP, Radoslav Milojic, is being insulted by SNS speakers who are calling into question the support of your colleague from where he comes from. All I'm going to say is that my colleague Milojic won 75% in that village where you say he's ashamed of his citizens. So, you shouldn't underestimate anyone in this house absolutely, in this room. There are, of course, elections to always measure ourselves local, and Belgrade, and republican and they're going to meet us. This kind of thing, this kind of slander and this kind of insult is absolutely not standing and not like this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25562	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25563	It's 103rd position eight again, Madam President. More like a suggestion on my part to think about it together, and I don't insist on us voting on this, and it again refers to abuses to raise this Rules of Procedure high so that what is said for the purpose of replication. I think we heard that again. I understand someone's need to defend their party friend, the second, the fellow, whatever their relationships are, but I don't think it can be done through the abuses of the Rules of Procedure. Fortunately for us, this Rules of Procedure gives us space to sanction such things, for example, by taking time. Maybe there wasn't a full two minutes, here, this one minute as insolent as it was, but just because of those citizens who are following all this and who are very interested in all this. Among other things, because they are interested in every fact related to the devastation of every system, including health at a time when the "yellow company" burned and burned this country. Because of them, this should be a session where you have a serious conversation, so when, for example, certain percentages are mentioned, that people do it with a certain weight, they take care of what they say. I don't think there's a percentage of support here right now, they're more than clear to everyone, it doesn't need to be paid particular attention when everyone knows who has absolute support in this country, and who's below the censorship line by every research. I'm thinking about percentages here, we're talking about an important portfolio, so the resources in it are important, percentages, abuse of funds, for example, behind local budgets, that's about the 470 million and the four billion that we mentioned today. This refers to everything that has been embezzled by this "yellow company", and what needs to be accurately shown here. So you don't need the Rules of Procedure to be used for each other's accounts and shootings, not for a minute, not for two. As much as we abuse, whether we, or those on the other hand, I'm in favour of making amends from the time of the debate, and what's going to be the impression, I think it's very important for the citizens, just so they don't make up like 2000 and the worst of the worst give them the chance to ruin everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25564	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that the proposals for health care laws that are on the agenda today are very important, and that each of these proposals should be led by an individual debate, and should not have been united, precisely because of the importance of the area governed by these proposals. It is not a good thing, I may say, but it has become a practice to discuss more of the agenda points as one point, because in this way, MPs are denied the time to seriously and arguedly discuss government proposals. In particular, this is a problem when discussing amendments, as more and more frequent bill proposals are adopted without the possibility of discussing the proposal in particular. Here, for example, at the last session, we came to a situation where, of the two draft laws, to which we submitted a number of amendments, we couldn't discuss. On the proposal for a law on medical means, as well as a proposal for a law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the area of health that we are discussing today, we have submitted amendments to which we want to make these proposals, as far as we can, specificise or improve. The proposal for a medical law is another law that requires us to pass, and it has implemented harmonisation and compliance with the directives and other EU regulations. As for us Serbian radicals, it is an initial problem, because it is pointless to comply with laws with some of the organisation's directives that Serbia will never enter. The health system in Serbia is inefficient and it presents a long-standing problem that we all have objections to and requires root reforms. The key problems in health care are in addition to excessive bureaucracy, small salaries of health workers and corruption, which is the cancer of the Serb society's wounds and kilometre waiting lists. At the beginning of this year, the cataract surgery, which is the most common surgical intervention and which is counted in routine operations and which lasts only 15 minutes, is waiting for 31,000 patients. This intervention cannot be delayed indefinitely, because due to long-term delay it can become risky, because it can result in complete opacity of the eye lens, then attacks glaucoma that can permanently damage vision. The average waiting time for this intervention is from one year to four years. There is no better situation in the orthopedic area, where there are about 17,000 patients on waiting lists for orthopaedic surgery. At Banjica orthopedic hospital, there are 4,646 patients waiting for the knee braces and the last one will arrive on December 31st, 2019. So it's about a period of more than two years, during which patients not only suffer the torments they have suffered, but are in danger of becoming permanent people with disabilities. The waiting lists for patients would be more tolerable if they were formed by urgency and priority interventions, not that due to bribery and corruption services first get paid powerful patients, while those who are not, often come into the situation to be late when they come to order for surgery. Minister, you have to stop that. Without it, every story of reform will be nothing but a story and empty promise. When it comes to orthopaedic aids and medical means, corruption often occurs in the copying and recommending of these funds, the distribution of which is carried out only by individual companies, i.e. individual economic operators. So, the doctor is agreeing with representatives of a company that distributes certain medicines, aids and medical resources, to recommend and prescribe their products to patients for the purpose of obtaining a certain cash refund, or percentage of the product sold. What is alarming is that doctors in this case do not care about the interests of patients, the quality of the product, the indications and contraindications of a particular product, but rather take personal material interests. In addition, the minister himself spoke of such lobbyes, or pharmaceutical mafias, which promoted the thesis that children should not be vaccinated, so now we are returning to the epidemic that was due to remain in the 20th century. Then, the draft law defines the activities of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and it is the Agency that registers medical resources, manages the product register, conducts a technical assessment of medical resources and does not list any further. On the website of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in the register of medical agents from January of the month, products with status are valid, says the generic name of the obituaries, that is the class of medical means first, category of medical means – technical means for disabled persons. Then we've got a wrist restraint, same class of medical means first, technical means for disabled persons, that's a category of medical means. There is also a strap for the ankle jumper, brace for the knee, etc. I don't want to count it all. All these clamps are used in rehabilitation after surgery and various injuries, and I don't know how they can be categorized as a technical means for disabled faces at all. Otherwise, you should know that the term - disabled faces have been no longer used for about ten years, it is now summed up in terms of persuasive character. Instead, the term is used – persons with special needs. You will be resented by those in the EU for using this term. Further in this list of medical means, same as in January, says the pregnant women's seat belt, a technical means for disabled persons. Unbelievable. In addition to the fact that a term is used on the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices site – disabled persons who are extremely offensive, appear in extremely absurd things, among which it is particularly frightening to place pregnant women in these disabled persons. That's how future mothers make fun of each other and make fun of each other. How can you explain that? What message do you send by placing pregnant women in handicapped persons, to Serbian citizens? It's not exactly in line with the government's declarative commitment to creating conditions for increasing birth rate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25566	Thank you very much. The word is Grodan Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25567	Thank you, Madam Chairman. With respect, respected ministers with associates, dear colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia, since I belong to PUPS, it is logical for us to have PUPS, as an organisation that has protection, interest and improvement in the situation of the oldest, one of the focus of interest is the work of the health system and its constant improvement, because the most users come from the order of our oldest citizens. Medicines, medical resources may be the most sensitive part of the health care system, and it is natural that the area is treated with special attention, which seeks to treat all segments in this area to the smallest detail. Given that at least once in our lives each of us has been forced to take some of the medicines or visit a doctor, that the market for medicines and medical resources is large and that there is always great competition, often unfair, it becomes clear that the positive legal regulations must constantly follow the practice and comply with world trends in this area. Therefore, while the previous law was passed seven years ago, it imposed the need to adopt a new legislative solution in the EU legislation process. Following these solutions and in our legislation, separation is now being carried out, by particularly treating the area of medicines, and especially the area of medical means in which we adopt this law. It has been defined to include instruments, appliances, implants, reagents used for diagnosis, replacement of body parts or cleaning of medical resources. These are, therefore, some things that are an integral and inevitable part of modern medicine, yet they are not drugs. As such, they are subject to certain mechanisms of control before placing on the market and use, and precisely in this area this law makes significant newspapers, as it reduces to a certain extent the deadlines within which the Agency for Medicinal Products, medical resources must decide on the approval of these means of use. It is certainly a useful newspaper, because it will help to examine these funds and administrative jobs, in relation to their release into the market, do in a more efficient way, for a shorter period of time, without being lost to the reliability of these studies. One of the motives for adopting this law is to comply with EU regulations. I don't think I should explain how important it is for both our pharmaceutical industry and the state at all. We have, in our time, had very strong companies in this area that made significant revenues, but they were eventually either shut down or not dealing with those capacities with which they could. This law will allow medical resources to comply with standards applicable in EU territory, which will make it much easier for these producers to place their products on markets from which only multiple benefits can be found. On the other hand, the bill provides for a more rigorous control of the medical means to be imported, as controls show that the largest number of medical resources, which have not passed the test, comes from outside EU countries, which will also mean an increase in the quality of the market for these products. Part of today's law package is a confirmation of a contract that the European Investment Bank will grant a new 50m-euro loan for the reconstruction and construction of clinical centres in four of our largest regional centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. This loan is only part of a wider modernisation project, an expansion of hospital capacities that began to be realised more than a decade ago. Even then, it was predicted that this amount would be available in these last years of work, on these projects that should finally and fully be completed by 2021, which should finally give a real effect to raising the level of health care in the entire territory of our country. For these reasons, it is necessary to support the proposals of all three legislative solutions, which are on the agenda today. At the same time, I believe that if we are not yet ready for full compliance with European regulations, then, even if for reasons of legal technique, a new drug law should be adopted in order for this very important area to be fully codified. I will also briefly take the opportunity to ask the Minister of Health, Mr. Loncar, and to appeal, of course, to all the employees of the Ministry, who will, of course, take the initiative to do so, to handle medical remedies, because in our case, often and day today, it is possible to see that various medicines, substances, mass sales on the drinking gigs, which I believe, and many citizens, are completely inconceivable, and in such cases, someone in the system of production and distribution has failed. Another important problem with medications of medical means, which have expired, I don't think a large number of citizens are informed at all about the possibility that such things are being put off safely, and that in most pharmacies and health institutions, no boxes with notices or other marked places, where citizens could bring such things for further treatment. Instead of simply throwing them into municipal waste or sewer systems, which seems to be a major damage to the environment. If I'm not mistaken, this is the legal obligation of these institutions, so I would like to appeal to Mr. Minister Loncar that through his team, of course, the entire ministry, the services within the Ministry of this account, because the disposal of medical resources and medicines is a very big problem. I don't know how the health care facilities do it, but it has to be handled anyway. I thank you, the PUPS will, of course, vote for all the laws that you have proposed. Of course, because they're totally fine and because as a citizen, they're going to do us a great deal of good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25568	Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25569	Thank you, President. I must admit that in the past few hours, we have heard a lot of glorious outflows of love for this set of laws from the parliamentary majority, and a phrase full of nothing even from some readers who call themselves teachers. Given the shortness of time and only a few minutes left, I will use a few questions to ask the Minister, since there has been no word here about what I and my colleagues from the New Party, the Single Members' Club is very interested, which is mandatory to tariff the vigilance, i.e. the risk of harmfulness and adverse consequences of medical resources following a recently adopted new decision by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, two or three weeks ago, which has been published in the Official Messenger, which has taken effect and will start to apply since 1 January 2018, and on the basis of which the tariffs of the violin have been introduced as mandatory tariffs by the Agency, which will, of course, raise the amount and collect medical resources. I do not know on which basis, from which norms of this law have been drawn this right and given this right to the Agency, which alone increases the budget by almost double amount, because the Agency's income so far has been about 1 million euros per year, and with this additional mandatory trifling of the Agency's medical income producers, i.e. the benefit, or the total unnecessary imposition, will increase by an additional of around 750,000 euros, all at the expense of citizens, who, of course, will, in accordance with the increased price of medical resources, first on their backs or on their backs, however you will, or by their wallet, feel it. What is problematic, too, is that we are constantly listening to the harmonisation of this law with EU directives. So I'm also interested in what basis this vigillance tariff is defined for every medical agent, not for example. for a group of funds, as classified by the EU directives. So that's how we came up with the bill that if each of the 37,000 registered medical resources, so times the amount which, here in this decision, is clear to warn the manufacturers of medical means or authorized persons, because a bunch of people don't know that this decision has been adopted and that it will apply since January, so any additional tariff on medical means individually to be tariffd is an additional revenue from... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25570	Thank you, you've wasted your time. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25571	Unfortunately, this has nothing to do with these laws here. The second thing, this change in the tariffs of the Agency for Medicinal Products, which has not been changed, I think, for more than 10 years, is the alignment with the region, where it remains the lowest in the region, and there is no additional cost to patients, nor to anything, simply part to the pharmaceutical industry. So, no extra cost or anything. I repeat, coordination at regional level remains the cheapest in the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25572	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25573	Thank you. Dear President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, we've heard a lot tonight, mostly that the laws are very important. What I can tell you is, there are no serious objections. However, I cannot help but look at some of the comments made just before my speech. As for the vigillance assessment, when we talk about it, we need to know what that means, that a group of medical resources can't be monitored. It is a set of activities related to the detection, collection, assessment, understanding, and response to new knowledge of the risks of a medical agent. Therefore, if we use one medical agent, we must also monitor it and monitor its effects, especially with regard to implants, whether it is plastic surgery, orthopedics, some instruments, or other medical agents, etc. So everyone in a special way cooperates with the organism and that monitoring must be in that sense. Another thing that applies specifically to this law, I think that we haven't had a more comprehensive law that includes both producers and the economy and consulting houses and accreditation houses and allows a large number of young people, who have been educated for management and manufacturing, to finally find themselves a job, but not in the state and public sectors, but as good businessmen and good employers. That's what to think about. When we talk about harmonising with EU laws, we have had the opportunity to hear that we should not do this because we will never get there. Well, we are not doing it for that reason to get somewhere, but to allow our producers to place their medical resources equally on the EU market. Whether we want to admit it or not, Serbia's biggest exchange is with the EU countries. Well, they won't let us, without certain certifications, without certain procedures, procedures and evidence that we did so, that a product that has no CE marking enters their market. Another thing we need to take care of, there are countries in the East and the West that have exactly certain accreditation houses that just admit the results. Therefore, we must also take care of it. Countries that have very high and strict criteria, especially when it comes to medical means, and require not only the CE mark but also the control of the risk according to the law, i.e. ISO 3485, or for packaging material according to ISO 15378. So we won't have a good medical medicine and proper medical medicine if the packaging in which we wrapped it isn't correct, if it's not hygienically correct, if it's not respected good hygiene practice, good manufacturing practice, good distribution practice. This also applies to the wholesale. It's very important to respect procedures and try to reduce the risk. The risk can't be reduced to zero, nobody has ever done it, but we can take whatever it takes to keep that risk as low as possible and not repeat it often at the expense of patients, and therefore to the harm of the state, because the rates of disability due to the poor prosthetics that were once imported were very high. The other thing is, I just can't figure out how you didn't understand what the minister said a few days ago when it came to pharmaceuticals and vaccines. We've had, let's say, not to promote public health, but to push prevention into secrecy these 15 years. So, for the first time now, with this minister headed by our ministry, I feel like a dignitary preventer. Believe me, if we're talking about legislating and transposing the law, then the biggest mistake you've ever made is when you turned health care agencies into public health institutions. Well, what secret health is that? Where are your hygienic epidemiological services in your health homes? Where are your diabetes dispensers? You didn't need all that. You didn't need any prevention at all. I am very happy that the minister has brought an addition to this Medical Documentation Act, where, finally, from 15-year-old darkness, public health is being seduced and prevented, in that full sense, the words of prevention. So, prevention based on preventive branches. We are very discreet people, simply, there are few of us and it is best for one country not to see each other. Because when we simply become visible, then there are epidemics and improper water and polluted air, and then we remember both hygienicologists and epidemiologists and social medicine. Now, in order not to remember us often, we'd better have a minister like this and a ministry like this reminding us of that prevention. I can't help but mention a gentleman who's a lobbyist, or an antivacinal lobbyist, who sells his alleged immunosupply preparation very well and is an excellent advertiser. That man said, "Well, we'll vaccinate the children, no problem when an epidemic breaks out." Here's the epidemic. But that's not the worst thing that could have gotten us. The preventers are looking 10, 15, 20 years ahead. Imagine the military and working ability of a country to be when unvaccinated generations of morbils arrive, which are very contagious in 20 years. So it's a danger to take care of and to think about. These antivaccinal lobbies aren't so strong and their plans aren't so simple and single. That's something to take care of. To you, Minister, every honor of such good laws and certainly I and all well-meaning MPs will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25574	Here you go, replica Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25575	I thank the president. I'm advertising Article 104. I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure by not giving me the right to a replica after my presentation, after which the minister answers, who fully interpreted my words wrong, and in his answer does not at all refer to what I have asked as a very correct question. I think the minister agrees. He replied to me with general information on the amendment of this Regulation on the tariffing of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25576	MPs, we're talking about the breach of Rules of Procedure to Rule 104. I'm not talking about trying to replicate you through a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25577	I'm trying to explain to you what your mistakes are about, because you didn't give me the right to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25578	I got it all figured out. Article 104, the final position is that of the president.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25579	You won't even listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25580	Because you abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25581	I have a right to explain. No, I don't abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25582	You're abusers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25583	I'm trying to explain my right to the replica you denied me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25584	You gave yourself a line, so you can't. Article 104 is very clear and says that the president of parliament gives a replica when he considers that he has a basis for replication, and does not give the MP the right to replicate himself through the institution of violations of the Rules of Procedure. You know that very well. The word is from MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25585	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed Mr. Ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, today are the three laws in the field of health and this is the addition of the Health Documentation and Records Act in the area of health, the Medical Funds Act and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Contract of the Clinical Centre between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The Health Documentation Act was passed on 10 November 2014, and its application began on 1 January 2017. At the time of its adoption, it was determined what an integrated health information system, i.e. ISIS, is doing. It is made up of the information system of health insurance organisations, health institutions, private practices and other legal entities, but in 2014 ISIS itself has not yet been established. The law was inconclusive in the sense that it did not contain observations by the Commissioner on information of public importance and protection of personal data. The adoption of this law will allow for the precise identification of a legal person who will be responsible for the smooth operation of health institutions and health systems in general, based on the principles of electronic business, and his obligations in the event of a breach of data, as well as sanctions unless followed. The institution responsible for the above is the Public Health Institute of Serbia established for Serbia's territory as a data handler for ISIS. Otherwise, ISIS itself is organised and developed to plan and manage health care systems, health insurance and data in relation to the health status of the population, to finance health care, and to function the health system. The database, i.e. software based on the functioning of the ISIS, will be set up at the Institute for Public Health and will only improve the management of health-statistical data. Public Health Institute in case there is no register of persons with a disease of greater public health significance. Then, in the event that it does not provide reports to the Ministry and the authorities responsible for the area of health and unless they inform the data subject in terms of the security breach of their data, they will be fined 50 to 1,000 to two million dinars and the responsible person in the health care facility from 30 to 150,000 dinars. The adoption of this law achieves a basic objective, which is to bring it into line with the regulations governing the protection of personal data. This allows for the smooth functioning of health institutions as well as the health system in general, so that patients using health care services will be fully protected by personal data. This raises patient health data to one higher level, at least as far as the protection of this data is concerned. It should be pointed out that the application of this law does not require additional funding, which is a very important fact. As regards the Law on Medical Resources, they are governed by the conditions for the production and transport of medical means, i.e. the placing on the market and use in the Republic of Serbia. The medical agent may be general, and this includes any instrument, apparatus or device, software, implant, reagent, material and other products used on their own or in combination. Auxiliaries for a medicinal product, i.e. devices, is a non-medical product, but which has been specifically intended by the manufacturer to be used in combination with a medicinal product. In vitro, diagnostic-medical means regeneration, calibration, control material, instruments and apparatus as well as software designed for use in vitro conditions for sample testing. Implantable medical medicine is designed to be incorporated in a body or human body in part or in whole, whose purpose is to remain in the body and after medical procedure. For medical means placed on the EU market, there is a European database for medical means that centralises the data on the registration of producers of so-called ‘producers’. EUDAMED. The members of the EU for medical resources shall have their own association with the competent authorities of the so-called camp. As regards the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is above all a matter of compliance with the directives and other EU regulations in the field of medical means, and by the Directive on general means used in human medicine, the Directive on Active Implantable Medical Devices, the In vitro Medical Agents and Guidelines and guides. Accordingly, the Agency is authorised to exercise control over media resources in terms of protecting against the existence of insecure imported medical resources. Any means containing a c sign, a conformity sign may be placed in use. In order to prevent the emergence or prevention of serious public health consequences in the event of an epidemic, the Government may, on a proposal from the Minister, prescribe a different way and conditions for placing on the market and registration of medical means for clinical examination, production and transport, then technical assessment of medical means, marking, vigulator, advertising as well as the application of different standard conditions prescribed by this law and regulations adopted for its implementation. In voting day, the SNS will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25586	Thank you. The word is Ljupka Mihajlovska. He's not here. The word is Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25587	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a package of laws governing the area of health. For the first time, the draft medical law regulates the area of production and transport of medical means, their placing on the market in the Republic of Serbia, clinical trials of medical means, vigilance, monitoring of all the legal parameters prescribed for the release of means of transport, assessing the consistency of medical means with the basic requirements of advertising and marking of medical means and supervision in this area, as well as other issues of relevance to medical means. The area has so far been regulated in the law along with medicines, i.e. the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, when the alignment of this area with EU regulations was launched. In the areas of medical resources, a partial alignment with the relevant European regulation has been carried out, and in order to enable an economy which at that time did not operate in accordance with European standards to continue its business on the market of the Republic of Serbia, in order to enable it to gradually coordinate its business and its products with the highest standards on the safety and quality of medical resources. Harmonisation of regulations in the field of medical resources with European regulations will allow domestic medical producers to place their products, both in EU countries and in other countries of the world, which will also contribute to the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. This law regulates only the area of medical means used in human medicine and not the means used in veterinary medicine. In fact, in EU regulations, as well as in EU Member States, the areas of medical resources for veterinary and human medicine are regulated by separate regulations. Medicinal products and veterinary medicinal products, or their application, will be governed by special law. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of amending the provisions governing clinical trials of medical means, i.e. the way and procedure of their approval, as well as the reduction of deadlines, which will create conditions to encourage a greater number of clinical trials in healthcare institutions by healthcare professionals. The deadline for approval of clinical trials was reduced to 60 days and given this shortened time limit and parallel procedure, an increased number of requirements for clinical trials are expected. This is particularly relevant for multicentre studies, i.e. trials conducted simultaneously in several countries. These include standards applied in conducting a clinical study, which are guidelines of good clinical practice, i.e. standards of the World Health Organization for clinical trials of medicinal products on human beings. Therefore, the study participant is fully protected because the highest standards of the World Health Organization are used. The amendments to this part of the law, namely by defining the clinical trial process itself, will allow greater availability of the latest scientific achievements in medicine to provide patients with modern and innovative therapy without increasing costs for the health system of the Republic of Serbia. This proposal for a law will overcome any doubt that has been observed in the course of the application of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. First of all, I am referring to treatment and those medical resources that do not come from EU territory, because such a solution from now on will have to go through the same standardised control, all in accordance with EU domestic regulations and regulations, and yet all in order to protect the health of the population. Most products on our market satisfy and meet EU requirements and are marked "C" with a sign of consistency. Only 0.6% of medical resources don't have that sign. These funds are mostly from countries outside the European Union, but due to the lower price, these funds are used quite a bit, and therefore it is necessary to apply the provisions of this law to them. The various types of tests and procedures introduces the essential control of the safety and characteristics of medical means, both the manufacturer and the designated body in relation to the present, mainly the documentary control. Another bill that is part of this demanding package that we are discussing today is the Proposal for a Law on Health Documentation and Records in the field of health care. And here, I must commend the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the fact that, in the light of certain shortcomings and the apparition of them by the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data, it immediately approached the removal of concerns about the jurisdiction and responsibility for the preservation and processing of data on the health of our citizens. The fact is that data on the health status of citizens are the most sensitive and intimate part and the most intimate data that require special treatment regarding the preservation, processing and definition of access by responsible or authorised persons and institutions. This bill sets out the responsibility of the Public Knowledge Institute of the Republic of Serbia, which will be responsible for the preservation, processing and access of data on the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to say that the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health has been fully implemented in practice and shown usefulness, especially at the level of primary health care. My previous colleagues presented some information on the problems of using this information system, and I would point out that the great importance of introducing the Central Information System was shown above all recently, by introducing an electronic recipe, which made it easier to treat, i.e., the practical application of the electronic recipe reduced the number of arrivals of chronic patients in health care homes, thus facilitating the work of healthcare workers in health homes, and certainly the abuse of patients who had to come to the health home once a month just for the sake of prescriptions in this way was reduced. Finally, I would like to say a few sentences on the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Reconstruction of Four Clinical Centres in Serbia. Since it is a continuation of the reconstruction of the clinical centres of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, which are our most important institutions of territorial health care and which provide services of top experts and carry out the most modern diagnostic and operational procedures, confirming this contract as well as creating conditions for the completion of these reconstructions is of particular importance for the public health of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Ministers, I am taking the opportunity to express my gratitude for the understanding of both the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who together over the last few years have invested a lot in health care and improving the conditions in providing health services. This seems not only at the level of large clinical centres and in larger cities, but also in smaller environments, such as Lazarec, a place where I live and work and where the construction of an extra-bolical maternity facility is under way, which you, along with the President of the Assembly, have set up. The construction of this maternity facility will improve the working conditions of doctors, but also the conditions of maternity accommodation. On the other hand, what is also of great importance is that the disposal of the maternity facility will create conditions for the spatial expansion of the Special Hospital for endemic nephropathy in Lazarjevac, which was located in the same building with the extra-bolical maternity site, which, to point out, has a large hemodialysis centre, with 110 patients being treated there, which has a hospital capacity of 30 beds and this extension will certainly affect both the health and housing conditions of patients in this institution and improving the working conditions of staff at the Special Hospital for endemic nephropathy in Lazarovac. Due to all that, in the voting day, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will vote for the adoption of a package of health laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25588	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25589	Thank you. The presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, distinguished citizens, respected ministers with associates, what is on the agenda today, and we have said several times, and authorized before the Democratic Party Parliament Club Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, are very important laws on the agenda. Every time the Government comes to the Assembly, and it is health laws, or laws that regulate health care in Serbia, I think that citizens have a lot more interest than there are other things. Why? Because there is little talk in Serbia today about a situation affecting every resident of our country. Political debate in this sense should be used to simply exchange arguments, to refer to those things that the government has possibly done in the last five, and here, we enter into the sixth year and see what is the situation on the ground itself. That's what citizens expect from us in the end. I disagree with the mandate of the SNS parliamentary group, that only doctors and doctors should speak on these topics, that is, when they are on the agenda of health laws. I don't know how to operate, of course, because I graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, but on the other hand, I know what difficulties and fears Serbian citizens face when it comes to the state of our health system. So, fear of inability to treat is the biggest fear that exists today in Serbia. Neither is fear of losing a job, which is also big, nor is fear of inability to hire, which is also great, Serbia's biggest fear today is fear of inability to treat. The whole situation in Serbia describes a sentence – "God did not allow you to get sick in Serbia", and it has been such a situation for many years. I'm not saying that in 2012, it was better not to get into a fight right away - what the last regime did, what this regime did. I think the fear of inability to treat is something the DS insists on, along with its President Dragan Sutanovac, the DS Parliament Club, which has repeatedly referred to many other ways as a health problem. First of all, everyone knows that doctors are leaving, and everyone knows that if this situation continues simply in Serbia, there will be no one left to treat. What is costing the state to make a good surgeon, one Germany, one Austria, one Switzerland or Sweden, take everything that one Serbia has invested in specialising in a particular area, to have someone finish medicine, to become a doctor, that other countries unfortunately use because the country's poor economic situation. Small wages, they talk first of all about the poor quality of service, which is provided to citizens, also tells about it. More and more of the biggest experts, as you know, are going to the private sector. There are also very large experts in state hospitals, but they are increasingly committed to continuing their business in the private sector. The private sector, of course, is somewhat better arranged, or much better, but it costs. I would not agree with you and your finding that there and their services in the private health sector are looking for those who have money to pay for it. No, I think there's also citizens who don't have to pay for the checkup, but they just go because they can't have that review or get that treatment at a state-run facility. The waiting lists are such that simply often, unfortunately, I repeat, many who suffer from severe illness do not welcome treatment, you know that. The reviews also require a few months to wait for the elementary and the most basic, and that is simply what citizens want to solve at the moment. So the system must change. That's what the point is. You're talking today about borrowing, how many million euros, to arrange another clinical hospital center. And, I welcome that, and I think it's a smart investment, but I want to tell you that we didn't do anything if there's no rush again, if there's no turn again, if there's any, every honor, and cyber and gamma knife, but, how can I tell you, the army of Serbia won't be more content and more equipped if we have a satellite. So again, the soldier will be the one who won't have boots, won't have a uniform, won't have the basic means to work, also in health care. In health care, we can't use a gamma knife, we can't use a cyber knife, we can do all the shopping, but it's just one drop in the sea of the negative things that exist in this system and what citizens, even those who work in the health system feel it every day. You mentioned prevention, and I also welcome it, and I think you should also do a lot more work on it. It's much more honest to say -- people can't change this system, we've been in power for six years, we haven't been able to do anything, let's invest more in prevention. However, you are also boycotted by certain facts. The budget rebalance was in Belgrade a few days ago, 74m dinars spent less by the end of this year on prevention. So it was transferred to next year. So, these are some things, and who knows how many more on different local self-governments have been similar, or the same things have happened. Corruption is a huge problem and citizens also have daily contact with it. So it's much cheaper for a man to go to a private hospital to get treatment than maybe double the amount of money to give me to someone corrupt in the health care system just to get in line. So it's also happening and it's also a thing that's become more than obvious, an integral part of actually everyday life. It's a set-up tender. Stealing. That's what you were talking about. I don't know why, for example. The Ministry didn't file any criminal charges. We have had several cases that certain ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have filed criminal charges for irregular tender procurement, etc. Why is he waiting with criminal charges when it comes to the Nis Clinical Hospital Center, which you yourself said there are both thefts and malfeasances and that late works because certain combinations, as you say, are done there? That's what the citizens are waiting for. They demand that the funds they pay, which they fill, allow them to be treated normally and decently. They simply don't have it in Serbia today. I know that the situation is such that it cannot be changed for a certain number of years unless the health system and health system are essentially reformed. Hospital conditions, do you know what kind of breakfast is like at the National Front foster home? You had those pictures that went out on Facebook and on Twitter, you had two salamis, an egg in half, and that's breakfast served in one hospital. So it's not in private hospitals, so it's not in other private institutions, but it is in state hospitals, and that's what's wrong, and that's what we have to change. The health fund, three times less money, transfers than it would have to do, and for that reason we have a health care facility blockade, we have a health home blockade, health homes have no aspirin, no bandages, let alone some more serious medications. Hospitals don't have the most basic means to work, let alone something more complicated and serious. That, of course, you're facing this situation, you, I have every right to ask you, not only am I a national MP, but because you've been in power for six years, and on the other hand, you don't feel that improvement that you promised and announced for years and years. When it comes to dentists, for example, we talked in 2012 about how important it is to invest in those things that really hurt citizens every day. So, we abolished the dental service, in Belgrade it became, as you know, and to a large extent it helped the citizens of Belgrade to be treated in this way, but simply with very little resources, that thing would develop very quickly, and would allow the citizens of Serbia to fix their teeth for cheap money, small money. So, I'm to you personally, it seems to me that we've already talked for the first time when you became a minister, about how much it would take, for example, a student polyclinic, which also, to some extent, has to do this for practice, so we've talked somewhere and we've tried to give you the whole plan and system so that we can increase the scope of practice, and then there's some really basic needs, those who fix teeth, that for really little money and little compensation, anyone can fix it in the studio polyclinic, and not just a student. But even students can't go there today, because there's also no funds, no fillings, no brushes, no certain necessary preparations and appliances that are necessary for the Studena polyclinic to function and work. The university can do a lot of good, we talked to the Belgrade University, they also said they could meet to a certain extent. It's a thing that costs absolutely nothing, I mean it costs, but it doesn't cost to this extent that we're talking about a 100m-euro loan today. So take another one million-euro loan and then double the capacities that exist today, because people can't fix their teeth and that's what it costs. With a broken tooth that creates many other problems, as you know, for years the citizens of Serbia have been trying to fight, but simply, it's not going and you can't address someone in the 21st century and you can't say what to do, that's the system, and that's the system before us, and then those before you say it – and that's them before us, and we'll never meet those who need it. So, basic things don't exist in the health system today. I don't want to say, and to be totally like that, if I were being maligned, I'd say the health system doesn't exist. He exists, he's long for years, corruption is huge. It's just that he's never been reformed. During the 1990s, the sanctions failed, the funds failed both the health fund and the PIO fund and many others. They've been robbed and there's no purpose in spending money, etc., but the situation is that we have to offer citizens an alternative, to invest more in prevention, to invest in systemic reforms, not to say – we bought a Gamma knife and now the thing is phenomenal. Any honor for this one purchase, for buying a complex system that can solve a certain number of cases in one time period, but again I'm telling you, if you buy an S300 for the Army, that army will still be hungry and thirsty. So, we'll still have doctors, despite the cyber knife, leaving the country in Germany. So we have to systematically solve things. Greater investment in health care, greater investment in education, less investment in some things that Serbian citizens do not see as their basic need for life. If we had invested that 180 million, as much as we've given for those moments, I'm telling you now because in the government of Serbia, so I assume you have government sessions, and you're talking about them, but these are some priorities. If you were 180 million, instead of being on second-hand planes, which absolutely no one sees a basic need for life, if you had invested half of that money in a health system, in a reform, we would have welcomed you, and I guess today the situation in hospitals would be very different. A few days ago, I took a friend, and I went to a private hospital with her, because there's a cataclysmic situation in the state hospital, a picture. There's a state of war, they crack walls, a simple, horror scene and images in the 21st century. So Cuba has a more orderly health system than Serbia today, and we cannot allow that, and that is something for a country that allegedly says it wants to go to the EU, to reach some European values, it cannot be a standard. We have to work much more on it, we have to invest much more to meet the needs of citizens who are afraid that they will not be able to get close to them or they themselves in Serbia to heal themselves. Fear, I repeat, is enormous from the inability to treat. There is no one, I speak from my surroundings for my own personal name. My few friends, you know what, it's a disaster. They're supposed to be free of treatment, they can't get anything, hospitals don't have anything, every drug they have to buy on their own. So that's tens and tens of thousands of dinars on salaries that either don't exist or are miserable and that's something each and every one of us faces every day. You have to buy everything you need to heal, and you're supposed to be free of charge. Then the question arises – then let's reform either a fund or a basic elemental protection to simply move something from the dead spot in some way. Otherwise, hospitals will look to us like they did in 1941 in Belgrade, so they're broken, broken like we're literally out of the war. So that's something we all have to work on together. I don't want to tell you again that you're the only one responsible for this. I can blame you because you haven't moved things in six years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25590	Time. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25591	One thing is true, and that is that in the citizens, not only of Serbia, not to say that fear that they will be able to heal is convincingly the largest. I've been keeping that in mind since the first day that I took over this function and I do everything that people don't have that fear, that is, to do everything in our power that people don't have to be afraid of. The other thing is, you don't get me wrong, but don't just think about it, I'm saying, don't get me wrong that you and your couple of friends are from the environment, that it's doing it to Serbia and that's the way it is in all of Serbia. Serbia is not only in Belgrade, it is not in the circle of two. Serbia is all over its territory. As for these findings, hospitals, states, walls, everything else, you know very well how it was found, not to go back, how much it was invested to take care of that infrastructure, to turn around, to have decent toilets, to fix the facades, not to leak, to work. I'm sure you know that. I'm sure you know how much, not to say again, we've given specialization, how many people we've hired, that it takes a time for these people to become specialists. You used the saying – God forbid you get sick in Serbia. I just have to tell you that all those people who are in those countries that you were talking about -- Switzerland, Germany or anywhere, when they get sick, they come to Serbia, because it's too expensive to be treated there. I think you agree that's a fact. Not to mix it with medical tourism now, where they have the quality of service and the price that suits them, so they come, and I don't know, even from America, from Canada, that they do it. As for dentists, I don't know if you've forgotten, but we've inherited dentists, in your time, dental work has been lifted, and we've had to pay after, because these people have stayed out of that decision. What we're taking care of, it's school kids, maternity and old ones. It's all over the world like that. We can talk now, but because of the investments they have, which we have, that's what we can do and we're gonna do everything we can to fix these things. As for the waiting list, waiting lists today are for a minimum half, or 50% less than they were. Let's say one thing, no one who's urgent is waiting. We've involved the private sector for cataract surgery, involved in out-of-body fertilization, gave three attempts, increased the limit to 42 years. I know you'll never be happy, but don't say the things you've been done to disrespect and say. We were the first to change that diet in maternity homes. The first thing we did, we changed that diet, we gave the criteria that have to be met right for maternity care, so we'll move on. They didn't want hospitals, it's not Hayat where it has to be, and I don't know what. It's important for people to get what they can, but to be cured, to have medical care and to have medication. They do. We don't have a situation where they have to buy gauze, that they have to buy a Band-Aid, that they have to go get the cure. Don't let anything be said that isn't. Well, we'd have the first on the cover to miss some of that. Don't let us talk about something that isn't. Health and account blocks. For this period that we're here for, which you say, there's not a single penny of debt made. It's all debt from the past, all debt, everything. Here, say one single dollar of the debt we made, that we owe someone else. Just be so real. Now we have that debt you left, plus interest. For this reason there are judgments, for this reason they come to list and prey on the property. That's the facts. Here, let's just talk facts. I understand, you can't be satisfied, you're such an option, okay, you want to show the citizens that it's worse than it is. If he could do it overnight, he couldn't. People, we're all aware of that. During the night, a huge system, in health care, you have 118,000 employees. We want everything to be free. We want to have all the medications, we want to have the most modern medications. You mention the Gamma knife. Over 1,500 people have been treated so far on this Gamma knife, directly saved lives. Would all 1,500 be able to go to Turkey or something? Accelerators, four working accelerators, removed lists in Kragujevac. The Kragujevac also receives these ambulances from other parts. Six more accelerators will be in the beginning of next year, the works are under way, you can tour, three more modern ones, for Belgrade, plus for Kladovo, plus for Nis, plus for Kragujevac, plus two more for Kamenica. A cyber contract has been signed, or it's not cyber, something better than a cyber knife. Why is that? For all tumors up to five centimeters, which can't be operated. What would these people do? And all that health insurance stuff, with a book, no extra charge. We've shared over 100 cents to this day. It's a mobile hospital that directly saves life. The sanities we found went over a million miles. Corruption. For the first time last year, health care wasn't at the very top of corruption, so we didn't want to admit it. Well, I didn't make it up. That's what they did. I've been fighting for 24 hours to get the corruption out of my health. So that's the worst thing for me to do if someone in health takes any money. I'm doing everything I can to make every penny the most of it. We've introduced everything we buy, anything the hospital wants or anything, it can be no problem, but it has to be paid the lowest price in Europe at the time of purchase. So when was that? How many thousands of young people have we hired? We need a new generation, that's where I agree. He needs to take it all out. It takes a new way of thinking, and we need them to have these machines, to perfect themselves, to bring foreign experts, to go abroad, but not to go touristic, but to return to us and to apply everything that needs to be done, which can help our people. Did we send out all those essential doctors you mention on the inside? Whether every day inland, they help people not to come from the interior to Belgrade, not to pay the way, not to harass their relatives who must drive them, who must visit them. Look what we did for New Market. Look for Nis. Look at this psych hospital, which was a horror movie, which we refurbished and released into work at Padinska Skela. Do you know what that looked like? Do you even know how? It was falling ceilings, it was falling, there you couldn't get through. Here, look what it looks like today. Has Dragisa Misovic been burned, reportedly, seven years ago, no one ever, nine years ago? Why did "Dragisa Misovic" burn? To show they spent money on two elevators that didn't exist. Don't be silly, none of us are that naive. Here, works started at Dragisa Misovic. Finally, that hospital will end. The system can't work. There are more and more people in Belgrade, we're getting sicker, and without one hospital, there's a huge problem. Let's just be so real. Do you really want to? Tell me, was there just one single dollar from the health department that was stolen? One single dollar. We're all in. Look at all the equipment that's been bought and how long it's gonna be. There's Tirshaw's facade. Do you remember what happened to the facade in Tirshaw? Do you remember that the facade was falling, that it was lucky that people didn't die? Do you know how much money has gone through that Tirshaw? Millions, millions, millions of donations, like this. Everything was falling. There, for the first time, it's a front and a carpentry for those kids. We'll build a new Tirshaw. We're going to build a new Institute of Oncology. They need projects, they have to get their licenses out. We will when we make it worth the next 30 years. I absolutely remember that not only in Serbia, it is the greatest fear that all citizens will be able to heal... And I'll do anything to improve those conditions and make sure those people don't have that fear. I'm responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25592	The word has the People's MP Darko Laketić, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25593	Thank you. First of all, we need to clarify some things, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm not against MPs who are not health professionals talking about health laws, but I'm against, first of all, lying, spitting and ignorance being arguments. We also heard a lot of lies from the feather of the former regime. I'll tell you what's true. The truth is that patients died of malignancies because they couldn't get in line for radiation, there were no linear accelerators. It is true that this government, this Ministry of Health, has left four linear accelerators in operation and thanks to this work of the waiting list, have been abolished. I'm not just saying this about waiting lists that are related to radiation. Waiting lists and lists for examinations related to other diseases or have been reduced, and some have been discontinued. Thanks to the work of this Ministry of Health and this government, over 4,000 medical workers were employed, given over 4,000 specializations. What's all this nonsense we hear here, when I have to say so, that cities can't be treated in public health institutions? We at state health institutions have a really good fit. What is said, and this is what Mr. Minister said that people from abroad are coming because of the cost of certain operations abroad to operate on us, is absolutely true. What are we talking about? Please, first of all, in the interest of the citizens who listen to us, to talk only to the arguments. A unique information system has been introduced. For the first time we can see the consumption of drugs...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25594	Bring it to the end, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25595	... We can see what the waiting lists are like, practically having insight into every health care facility. A total of 85 new sanitary vehicles have been purchased for the needs of health institutions. Do you know what happened when they were doing a tender for those sanity vehicles? A million euros were paid after that public call to someone who was supposed to deliver those vehicles. These vehicles have not been delivered to this day. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25596	Thank you, colleague Laketić. The word has been made by the People's Messenger George Komlenski, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25597	Thank you. Article 108(2) has been injured and in relation to Article 107, as the previous speaker, Mr Balsa Bozovic has made an offensive statement here on the Republic of Cuba, otherwise to the friendly state of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's inadmissible in this House. The fact that we've Googled, so our own country is being insulted in every way possible, is one thing, but to insult other countries, especially those that have always been friendly to the Republic of Serbia, had to at least be punished by warning. Otherwise, fears from which gentlemen cannot be cured because they have not fulfilled their obligation to their mentors and destroyed Serbia's Army, which also at today's session here, because the Serbian Army is again strengthening, stepping on its feet, strengthening its effectiveness, they are being treated in appropriate institutions, not at the pay phone of this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25598	Thank you. A colleague of Bozovic's? Do you have a report? (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. Who are you replicating? (Balsa Bozovic: Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25599	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. We're not in direct transmission anyway, so one replica up below. I've never been to an executive post, so I don't know how it was during some previous period. I don't know Tomica Milosavljevic. I know he was a minister in front of the G17+, as was called the URS, but it kind of marked a time that obviously didn't contribute to the citizens being satisfied. What's my finding in the sea of arguments on your side and on my side is why six years isn't a much better thing. You say you can't do anything overnight, but you can't say -- let me be a 20-year-old minister, so it'll be something better. So, citizens want that fear to end... When you say those emergencies, anyone who gets diagnosed is the fastest thing they can do, he won't wait for anything, and that's when he gets nervous and just doesn't want to think – you know, they just told me that I'm not an emergency just because I need a connection. Everyone then chases a relationship and says – you know what, give me, please, because he is the most urgent, of course, and to his loved ones. So, about this urgency, there's no rational anymore, and there's no explanation for why they're waiting, and there's no one else waiting. They think there's a connection everywhere, that there's corruption everywhere, that someone's got to put you over the line somewhere, that you have to pay for something. It's just like that, and you know it, of course, because you've been in this profession for years. What matters to us is, let's put money right away where money is most needed, where the results in the short time period will be twice as good.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25600	Thank you. Minister Lonchart.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25601	If it's not a problem, here's a country in the EU or wherever you want, where you've traveled still and America, and I don't know Canada, where it's possible what you're saying, I felt scared, I thought sick, I want to go to that doctor and see me and so on? Tell me if it exists somewhere and you have as much money as you want, and I don't know what insurance, not to mention the systems seriously, I don't know English, American or anything like that, where you can't even see a doctor in a picture. If you don't have the right insurance you can die, you get to the hospital, they look at you, you don't have that card right away, they say goodbye, pleasantly. Has that ever happened in Serbia? Has anyone in Serbia, an emergency said you won't be admitted, do you have a book, is it certified, isn't it certified? Do you have a country where there are no waiting lists? Is there a country like that? Tell me. In all these countries there are bigger waiting lists than in our country, which you were talking about earlier. So it's just facts. You must have traveled, you must have seen, you weren't interested probably, you're a healthy man, you didn't need it, but ask the people who live there. They can reach the doctors of general practice, but after that, to get to the specialist, it's for most of them a mental noun. Correct me if I said any of this wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25602	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25603	I thank the presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, so the only thing I would agree with the previous speaker on is the fact that we should present the situation on the ground, but objectively and realistically with facts and results, not with improvisation and untrueness. The following are the facts, by 2012, Serbian health care did not meet the evaluation criteria within the European Health Consumer Index, and when it met the criteria, it was the worst estimate. It is sufficient to indicate the state of health and how we found it. Serbian healthcare has progressed 12 places in the same index over the past two years and is no longer the worst in Europe. Serbia now holds 24 positions, is in front of eight EU countries and has brought the country's top progress in 2016. It has been said several times here, but it is not burned, because of Serbian citizens repeating that four accelerators have been released into work, that the waiting lists have been reduced by 50% and have been completely abolished somewhere, such as Kragujevac, and will soon be in Nis. In two years, about 4,000 medical workers were employed, more than 2,000 doctors. This is a very important data, with the approval of 4,000 specializations, that we are also improving the situation in Serbia's health system, but we are also reducing the outflow of doctors in foreign countries. The integration health system has been functioning since March of this year, the National Cole Centre has only had over 2,000 registered calls since its release and provides the possibility for the patient to schedule a check-up within 50 seconds. Over 100 new sanity vehicles. The budget fund to treat the disease for the last three years has been set aside... The conditions or injuries we cannot successfully treat in Serbia for the last three years have set aside more than 32m euros. Serbia has also renewed its application for Eurotransplant membership, for a gamma knife in neurosurgery in the first year, about 800 interventions have been carried out and these are the results of the health and health system and of you as a ministry in the past few years. I am sure that you can deal with these results absolutely in the coming period with the most important challenges in health, which are financial sustainability, availability of health care, demographic trends and the setting of patients in the healthcare center. Since I still have a few minutes left, and we don't have a TV feed, I'm gonna take the opportunity to ask you a few questions, Minister. You've talked here several times in this high house about equating private and state practice. In one of your previous arrivals in parliament, you pointed out that it is necessary for private institutions to deliver ID cards. Of them 1,300 registered, as far as I know, you said they were delivered by 400, is there any movement at this time? Since you have mentioned several times today that local self-government in some kind of decentralisation that has previously failed, made huge losses, did not invest in homes of health and hospitals in their environments, as far as I know, the data is that local self-government, municipalities and cities invest some 0.8% of their budgets at this point. Does the ministry consider increasing the percentage by the next financial year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25604	The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25605	I gotta tell you, it didn't get very far with those IDs, private ones. It's going a little slower. We have no problem integrating them into our system. We need to know what they're up to, we need to guarantee the patients we're gonna pay for, that that's where all the standards will be met. In particular, for areas where there were waiting lists and for those who were sensitive, we have no problem joining them into the Republic Fund and paying for all these services and doing so. It depends on these private health institutions. As for the second question, health care homes, I think it's best that they return under the auspices of the Republic. It didn't turn out so well for this model. For what reason? We paid everything for health care homes from the fund. What's all this? We paid salaries, maintenance and all the material and all the medicine for them. What's going on? The local self-government was appointed by directors, management and boards of directors and supervisory boards. You have a situation that in the same yard, in many cities you have a home of health and hospital. No one's talking to anyone. They have double nonmedical staff, not to mention what we found in hospitals, or in homes of health and health care institutions, more drivers, diphews and others, more than doctors and medical staff. Now, you have a situation that both the hospital and the health care home have their own services, nonmedical staff, who does the same job and doesn't need anything to do with it. It's much simpler, it's the same thing, it's done, it's done only by staff or from the hospital, or from the health home, and this other staff to replace it with medical staff, that we have more doctors and nurses. That's our idea. The second thing, they're so divided that, say, the doctor from the gynecologist's home, although it would be good for him, and for the patient, and for everyone, if he were on call at the hospital, he didn't do it, because he's a home of health, and that's local self-government, and the hospital's under a republican level and he's not doing it, and these people, for example, have a health problem, and that doctor would do well to be on duty, so he's not going to have a birth in the home of health. I could use doctors from the hospital to work in a health care facility, and everyone would benefit from that. Now, you have a situation that doesn't work at all. The director of home health with the hospital, of course, doesn't speak, then employees in one, the other, you know how it is already in the smaller middle. It's a problem that I think we need to solve and I'm offering a solution, which is to get the sub-cover back, so that it works out, that they function together, that they function as a team, that we take advantage of all the capacities that we have, and not that you have the capacity not to work, that you have the surplus here, and you have the gaps here, but you can't possibly fly over and do it to the benefit of the patient. These are your real problems in today's day.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25606	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25607	What's common to these three agenda points that we're having a single debate about, I'd say the smallest common multiple, is a word called standards or standards. It's all about standard. Since there will probably be no debate on this third item of the agenda in particular, I would first start at that point, which is some contract, some financial loan. It has three parts, now this third part, we're in debt for 50m euros, and since it represents some continuity, it's likely to be adopted. However, the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia stipulates a commitment that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, each year, informs the National Assembly that completed international contracts are being implemented, above all, financial contracts. A few months ago, I asked a parliamentary question asking for the most basic information to be delivered to me, as long as it came with the realisation of those contracts, because every contract has its own dynamics. What are the effects of these contracts, of course, I didn't get anything as an answer. Probably, when the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2018, again on that fantastic 3rd to 45th page, we will have all financial commitments on the basis of the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, but again we will not get the right information about what was spent, how much was spent, whether it was spent. It may not be correct that for this item of the agenda, under regular number 3, I open this topic, does not specifically refer to this bill, refers in general to what the ratio of those who have the means of borrowing, how they submit the reports and whether they even inform us. This is certainly what we need to know whether the dedicated consumption of these funds, which are the effects of these funds, is done, because each borrowing should have, above all, a basic task to meet a goal. These three contracts, or two previously concluded, and this third one, which is on the agenda today, must surely meet certain goals, health goals. On the occasion of this third item of the agenda, I have to say, somehow an issue has been imposed regarding this financial contract, the construction of the Clinical Centre in Nis, although nowhere in this contract has been mentioned that it is quite Nis. We've heard some data here. It's not 35, 38 years of work in that clinical center. It will probably be the largest area in the Republic of Serbia, because it will reach space from Chair Stadium, all the way to the Cele-Cula to the monuments, about a mile and 800 meters, the width of 400 to 300 meters, will include the old city hospital and military hospital and everything in between, so that across the road remains only the Medical Faculty and that dispenser for pulmonary diseases, but it will be one large continent. Well, I don't know a thing or two, 30 years ago I was involved in expropriation, then more land was being secured. I remember when the main collector was made, that it was transferred across the railroad towards Appleovac and there were construction technical problems from the beginning. That investment was run by the Nish municipality building directorate at the time, the Planning Institute, and then the hospital, and everyone was involved. If God gives it to end, one figure will be the cost of construction, and another figure, accounting, on the value of the basic funds will include all the investments for 38 years at that location in the function of building a large complex, why not tell the scientific and health center, in each respect of one of the largest centres, perhaps even in the Balkans. Of course, when it starts with an investment, the worst thing is that it doesn't end. Otherwise, the clinical center was four times canned to let you know, because there were no funds, and Nis ran one 30 years of three actions. The first action was the Clinical Center, the second action to give Nis the status of the city and the third action to move the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway since it went through the city. Here, you see, these two aren't finished yet, these two looking for money. The one that's raising your hand, it's over. But there was nothing wrong with Nishli that got the status of the city, nothing. Just before someone quoted one of your March or May statements this year, it was a good quote, all you said was true, and it ended. It wasn't the police that hired her, it was the state's security. They listened to everything and the contractors, and the supervisory authority, and those of all institutions, etc., and all that is as it is. But that's what you're gonna discuss. When it comes to investment in health care and in general when it comes to our health system, we really need new regulations that will in one principle and principle solve health care. First of all, the principle of economic and efficiency will be managed. Why am I saying this? We in our system have, at the head of that system, a ministry that should be, if I have to say so, a regulatory, supervisory body, it wouldn't be good to do anything other than that. The Health Insurance Fund, as the main boiler through which it is financed what we call state health care and health institutions primary, secondary and all other forms of protection, with a prominent centralism as a basic prerequisite. Why? We are too small a territory, with a small number of inhabitants and this capillary system by system – each lice is no good, and on one titty, it's no good. So when you do centralization, you'll have our support, because we know how it works and where all these problems can arise. So we're hoping to get those reports to see what you've done. You've had a chance to listen today to the two sides accuse each other, the former government and the current government. But everyone forgets that there is a connection between the former and the current authorities. They're the ones who were in the former government, so now they're in the current government. There's nothing good I can tell you about Tomica Milosavljevic and G17 plus. I can tell you the worst. We criticized them the most, because we knew they'd mutilate everything and mutilate everything. I'm sorry you're not stalking them. I'm sorry one of them didn't end up in jail. What you're verbally calling them now, it's shooting into thin air. Put that in jail. Run the procedure, go to jail, solve the problem. But you have a problem, which one of you will? The kid's with you. You have Zorana. How do you get around them? I don't think you should go around them either, and they were salting there. Well, you also have the president of the National Assembly, until a few years ago in the URS was. You didn't understand Balsha just now when he said he wasn't defending the previous regime, but he wanted to tell you, what does DS have to do with health care, when it's Tomica? You know how cocky he is, you guys are in college there. Who can talk to him? He's always right. Isn't that right, Mr. Djukic? Well, it is. He's in charge - it can't be different. And that's how he ruined the health care. Who did he learn from? It's a thousand euros free of charge from what he said. Is that right? Laugh, laugh, I'd arrest him. He's still saying -- well, I had to cheat on him to beat my Tadic. Don't remind us of any problems. He who is power, he solves problems. I'm in opposition, I have to blow your neck, criticize you to be better, remind you of your mistake. As for this second law on the so-called integrated health system, you brought it in 2014, so you changed in 2015. I'm not going to enter the original text of that law, I'm only going to pay attention to these two members you're changing. Obviously, the reason for the change is not in free access to information of public importance, but also in that other supplement - and protection of personal data. The main reason is to protect information about a person. What data? It's probably information about a person's health above all. You were in communication with Sabic, and he gave consent, and did not give consent. It's so with Shabic, you should know right away. He does not understand what he is saying when he comes to Maksim in the division. Nor did he understand you, nor did you understand him. Now, that's where we submitted the amendments. And Shabic was wrong and you were wrong. You were wrong not to give your soul an integrated information system. I fully agree, you want to follow the costs, you want to follow the way you treat, use the funds, etc. It's all right, but what about personality, the purpose of this integrated system is that when a man shows up with a doctor or an ambulance because he's sick and shows that chipped health book, a card, she goes into a reader and gets a complete history of what's wrong with his medical condition, which is in his medical records, whether he's being treated in public or in private. It's supposed to be protected. It's impossible to protect, let me tell you right away, as long as there's a unique mother number of 13 numbers. If the basic citizen record were a pin in four or six numbers randomly divided, as for mobile phones, then each would be protected. This is how you know the day, the month, the year of birth, the sex, even the county where he was born and where he was enrolled. You know, if you need to solve the question of who's the data collection handler and who's responsible for protecting personality data, it's the Personal Data Protection Act. He has to regulate it, not the Health Records Act. You're taking over what he's regulated. You don't even need that law to solve the issue of handlers, but sublaws. You've now got Milan Jovanovic Batut. On what grounds? Central Institute. Well, we also have three more institutions, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, and 20 more district institutions. It's all connected. How can you protect data when private practice pushes the book and gets all the information on personality, health data, medical data? And Batut should be responsible for private practice? Batut should be responsible for the health station in the village of Lower Razing where he entered and took the data. How is that possible? Well, you now have the situation that Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has been told that she is guilty of delivering some information that the public has learned, and it is a person. She delivered the data to the Ministry of Health. Paradoxically. Inapplicable. That is why we have submitted amendments to withdraw this second law, because this sweating of who is responsible should regulate the new Law on free access to information of public importance and protection of personal data. It's not a matter of health regulations. You, meanwhile, agree whether the system will be integrated, whether it will be unique, how it will work, what the keys will be, how every moment you know who came into access to the system to register, to appear with the code. Well, if something's going to happen, it's known individually by name and last name who did it. That's what this is about. That's why we have made amendments to this other law for you to withdraw it, because it's not time for this law to be regulated, it's completely different. As far as this first system is concerned, I think you made one big mistake, because the Croats translated it from English and it is no longer an EU language, I think it was three regulations and six of those directives. In the meantime, half of them aren't worth it, you know, just to distract you. Yes, three regulations and six directives. So then you translated from Croatian and you got a text that no one alive could understand. Absolutely no one will be able to understand. And as many mistakes as there are inside, let me tell you right now, this medical law has nothing to do with medicine. It has to do with the transport of goods, the production of goods, with competent state authorities guaranteeing the quality of certain products. It has nothing to do with the medical profession. There's absolutely no touch point. Why you took him off his meds, I don't get it. I don't think you needed to separate it. Why? Because it is the same legal fate and medicine and medical means, as the Croat brothers would say, is a medical product. And as for those of us who do these things, it's just a commodity. It is specific in its own way regarding the quality of the goods and standards for the production of the goods. Furthermore, I think you've made a big mistake not knowing enough that you're not so independent in the standardisation of medical means. There is also asked the Institute of Standards as a reference institution, not only in the part of those medical means that use electricity or have some assemblies, but also in relation to other medical means that occur to us. When you go into a doctor's office, all that's not a cure is a medical medicine. It's so wide and no wonder you say 37, and maybe thousands of these products exist. And, please, it is not true that there are EU standards at all. They just stole the standards that exist in health care. Much better standards than those found in directives and these regulations are on all sides of the world, absolutely all sides of the world. If someone thinks this law is passed because our legal persons would make medical supplies and that these funds go into export, let them talk home, don't talk here. Medical resources have today become goods that are being produced serially. What unfortunately happened? Their serial production didn't bring down the price per product unit. She didn't go down, and there's fierce competition, biting each other. Furthermore, the bigger the problem is... Arsic, didn't I overstep?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25608	Thirty-five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25609	Done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25610	Thank you for 35 seconds. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25611	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I will give just a few suggestions and one more aspect of the Law on Medical Resources, given that I spoke affirmably of it and pointed out that it is very good and positive in the light of compliance with European integration and European standards. To remind my colleagues that today's most modern medicine is located in the West, in the EU, in America, certainly not in some eastern areas, which some here like to promote. I would refer to the part about advertising medical resources and promoting medical resources, given that we mentioned this part a little today. For the sake of the public and for the sake of the profession, I would like to stress once again that this ministry has really done a lot for the profession, for doctors, primarily by working on their education, continuous education, training, employment and I agree that a new generation of young people are being created who are otherwise thinking medically, protocolally, in the way of uniforming, providing health services, which is very important at this point. The way of promotion in the professional public is decidently and clearly defined by this law, as well as how the professional public can be informed of a particular medicine. Of course, this is done by expert associates and they undertake to inform the doctor of the medicine and its side effects in a very specific, clear and unequivocal way. In every way, these regulations and this law reduce the possibility of manipulation or any abuse of medical associates, i.e. the abuse of doctors by medical associates. We stressed today that free samples can be given, which will, of course, be marked as free. We said big pharmaceutical houses, research houses, could be sponsoring medical events, medical gatherings, and that's not bad. Finally, in Serbia, there are certain professional events, inventoryes, and we have to boast a little. We have at our Clinical Center several professors who are the presidents of boards, large European associations, such as Prof. Seferovic, who is the chairman of the board for professional insufficiency and the highest quality educational professional meetings are held in Belgrade. We, if we make the right use of pharmaceutical homes, can really come up with quality knowledge. Not all doctors travel and do not visit these practically, unfortunately, I agree that it is not high-quality and your proposal is excellent to make it public and transparent, but we cannot do this kind of possibility, which is practically and foreseen by continuous education to throw out or bypass. We are today conducting evidence-based medicine, very soon we will have all the protocols on which the Ministry is really hasty and very busy, to protocolly resolve, to uniformise therapy in all parts of the country, and this law is precisely contributing to it, as are these conventions, as are all the assemblies. This law is in this sense extremely good, which dozes the possibility, which clearly defines what the sponsor of a particular lecture can do. In any case, he can choose the contents of what he surrenders. He can't change the content of science and that's something that's clear and decadently defined by this law. Also, he can't even be in a room where there's talk of a particular drug and its characteristics. So this law is practically a doctrine of the possibility of corruption, and in this field it's really extremely good. This is exactly what I was talking about in this regard about European laws and European legislation, which is what is being considered about all steps and all possibilities. Can't an associate, an expert associate, give something to a doctor, and he can't prescribe a cure. It can't, it's forbidden by this law. In addition, he can only verify clear information about a particular drug and point even to unwanted effects as clearly and decadently indicated. Of course, there are many things mentioned here, and I'm sorry that in this later part of it came out of some unprofessional communication, and we've heard all kinds of incomparable things here. I have to do it for the public and for the profession to say that this society's most important doctors are clinicians. Professors do well, but doctors clinicians carry a health care system and a response in all practically institutions. Our institutions are open. In our institutions, anyone can expect to get a quality answer. What I'm saying is that the quality of a surgeon is not determined by his titles, but by his manuality, by his willingness, by his training, by his fundamentality, by his preparation for self-intervention, and by his mastery of certain techniques. It's worth a surgeon, in this case a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25612	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Branko Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25613	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SNS supports the proposed health laws, which, as well as other laws that have passed the public debate, will form a pillar of health reform in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of the Medical Assets Act will fully comply with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with EU rules in this area. This law regulates the area of medical resources exclusively in human medicine, while the area of medical resources in veterinary medicine is regulated by a special law, which is also a practice in EU member states. The separation of regulations governing medical resources from the regulations governing medicinal products has also been carried out. Conditions are being created to encourage and conduct more clinical studies in healthcare institutions, while reducing decision-making deadlines by the Medicines and Medical Devices Agency are encouraging the development of medical science, while patients are being provided with modern innovative therapy. The adoption of this law provides better business for domestic medical producers and for the placement of their products in EU countries, but also for other countries of the world, and thus for the development of domestic economy, as well as for the employment of highly educated personnel. This law prevents the entry of counterfeited and patients of insecure medical means both on the market and into health institutions in the Republic of Serbia. The Law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health is rounding the process of implementing an integrated health information system that is the assumption of the introduction of an electronic recipe and electronic cardboard in all health institutions in the Republic of Serbia, as the project has already been implemented in Belgrade. The adoption of the Law on Confirming the Financial Contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank will implement projects to build clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis. So, those projects that the previous government has been pulling since 2008, through various deadlines, inaccurate contracts, the absence of serious late-onset pens, as well as spending most of the funds on repairs and control of projects, as well as on countless construction sites. The adoption of these three laws will continue the reform policy of the Ministry of Health, which is seen in the reconstruction and renovation of health institutions in the Republic of Serbia destroyed and mutilated by 2012. In the reconstruction of sophisticated equipment in the establishment of a fund for the treatment of patients abroad, in the employment of doctors and nurses, in the assignment of specializations, as well as numerous other investments, which are aimed at better and better quality health care for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, as an example of good practice, I will point out that the cooperation of the Ministry of Health and the Municipality of Nova Varoš in which the SNS holder of the government was invested from 2012 to 2017 over 80 million dinars in the purchase of six sanitary vehicles, in the renovation and adaptation of buildings, in the construction of parking space, in the opening of the service of physical medicine, in the reconstruction of the heat, in the opening of the pharmacy, as well as in the acquisition of numerous medical equipment. Dear Minister, I will only inform you that in the day of the vote, the SNS will support all three proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-15-0.u25614	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
