ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14256	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 152 MPs attend the meetings. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. Put the cards back in, it turns out there's no one here. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 136 MPs present, or 137, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For today, only Member Jasmina Karanac has sent word that she has been prevented from attending this session. We continue to determine the agenda of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure, we are moving to a decision on proposals for supplementing the agenda. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. Does Gordana Comic want to explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14257	Thank you. Here, in a few weeks' time since 13 March 2017, we've been the anniversary of the rescue mission of a helicopter, which, by word of word, requested by the Minister of Defense at the time, in which seven people lost their lives. All that time since that tragic day, I ask the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the helicopter accident in which people were killed. Not to mention the campaign just before the accident in which people are unimaginably defamed, of them slowly and used for a campaign that is inappropriate to any decent society. The investigations carried out by the military commissions, the disciplinary sentences received by the two generals, the prosecution that said it was still working, all those papers that were available to us, were left without answering the two key questions that were necessary for justice for victims and that no one else would ever think to boast through procedures, through subordination and through rules and regulations that apply to everyone in the entire public sector and to everyone in the country. The first question left without an answer – from whom did the defence minister receive information that it was necessary to order a rescue mission? Who gave him the information? On what basis did he make such a decision? The answer to that question is nowhere, the speculation about the answer is inappropriate, and this congregation has a request ahead of it to find that answer. That's the key, who told him - get the helicopter ready and save him. The second question that was left unanswered is - who was changing the flight plan of the helicopter? Sporadic information on the use of mobile phones during the flight and rumors that the flight has been changed does not have a foothold in what results of the military commission investigation are available. Both of these questions would benefit everyone and those who think that the death of seven people should be covered up and can be covered up by those who think they can rose up pilot Omer Mehic and those who think that the perception of the campaign is above every truth, above every human life. It would be useful for us today to vote that the committee of inquiry is established and that such tragedies never happen again to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14258	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 31 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. You have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which found that the death of Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenovic was the case set out in Article 88 paragraph 8 of the Law on the selection of MPs, and suggests that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, establish the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (8) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office ended before he was elected, MP Konstantin Arsenovic, on the day of his death. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2016. Does he want the word of Ambassador Bozovic? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Does he want to explain his request? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be completed with the dots – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities, the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district, and the fact of the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Miojicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14259	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, is it possible that the ruling majority of any amendments and addition of the DS law have not been accepted for a year. Because you're only doing as you're told, that's why we have what's happening on the street today. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the DS amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, because the life of all citizens, no matter where they live, is first. From 2012 to 2017, as SNS, you introduced that municipalities and cities are in the collapse phase. You took away five billion dinars once, and so far you've taken away 50 billion dinars from them in five years. That's why you have a situation in the King's mayor of the SNS opening a traffic light, the President of the Voždovac municipality opening a pedestrian crossing, and the Mayor of Novi Sad opens a bicycle parking lot. Therefore, the DS specifically proposes to return five billion dinars to local self-government, i.e. The citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, taken from them by the SNS. Since you are no longer advocating the borders of Karlobag, Karlovac, Ogulin, Virovitica, but, as you say, you are advocating European values, it took us from the DS 25 years to teach you what European values are, that this is good for both you and the citizens of Serbia, to see how it is in European countries. The European Charter, which Serbia ratified in 2007, against which you were then dressed in a railing of radicals, says each municipality must have political, administrative and financial independence. No local self-government in Serbia has financial, political independence and against it, if we want good to local self-government, if we want to decentralisation Serbia, we must all fight together. In the EU, half of the budget revenues go to municipalities and cities, while in the Republic of Serbia the situation is much worse. Only 10.2% of total budget revenues belong to municipalities, cities and AP Vojvodina. All other income goes to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Since 2012, you have taken away 50 billion dinars from municipalities and cities, and I therefore propose these amendments and additions to the law so that you do not share the son of Tomislav Nikolic or Rasim LJajic by grandmother or uncles, but that all local self-government have a balanced regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14260	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 28, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Miojicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14261	Thank you. We haven't worked in a long time, and the system can't get used to it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Social Protection Act is contained in the provision of Article 97.8) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party proposes a concrete solution. The Democratic Party suggests providing all students whose parents do not work with free transportation from home to school, providing them with free snack and providing them with free textbooks. Unfortunately, we have the data of 50,000 children who are covered by primary and secondary education in Serbia every day hungry because parents cannot provide them with a snack during the day. On the other hand, we have criminals like Zvonko Veselinovic garnering millions of contracts in co-operation with the government led by the Serbian Progressive Party. This is not allowed in Serbia in 2017. It is not Serbia he wants, which the Democratic Party is fighting for. Unfortunately, we had an example of a boy from Moll, who took his own life because he couldn't secure a ride from home to school and left the third grade of high school in Vienna because he couldn't buy a ticket from home to school. Unfortunately, these things happen while the minister in charge of this portfolio, Alexander Vulin, bathes at the most expensive hotel in Serbia, Belgrade, in Hayat. This must not be allowed in 2017. In 2015, the share of children in Serbia's total population was only 17.3%, which places us in extremely old countries. That is why the Democratic Party is proposing another concrete proposal. The Democratic Party proposes that all young married couples who cannot achieve their offspring be provided with free out-of-body fertilisation on the cost of the state. Serbia is the leader of the region, as you say, advances, but Serbia is unfortunately a leader in the region at the risk of poverty. Here we are the first and the unhindered in Europe. We can build bridges, we can build roads, but we cannot allow our children to be hungry in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14262	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying, for -28, against - no one with abstentions is there. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14263	Madam Chairman and honourable MPs, after many years, unfortunately, we have both police and military on the street, and the police and the army on the street, because they are protesting because their daily is 150 dinars. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this Police Act is contained in the provision of Article 97(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the DS proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act, because of the exceptional situation in which the members of the MUP are present. The situation is so bad that SNS members of the MUP first cut their salaries, and then SNS reduced their diaries. A journal for those who risk their lives by providing us and our border and our country with 150 dinars. A member of the police who had to fight last night, securing the life of Belgraders and all Serbian residents on a derby, can buy a muffin for a 150 dinar daily, an empty muffin and a glass of yogurt. Two key points of change are the addition of the Police Act. The first is that the ministry must determine the needs of a system that will employ young, educated and educated students who finish the Police Academy. Today, unfortunately, all these students who finish the Police Academy don't have guaranteed work in the MUP system. We need to have compatibility between that number that's being received at the Police Academy and the number that's needed to work at the MUP, so that the kids who finish the Police Academy have a guaranteed job. The second point is that the provision of Article 172, point 2 of the Police Act, is to bring down the presummation of innocence, and I suggest that it be deleted. This means that against any member of the MUP any citizen can file criminal charges and he is automatically away from work until the process is completed. We know, unfortunately, what state our courts are in, how long the proceedings are going to take, so we suggest that Article 172 point 2 be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14264	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—27 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Does he want to explain? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14265	Thank you. I don't know, I think I've asked you over 50 times to pass this bill. It refers only to one thing, that a criminal code amongst crimes that do not go out of date includes the crime of stealing babies. I don't know anymore how you're not ashamed of Serbia entering the fourth year since it had to implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling, which ordered Serbia to solve this problem. For four years, Serbia has been late in implementing this verdict. For four years, parents who have stolen children, who have experienced the worst thing that can happen to someone in their lives, cannot come to justice because you don't even want to do this little thing, and the law that you have proposed, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed, these parents who have stolen children for the law say that if adopted in this form in which the government has proposed it will prevent them from ever knowing what happened to their children. In the law that you have proposed, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, these parents, dear colleagues and colleagues, are offered to give up in exchange for 10,000 euros to find out what happened to their child. I ask colleagues and colleagues who have children to ask themselves if they would give up their child for 10,000 euros, because that is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia offers to these people who have stolen children. As if it wasn't enough that they lived when it happened to them, you spit in their faces, then insult them, then humiliate them, and believe me that no one who hasn't met with them has any idea of what these people are going through, what humiliations they're going through, and now they're being further humiliated by the National Assembly, who should be working in their interest, and now you're humiliating them, which some of them probably voted for, in the hope that you'll sit here and work for them. Instead, you sit there and wait for the president to press the bells, so you know how to identify yourself about whether the crime of stealing babies can become obsolete or not. That's why I'm asking the president to press the bells, because obviously it's the only way that some of us here remember they're MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14266	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -49, no one, with abstentions, voted 142 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14267	Thank you. This is another law that I have been proposing for a long time to get on the agenda, and in the meantime we heard some mysterious bill has appeared that has been prepared by the ministry and is likely to be discussed. What's interesting about this law is that it's the first law that has united and employed in education and those who deal with education and the National Educational Council and people who think about education, write about education, deal with education, and all agree that the draft law, as the ministry has imagined, should disappear from our lives as soon as possible. The draft law prepared by the ministry will bring our perpetrators back to the end of the 19th century. Everything in life has changed for us. The mobile phones we use have changed, the cars we use have changed, the apartments we live in, the way we live, and only the doers look the same as 150 years ago, only our school looks the same as 150 years ago, and only our students look the same as 150 years ago and our teaching method just looks the same as 150 years ago. The only thing that's changed is that teachers and teachers are no longer allowed to share some packs with children, and the rest is all the same. These kids sit in schools, learn by heart what they're asked to do, get a grade just for how they remembered what they were told. They make up people who come out of school like people who don't think, who don't know that they're critical of the world around them and think for themselves very often, they don't even know the things they've been trained for. They are experimented on through various prime ministers' fascination with dual education. They are educated for jobs that do not exist and hence your big surprise, Mr. Martinovic's surprise who cannot understand that there are young people in Serbia who think for themselves. I don't know, President, have you noticed that for several days, two weeks, some young people have been gathering outside the Serbian Parliament who have some demands from this assembly? We have proposed that these proposals, which are the subject of consideration of the congregation, be placed on the agenda. Some of them, contrary to what you said in today's media, you can put them on this session. These include a proposal for your shift. Our Rules of Procedure allow him to be included in a session that is under way. Please do to everyone...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14268	Thank you for taking the time to explain the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, and for explaining to me how the Rules of Procedure, which you yourself have brought, seems. So, I assure you, I will respect the procedure. I'm sorry, I'm most sorry, that you can't put that item on the agenda at this session. I can't wait to discuss your proposals and demands. There is no citizen of Serbia who can't wait any longer than I can to discuss it. You've made a lot of procedural mistakes, and you, and other applicants. You obviously don't know what a regular procedure is and how many days it takes when you put up with something. It's 15 days, a respected colleague, and it falls on Saturday, the 29th of this month. If you want, can we do 29, 30 or 1 May? I'd be happy to do that for you, think about it. According to an emergency procedure, there is no debate, some others have submitted it, I think MP Radulovic. There's no discussion about it, but it just decides whether or not it's going to be on the agenda, and since I have an extraordinary desire to meet you and discuss it, I'm going to schedule a special session with these agenda points. So, nothing else, and I ask you to respect that and to discuss only these points of the agenda and what I have done to honor this Parliament, and how some others have contributed. So I'm not running that session. I'll ask one of the vice presidents from other parties to do it. So no one in the SNS is going to be running that session and you'll all be happy, hopefully, with the way you run the session. So, a little patience and think, if you want, for May 1st, it's a holiday of work, we can mark and have that session that we're going to discuss. So, Saturday 29 is the first time you can put it on the agenda. I would ask you, the Rules of Procedure are likely to apply to everyone, and your request says that I do not respect the Rules of Procedure, a regular procedure 15 days from the day of submission. You filed on April 13, 29th. An emergency procedure means no arguments, yes or no votes. So, it would never have happened on the agenda if it wasn't for my decisions, my colleagues respected it from the SNS, all MPs from the ruling majority respect that decision of mine to help you come to the agenda, because you're not enough and Serbian citizens haven't voted to the extent that you can decide. I respect the Rules of Procedure, because a colleague jumped out of the reasoning of the agenda and set off on something like I wasn't going to be on the agenda. It'll be on the agenda. There will be a special session only with these points of the agenda. If you want, it'll be May 1st, 29th, 30th, 1, 2, whatever you want? I put this draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the basis of the education and education system. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, has voted for – 30, for – 30; 159 MPs have not voted. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14269	Thank you. As you humiliate everyone in this country, there really is no profession that the SNS has not humiliated, so there is no way to make a fair living that the SNS has not disfigured. During this break of ours, which was likely to please Alexander Vukic in order to eliminate any criticism, so that nothing interfered with him in his presidential-premiary and who knows what kind of campaign, began what we warned about when the Agricultural Land Law was adopted, i.e. the shameful distribution of the best agricultural land in all local self-governments in Serbia, selected business partners of the municipality president and selected businessmen who were at the mercy of the SNS. According to the law that you have adopted, and whose changes I am proposing now, it is possible for each local self-government to assign a third of the best agricultural land in each municipality to some selected people, selected firms, selected legal entities, selected businessmen, tycoons, business partners, godfathers, brothers and relatives, no longer known to any people close to the SNS without any procedures, no criteria, no competition, and no plan whatsoever what these people on that land should do. It started happening all over Vojvodina. Of course, as we have warned, these business partners of yours take the best agricultural land in every municipality, and farmers, farmers and paors remain exclusively the agricultural land for which your business partners were not interested. With this bill and the DS, we suggest that some rules be made that these people must meet in order to get a third of the state-owned agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia. I'm not saying, let's say this for missing babies where I absolutely understand why you don't want to pass the law. With this, I am absolutely clear why you do not want to accept the law, because it would oblige your business friends and impose some rules on them anyway. It is obvious that for anyone close to you, there are no rules in Serbia, so what would happen to those who devastate agricultural land in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14270	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted 159 MPs for – 27. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on textbooks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14271	Thank you, President. Another set of educational laws that harms our children unmistakable and I think that of all the bad things that SNS does in our society, what you do in education may leave even irreparable consequences. The law on textbooks brought here two or three years ago was brought under some kind of pressure after the recognition of Minister Verbic, if they remember colleagues who were MPs at the time, and he repeatedly proposed and withdrew the law by claiming that he was exposed to some kind of pressure. He then proposed a law in the same text, likely able to reach an agreement with those pressurers. So it is obvious that a law is passed that only individual private publishers are satisfied, and the result of that law is that our children learn from incorrect, outdated, overweight, overpriced and poor textbooks. This Law allowed material errors to be found in our textbooks. The law allowed our parents to continue to believe that teachers, corrupt teachers whom you have led to the edge of existence are the primary culprits for not mastering good material. This Law produced that you limited the number of pages to textbooks, without modifying curricula and programs, which only ended with publishers reducing the font or removing some photos or images or illustrations from textbooks, while the material remains too difficult, unnecessary, impractical and being knowledge that these children do not need at all. As a result, teachers today talk about how a new law on textbooks should be passed. The textbooks are a basic teaching tool. This is why parents who are too expensive for their textbooks today, who are concerned about the fact that the textbooks are too heavy. And I don't know where we need to talk about this if not in this Assembly, if not this opportunity, and if we don't need it to be a common goal of having textbooks that will create practical knowledge in children, that will allow them to think with their heads and that will allow those children from school to come out as people ready to live, and not as people who, at any moment, will be insulted by the prime minister as incompetent, lazy, unemployed and people who are just waiting for something to be given to them, and they don't want to do anything for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14272	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—27, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14273	I know you don't like me to mention them, Mrs. Gojkovic, but those young people you may have noticed have been gathering for two weeks in front of this building where we work, among other things, have some requirements regarding higher education. Just to tell you, you're wrong when you think you're the person who cares most about talking about your shift. There, you tens of thousands of people outside the Assembly every day asking to discuss your shift...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14274	You'll be kind, about higher education. I broke the Rules of Procedure once and I let you talk about what you wanted to talk about. Would you be so kind as to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14275	Yes, among other things, they're plagued by things about higher education. They are plagued by the false PhDs of the police minister, mayor of Belgrade, governor of the NBS, who are now interested in where the outgoing president of the Republic has earned his degree, in which he graduated. They are troubled by the fact that their teachers, some of them being blackmailed, are on some sort of list that supports Alexander Vukic's candidacy. They are troubled by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has pushed this Assembly, and you, among other things, have made it possible for that to happen, and colleagues and colleagues, all of your honor, to adopt laws that prohibit their employment when they finish their colleges tomorrow. They're struggling to get out of college so they don't know anything about what they were being trained for. They are troubled by the fact that those who work at school tomorrow have not had a day of education, pedagogical education or pedagogical psychology or teaching methods or anything like that. They are troubled by the fact that the state is run by people with acquired diplomas, which is obvious that they can't be hired without any connection, which is a ban on employment for some, and for some, just as we've seen, it doesn't apply. They are troubled by the fact that you insult their intelligence every day by insulting them, humiliating them and telling them that they are incompetent, lazy, stupid, that they are just waiting for something to be given to them, that they do nothing of themselves and want to do nothing for their lives, but wait for the Prime Minister to give them something of his mercy. That's the problem. You say, Mrs. Gojkovic, you'll let us discuss it. How can I not know who to let them protest? You have nothing to let anyone protest. It's their right, and they understand it despite the education you're making and despite the holes you're pushing into every day because there are young people who won't agree to it and there are those who want to fight for themselves despite all your efforts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14276	Thank you. I've allowed you again to give myself equal rights. So, the request was made by Bojan Pajtic, about my age, I don't believe he's a student. So the student did not light the grain, but Bojan Pajtic, an MP who has not been here since 8 August 2016. Just so you're not mistaken. Nobody talks about students here, but Bojan Pajtic, and we'll talk about them at that session, of course, and we'll talk about the promoters. (Vojislav Seselj: What grain? What grain – and of course we will talk about it in that session, MP. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – one, abstention – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. He's not here, Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act. He's not here, Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the full freedom of minors. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of the independent state of Croatia against Serbs and Jews and Roma during World War II. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14277	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, who are again following the work of the recently abolished National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is being assisted by God to all and Christos Easter. I think that on the agenda we have an extremely important topic that we owe as a people that here, in the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we finally put it on the agenda. It is, therefore, a resolution on the genocide of the independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma in World War II. It is simply amazing and I express the surprise and astonishment that we cannot at least reach a consensus on this matter and reach an agreement and put this item on the agenda for consideration and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia condemns the genocide that was committed over Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia more than 70 years ago. Believe it or not, respected colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia, never one political and state-owned institution of Serbia, not a single legislative body, not one of the highest state bodies in this country discussed the issue of genocide against Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia. What do we expect, then, and how do we think to protect the Serbs in Croatia at this time if we haven't protected the truth about the Serb death in the Independent State of Croatia more than 70 years ago. It's just amazing and it's really amazing that you don't even have so much hearing to support this correct initiative that I'm sure you're all personally supporting, but you can't vote to put it on the agenda just because this proposal comes from the lines of the opposition. This is what it says very precisely about you, you will vote against every opposition proposal just because it comes from the opposition's ranks, regardless of whether this proposal makes sense, whether it is correct and whether it may be extremely important, as I would say, an extremely important proposal for a resolution on genocide against Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia. Is it possible, can you explain to any SNS or SPS voter that it is irrelevant for you to find a resolution on genocide against Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia on the agenda? That's why you're so powerless today to defend the interests of Serbs left in the Republic of Croatia, because we haven't even cleared up together with what happened 70 years ago. Once again, please, if I should beg you or do not know in any other way to beg your support that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will finally be defined according to the genocide of Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14278	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 26, against – no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14279	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would first of all like to thank you, if I have seen well, five MPs from the ranks of the authorities who have supported the previous proposal to put a resolution on genocide against Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia on the agenda and to do them all the honors of thinking with their heads. This is an extremely important bill concerning the care of the oldest population in Serbia, about our pensioners. In fact, it is our duty to worry about harmonising pensions with the cost of living. With your amendments to the existing law, when you were cutting pensions in Serbia, you also abolished the provision of a law that clearly said that pensions must be aligned at an annual level with price increases, with the cost of living. With your actions, you questioned the economic security of the pensioners and the oldest citizens of Serbia. For years you haven't matched the cost of life they have with the amount of their pensions. You even took their pensions, so whoever has a pension of 30,000 dinars for these three years, you took more than 30,000 dinars for three years, you took more than 80,000 dinars for those three years, and you took more than 120,000 dinars for those who make an example, and you took over 160,000 dinars for these three years. So not only did you preserve their economic security by harmonising the cost of your life with your pension, but you even robbed them. I would like to point out this opportunity to another important thing that we mention here, which is that you have practically taken over, taken over the board of directors of the PIO Fund, you have taken over most of our board of directors and representatives of pensioners, and today you have entered the privatisation process of one of our remaining strategic and natural resources, which are our healing spas, these are our rehabilitation centres, special hospitals, which are undoubtedly the property of the PIO Fund. To inform you about this, there is currently a lawsuit against the state of Serbia with the intention of preventing the sale of PIO funds, 27 disputes in 15 cases confirmed the ownership of the PIO fund, and 12 cases still have disputes. So, you're not the owners of our medical spas, you don't have the right to sell and privatize them, the owner of the PIO fund, and that's one of the ways in which you can compensate for what you robbed the pensioners – from the profits of the assets that the PIO Fund has and its position as a domestic economic interest. Let's stop the pensioner robbery, that's what the idea of this amendment and the addition of the existing law is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14280	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find the proposal not accepted. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the events during the 2016 election process, from the day of the call of the republics' elections until the day of publication of the final results of the elections. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14281	Dear citizens of Serbia, if we had formed in this largest state home, which had been abolished for a month and a half during the presidential elections, a assembly polling committee to determine the truth about election irregularities in last year's snap republican elections would not have repeated these electoral irregularities in the recently held presidential elections. So everything we pointed to a year ago has been repeated in these elections. I am very pleased that the ruling majority has repeatedly rejected our request to form a assembly survey committee that would establish the truth about electoral irregularities. That is the most important proof to me that I am right, because if you had nothing to hide, you would be involved in forming a congregation survey committee. Of course, I will remind the public that the SNS in the image of Aleksandar Martinovic, the head of the ruling party's parliamentary group, himself suggested the formation of a parliamentary polling committee, and then voted against its own proposal, which best says how scared they are of the truth and how afraid they are of establishing the truth about election thefts, irregularities, manipulations and pranks, which are served from the election cycle to the cycle. Of course, starting with an unscheduled voter list in which many dead souls who vote for SNS have continued with a huge media imbalance and scandalous media darkness in which we live, in which one presidential candidate of the government had more time on the media than all the other presidential candidates combined, in which there was no debate or confrontation of candidates or any political shows that, after all, had long been abolished in this country. This should, of course, add to the silence of the Republic Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which has abolished itself or, of course, the scandalous behaviour of the majority in RIK, which, once again year after year, provides an anti-constitutional guidance on how to vote on KIM, which has been rejected by the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia since 16 June 2014, when two members of this manual, members of 9 and 10 are declared illegal. So, only on the basis of this illegal anti-constitutional instruction on how to vote on KIM and these presidential elections should be annulled and repeated, as RIK cannot be above the Serbian Constitutional Court. If the Serbian Constitutional Court said it was illegal, elections cannot be held in such a way. So it's clear that these presidential elections were actually as irregular and stolen as you tried a year ago. That's why I don't recognize the results of these presidential elections and that's why I don't recognize Alexander Vukic as president.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14282	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote for the vote - 17, against - no one, abstentioned - voted 17, did not vote 160. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group asked for the agenda of the session to be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary arrangement of the way of pension payment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14283	Dear Chairman, our support is not falling but rather growing because you see a huge number of young people. So you laugh, you respected representatives of the ruling majority got 300,000 votes less than in the elections just a year ago, and young people go out in tens and tens of thousands on the streets and support what I'm saying here in the Serbian Parliament. What is very important to me to point out about this legislative proposal to stop the validity of the thief's and nadal law on pension cuts in Serbia is that what I am saying is supported by many of the oldest citizens in Serbia. I would like to express my admiration and my bowing to two truly exceptional union organisations, the Association of Retired Unions of Serbia and the Association of Retired Military People Unions that I highly respect, as well as the unions of the military and police who have raised their voice against these authorities. So, against this government, it's not just me or all of us sitting here in opposition benches, but associations and unions of pensioners, educational workers, soldiers, police officers, young students and citizens who don't rest and who don't want to live in a lie that you turned the state of Serbia into. You robbed the pensioners and you won't be able to hide it. We are in partnership with the Association of Retired Unions of Serbia and with the Association of Unions of Retired Military Persons of Serbia have passed this law into the assembly procedure and are looking for two very important things for our oldest citizens. Number one, we're asking for the abolition of the pension-reduction laws that are still going on even though his name says it's the Act on the temporary way of paying off pensions. This temporary way of robbing pensioners by SNS, SPS, PUPS and all other satellites and servants of Aleksandr Vukic has been going on for three years. So we're looking for an end to the validity of this burglary law that robs pensioners in Serbia. The second, even more important thing, we ask that pensioners be compensated for being robbed and that everything you took from them over the next three years be returned to them in the next three years and that the state of Serbia shows that no one has the right to rob a legitimate, constitutionally guaranteed acquired asset called pension, which you have robbed of your oldest citizens. Shame on you, gentlemen, for your progressors, socialists and buds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14284	I'm putting you to a vote, please don't insult your colleagues. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Does Ambassador Stankovic want a word? No or she's not here. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be completed by the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. Does Ambassador Goran Bogdanovic want a word? He's not here. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Excuse me, the word has been made by MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14285	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, 109 days in 2017, the Assembly should finally begin its work without a single law on the agenda, a law that should change for the better lives of Serbian citizens. Today morning, 109 days or 50 days since the start of the regular session, opposition MPs, exclusively the opposition, try to put draft laws on the agenda to improve citizens' lives. Citizens should know that the government of the Republic of Serbia is not doing its job, is not sending laws. The last law sent by the government of the Republic of Serbia was sent to the Assembly on 16 December. This law, which I propose today, that we put on the agenda, the government of the Republic of Serbia, despite promises, has not been sent to the Assembly for more than two years, with the reason that a working group should be formed to comply with the bill's proposals. The working group in the government's mandate, which was elected in 2014, worked for a year and a half, and then, according to the minister, when they finally came to the bill, new elections were called. We had those elections a year ago, and the government didn't come with this proposal for another year. But the campaign is full of the mouth of the government's competent minister and members of the government about how this government takes care of families with children and ways to help them. What's the truth? The truth is, this law hasn't been changed for over five years now for six years. It is true that today in Serbia 25% of families, according to the World Bank and Eurostat statistics, live at risk of poverty. It is true that one third of young people today in Serbia, and that is the highest rate in Europe, lives at risk from poverty. And this government has absolutely no solution to offer them, so that this situation will change. Long-term life in poverty leads to isolation, in young people leaving school, turning crime and destroying their future. It's amazing to me that I don't know which time I'm already putting this bill on the table, which even the minister in charge didn't say was a bad thing in it, but only that his working group hasn't yet prepared the law, and does this mean, if you don't put it on the agenda today, that we're going to wait for a new government, and then maybe, but it's probably not going to get this law either.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14286	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for – 26 MPs, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Excise Act. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14287	All these laws that you are citizens of, above all today, but unfortunately, my fellow MPs are not paying attention to what we are trying to put on the agenda, they should bring a better deal to the citizens of Serbia. The opposition MPs also perform their Constitution and the law defined the function of adopting and proposing the laws and control of the government, but only to the extent permitted by Parliament's leadership. Unfortunately, we don't have those options. I will also say a few sentences about this law, although I often ask myself a question – how much does this all make sense and how right are those people who have been protesting here for more than two weeks in front of parliament and asking for things to change in Serbia? The Excise Act, as suggested, proposes introducing a special burden on sweetened drinks. Sweet drinks have been identified by the World Health Organization as one of the causes of today's obesity epidemics in the world, and there is, unfortunately, also in Serbia. In fact, 25% of children in Serbia today are obesity. The obesity of young people, first of all, later in their lives creates various diseases, shortens life. The World Health Organization has also proposed that a measure like this be introduced in country recommendations. The measure has been introduced in many countries in Europe, the world, the environment and results. The intention of taxing these drinks is not only to supplement the budget, but to find means of education, first of all, young people, about the need for a healthy diet, as well as to allow, according to our proposal, that young people in schools have a healthy meal a day. This amount is not large and I believe that we would not be reduced revenues that producers of sweetened drinks make. I am sorry and I understand why this proposal, although the finance minister when we first told him about it said he supported this idea, is clear to me why the government did not ultimately support it and why this proposal was not found in the amendments and additions to the legislation proposed by the government at the end of the year, and the reason I saw it at the "Coca-cola" celebration, where the main and honorary guest was the finance minister and certainly he put himself in the protection of large capital, and at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14288	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—16 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14289	Thank you, Chairman. This is one of the few laws we have discussed in this term on the government's proposal. I say - rare, because in a year since the last parliamentary elections, the Assembly has worked only three months. This year – not a single day. Today, in 2017, it is 109th day and of course it is right for some citizens to ask why all of us here are receiving our perks and do we earn and justify the trust of the citizens who elected us a year ago in the elections? The law on the financing of local self-government proposed by the government and which we discussed and adopted in October last year went towards reducing the fiscal freedom of local self-government, namely, towards further centralisation. The profit tax rate, which was 80%, was reduced by 4 and 6%, respectively. The government explained this by the need to further strengthen the central budget, she said the municipalities would make up for that amount of money through projects they should compete with the government. And that is exactly the government's policy -- to centralize all life in Serbia, to prevent any local initiative, to make the municipalities the cripples that can't manage their money, not to care about the development of their environments. What we're proposing is that this change is practically annulled, that this rate is back to the level that was before the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the law, it means 80%, and with the change of one other law, that's the Law on Income Tax, we're finally going to relieve the economy, what this government has been saying for five years, and it hasn't done anything at all. The rate of burden on employees' salaries, for taxes, social benefits and pension insurance is the same as it was five years ago, although the government's reform mouth is full. We believe that when the budget is so good that we listen to it from month to month, or day, it is time to dissipate the economy and that what this law has taken away from local self-government and placed in the central budget will return to the economy, so that the income tax on citizens, the tax rate will be reduced from 10% to 9%.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14290	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote—16, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts of the circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade in the part of the city known as Savala, 25 April 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14291	Thank you. Here's the incident or whatever we call it, the collapse of the state order of the Republic of Serbia, which has been why we've been looking for the formation of a survey committee since the beginning of this parliament, almost exactly a year ago. I believe that a handful of fools, dissatisfactions, haters, in a few days of protest, will mark what we can call ourselves as the collapse of the state, happened on the night between 24th and 25th of April 2016. I mean, if we could hear almost everything in public in the past year, from whether they were responsible for the demolition of complete idiots from the top of the city, until today they almost knew who they were and who they were, and who they were, the perpetrators of the three barracks that the Prime Minister would have only known personally, but, well, he was probably busy those days, well, he couldn't. But the only thing we don't know is what the state's answer is, the state's authorities. What the prosecution has taken and what measures have been taken. Did the police respond to the prosecution's demands to hear certain persons? Did the prosecutor at the end of the line listen to the Prime Minister, the newly elected president of the state, the president of the country, and I no longer know what to call him, Alexander Vukic, who said he knew who was responsible. That's what he said on June 8, 2016. Did the prosecutor have the courage to listen to him and hear from him who's responsible? Did the prosecutor listen to those who were direct perpetrators? Some of them, I'm afraid, are not among the living today. The question is how time passes, how many will be to answer for what was done that day. It was done, not only the destruction of three barracks, but the destruction of the state, because someone ordered from the top of the police, local, city police not to act on the call of citizens, and it was determined by an investigation of independent state authorities that still existed at the disaster of the ruling majority, who claimed that there were failures, which claimed that the police had not responded even though the calls were coming, but the only place where this parliament is still being spoken of today, and only this three minutes as from time to time as well as colleagues who have submitted a similar initiative, we have to explain and put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14292	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. It concludes the vote: for the vote – 22, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented - by a draft law amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14293	Your Honor, I will use three minutes per each of these bill proposals. I think that citizens have the right to hear that there are different proposals for a different policy than the government of the Republic of Serbia and that this policy is neither good nor only possible. This proposal is an amendment to the Law on Income Tax, which suggests reducing the tax rate from 10% to 9%. It is related to the previous law I was talking about, the Law on the financing of local self-government and the fact that some five billion, five to six billion dinars, are more foreseen by the 2017 budget than the tax that remains, or less, taxes that remain on municipalities and cities. We believe that if the government has already estimated that this amount is sufficient for municipalities and cities, we believe that this start of discharging the economy and reducing the total gross earnings of employees in Serbia and that it has created a space for this minimum, I repeat, from 10% to 9%, to a reduction, but as one indicator of the government to understand how difficult it is today for businesses in Serbia who are working, trying to develop their jobs without subsidies or some Burzerian or I don't know what kind of dealings with individuals at the top of the government, to develop their jobs because they are giving towards the budget and other financial institutions of the Serbian state are the largest in the region. The state by not changing anything for not only five years but also many years, sends a message that it is not ready to engage in real reforms and make changes in the Republic of Serbia. I think the space has been made, that this tax can be reduced, that there is a need to consider reducing other rates related to both the social and health insurance budgets and to see how more efficient management, reducing theft and corruption can be saved by additional funds, and discharging the economy. We have a story from the government of the Republic of Serbia about the fight against the gray economy. The main cause of the gray economy in our opinion is this too many interventions, and as long as this changes, the matter of stepping up and the number of prize games the Government of the Republic of Serbia will organise, step up and change will not be.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14294	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 19, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14295	This Assembly passed the Law on Public Media Services and, despite announcing that a tax on electricity would be abolished, we received a second fee under the name of a TV subscription, which now has to be paid by paying an electricity bill, first every citizen with a registered count of 150 dinars, and then the rest of the money is transferred to Serbia's Elektroprivred. Today almost funny is the government's leader's statements that the billing of TV subscription is 90 percent and more. A TV subscription can't be paid, so it's a legal solution. You can not pay it only if you don't pay the bill for the electricity delivered at all and that is deeply unfair to those citizens, and that is the essence of this change, which has more electric numbers registered in their name, which have an electric counter for their garage or for some auxiliary facility if they live in a household with multiple objects. On each of those electrical numbers they have to pay the TV subscription. We think it's unfair, that it's not the essence of the law, and we suggest that with this change and supplementing very simply amend the law so that the citizen pays that TV subscription for only one number, just one single time. Of course, if this point were to come to the agenda it would certainly be debated and what citizens get for that fee, i.e. 150 dinar subscription, how much they pay each month, some, unfortunately, and more, do they get the quality of the television programme, do they finance the public service of all Serbian citizens, and those two million, how much they voted in these elections for Alexander Vukic, but also for those 4,700,000 who did not vote? Do these citizens have the right to hear another idea, some other policy, some other opinion on public service programmes they finance? Today they have no right to do so. Your right to know everything the Public Service is talking about is the right to know everything about what Alexander Vukic thinks and plans, not what they plan and what those representatives of the citizens think, those 4,700,000 who do not vote for Alexander Vukic. I hope this bill... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14296	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary adjustment of the way pensions are paid. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14297	This law, if nothing else, should be proposed by the ruling majority to change its name. Namely, the Law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid has become a law on the permanent way of paying out pensions, according to all government members, by the Prime Minister and all their members. What was in the bill when it came to this Assembly, which is that the law will last for three years and that those with pensions of more than 25,000 dinars, whose pensions have been reduced by 20 per cent and more, this reduction will only last three years, that is when the law has been passed, and it has been deleted, according to the Prime Minister, because we will have such good results that we will get conditions for the application of this law to stop earlier. Unfortunately, two and a half years since the adoption of this law and its validity, we see that this temporary character has been abandoned and that this law will apply as long as this ruling majority exists and I think it is okay and clear and should be told loudly to all citizens of Serbia. I know that millions of Serbian citizens, who are not covered by this law, feel that this has nothing to do with them, but also that there is a story about how for those millions of citizens who are not covered by this pension reduction today are bigger than they were two and two years ago is a fake painting. They have not been increased as much as the cost of living has been in the last two and a half years, which would have been done if the PIO Law had not been amended and the obligation to double-annually align pensions with the cost of living has not been lifted. These pensioners are also poor, and we are all the poorest, because this law is one of the main generators of the grey economy, because today many companies in Serbia and many employees are determined to officially work for the minimumer, to officially pay minimum amounts to the pension fund and to pay the rest of the money to the employees, because the logic of the employee – why should I give more to the state if that state will not return what I have spent my whole life?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14298	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the points of the draft law. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14299	This law should bring to an end the two bad practices we have in Serbia today. The first is that parliament, by the rule of 80 and more, discusses laws that come from the Government in an urgent procedure, in a shortened procedure for meeting MPs with their contents, in a shortened procedure for considering and preparing amendments, in a shortened procedure for the entry into force of these laws, because almost half of the laws in the transitional and final provisions are laid down to take effect not on the eighth day following the publication of the amendment, but on the day of publication in the Official Messenger, but also with this practice that we are witnessing today, or at the beginning of each session, each session in a regular session, and that MPs are exclusively proposing dozens of laws that the ruling majority refuse to put on the agenda. And this bill of law, no matter how unusual it may sound to someone, is necessary to restore parliamentaryism and democracy to this home. Parliament regulations are being misused today. One of these abuses was also the setting of a 50-day break so that this assembly would not work allegedly during the campaign, because it has always been, which is another lie, because every time the presidential elections were held and not held at the same time and parliamentaryly, parliament worked normally. And by the end of 2007, when the presidential election campaign started and 2004, when only the presidential elections were held, parliament worked normally. One big lie was told here 50 days ago, and then repeated countless times as it was every time, and the citizens had no opportunity at public service or any other media to hear that it was simply not true, to look at statistics and see what was true. In order to end all these lies and bad practice, we have proposed this law and I hope that at some point, but obviously not today, he will find the confidence of most MPs and will find himself on the agenda of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14300	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14301	This law was first proposed in the assembly procedure in the last meeting on 15 September 2015. So, more than a year and a half. It's one of the measures that should facilitate the financial situation of families with children. The proposal of this law, its essence is that the reduced tax rate of 10%, instead of 20% today, is taxing baby food. Although, when through some other amendments and additions to the VAT Act, proposed by the Government, we also proposed this amendment, the competent minister, and even some fellow MPs from most of them had nothing against this measure, it never came to the agenda and we never adopted this or some similar solution that should allow families who have babies and reduce even the symbolic cost they have for food. The argument was, last we could hear here by the finance minister, that there was a lot of administration by the tax administration and that there were possible abuses. Then we got the changes proposed by the government, where there was a reduction in the tax burden on some other products and there was no question of whether abuses were possible and whether such a possible change would lead to a real reduction in retail prices for baby food. I don't think this government is trying to do anything about a big, demographic problem that exists today in Serbia. We have announcements of something, we had a law that was passed at the end of last year, which was supposed to lift the VAT refund for baby equipment, which unfortunately costs more in Serbia than anywhere in the countries of the region, and whose application was delayed until the adoption of another law that should give financial support to families with children, but there is no such law. I spoke a few minutes ago about the fact that the law still does not exist and that the measures we have today are not enough to help families, a quarter of the families in Serbia who live at risk from poverty, one third of the children, and that is the number of 800,000, who live at risk from poverty. It is irresponsible for the ruling majority, hiding behind formal reasons, to give up the debate on such important issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14302	I'm closing the vote and I'm saying, for -17, against - no one with abstentions is there. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14303	Another of the bad laws adopted by the Assembly at the end of the term of the previous term of appeal is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. The law is announced on big bells, how it will solve pay problems, primarily different salaries for the same or similar public sector interests. It contained an essential falinky in itself, which is the definition of the public sector, which is that neither public service, the National Bank, or public enterprises, are included in the public sector, exactly where the biggest difference in the salaries of employees doing the same or similar work compared to salaries in the public sector, as defined by this law. Instead of the government doing some changes in this year and a half, which would correct the bad things that were done by introducing such a law, the government was not even able to do what it had committed to this law. The government had pledged to adopt a payment-class law by the start of this year, which was due to come as a consequence of this law. What the government did was, at the end of last year, that deadline, as usual and according to the workings of this government, was moved to another year. I sincerely doubt that this deadline will also be respected, since we do not have any legislative initiative from the government in the first 110 days of this year, no single law has been passed by the Government and sent to the Assembly. Obviously we can't expect that until the beginning of June, when we'll probably get a new government. I hope that in the meantime some will not come up with a solution that the same person can also be the president of the state and the Prime Minister, that we will get the new Prime Minister, the new Government, but then I fear how long it will take that government and some new ministers or old ones, don't give God, which is in it, to prepare and propose this law, a bill on payment classes. This parliament should be doing something by then. I have today proposed more than ten draft laws that this parliament might consider, some to adopt, some perhaps some, some amendments to the proposed changes and improvements. But what's inadmissible is...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14304	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14305	The relation of this government to culture was best seen when this law was passed, when we received in this assembly and a new minister, whom I believe the vast majority cannot even remember its name, nor to list one of its activities since he was elected minister. What only gave me the incentive to insist on the amendments to this Culture Act are exactly the transparencys of some young people who, these days in front of parliament and in the streets of the big cities of Serbia, are protesting the need for culture to return, to get the culture out of exile that has been expelled by both government policy and media policy that create public opinion in Serbia, and to open up and cultural institutions that have been closed for years, despite the various promises of setting deadlines, some of the numerators who were supposed to count down the days until the opening of these museums and other institutions, and none of this has been done. This concrete proposal speaks of the fact that the awards for achievements achieved in culture are not awarded on the basis of a government regulation, government decisions, but that, as in the case of meriting athletes, well-deserved cultural workers who receive an international award at European and world level automatically acquire the right to retire and supplement if they could continue to work and deal with their cultural work. There is justice that a legal solution, where it is governed by a regulation, is sufficient. We believe that it is not enough, because the government regulation is something that can be changed where and where it is easier to change than the law and it provides far less security for cultural and cultural workers. They, unfortunately, cannot even exercise legal protection against courts in the event of a government failure to comply with the rules, because these regulations do not have the power of law and it is impossible for them to exercise their rights before the court. That's why we have protests in different cities for failing to meet our obligations to cultural workers. This bad attitude towards culture must change, but unfortunately, this ruling majority obviously doesn't understand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14306	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14307	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, here after 50 days of consultation, how long the Parliament's president's consultations with the members of the government continued, and again on the agenda of this session we have laws proposed by the opposition, instead of proposing them by the government. This practice continues, and here I am, by who knows what time today I am re-proposing a law that we should all adopt here, as regards the Law of Consensus, in fact, the Law on Student and Student Standard with the Law on Local Self-Government. So today local self-government cannot scholarship students and students without committing a violation because there is a legal discrepancy. If you don't care, you can see through the results that have been achieved in the past five years. In fact, the biggest result is the number of young people leaving Serbia each year, so in one day, on January 11th of this year, from Novi Sad you could see 15 buses with young people going to Slovakia to work. The result is that because of this lack of concern for young people last year, 65,000 people from Serbia left, last year that number was slightly less than 58,000, and that's what we need to talk about. So if you came seriously to this problem, you'd put this on the agenda. I even suggested that this be a proposal from the government, let the government propose this, let the SNS MPs propose it because it is important to adopt it for students, for students, but it is important for their parents who can hardly put an end to the end, let alone provide normal amounts of funding for their students. Unfortunately, however, you have shown no concern at all to put this on the agenda. You show that you are only interested in students, or students, when you are chasing them through protests to photograph them, persecute them, and then on television shows, MPs and ministers wave with their photographs, condemning them as they may seek, that someone thinks that Serbia should be a normal democratically decorated country with the rule of law and law. They are accused of having normal demands and normal protests. In fact, you don't fit a normal state, a normally arranged system, and that's why you don't respond to the protests, and that's why we don't have this law on the agenda, even though I'm the one who knows which time I'm proposing. I call on SNS MPs to, if they don't already vote for this proposal because I propose it as a representative of the opposition, let them propose it at the next session and we will support it to remove this...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14308	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14309	Also another law in the domain of local self-government, and it concerns the functioning of local communities. Today we have an electoral law that is the result of this kind of vote in parliament. This election law leads to MPs not being representatives of the people, but being representatives of the parties, or the heads of the party that sent them here. Instead of meeting the demands of the citizens, they meet the demands of their bosses who put them here, or sent them. So what I'm talking about here is that we now have a situation where the only democratic elections where people choose by name and last name, and these are elections for local communities, the advice of local communities that today, at this moment, the most you, representatives of the SNS, have, at this moment, have to provide a way of functioning, i.e. financing and organising local communities. Meat communities are important, there are defined as categories in the Law on Local Elections, but they should also be given jurisdiction. First, there should be an obligation to set up local communities, both in rural and urban areas, and what is more important is that they should be given the authority to decide on certain matters on their own and in fact they decide on the priorities they will finance themselves. In order to be able to finance, they need to be provided with funding. Today, they serve to allow the ruling party to hold a press conference on national television, and this is very often done by the prime minister, praising the election results in local communities, not saying at any time that they will function and how their funding will be organised. I therefore propose this bill to direct 80% of the property tax, which is collected in the territory of a particular local community, to the budgets of local communities, so that people who have already taken the job can have financial independence, independence from local self-government and any will by local self-government to transfer funds to them or not, and to decide for themselves what their priorities are. Unfortunately, you do not put this bill on the agenda because it is not in line with the Law on the financing of local self-government where you once again removed financial resources based on the income tax that remained in cities and municipalities. It simply continues with the practice of poverty and municipalities and local communities and citizens in order to make sure that in the Republic of Serbia's budget we have a stable situation, that we have enough resources. Unfortunately, these funds in the budget are at the expense of citizens, because they are taken from their wallets, to the detriment of local self-government, to the harm of local communities, farmers, pensioners, workers and all other people living in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14310	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14311	Thank you. So this bill refers to creating conditions for normal functioning of business entrepreneurs, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. So, by law, I suggest that at least in a small, symbolic way, we show the desire to put foreign investors in the same plane, whose hand and hat you push thousands of euros per employee with our small and medium-sized enterprises only when the tax administration is supposed to come to tax them or some other inspection to charge them a fine. I suggest introducing two new members. One member actually makes it easier for all those entrepreneurs, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, who employ new workers over a period of two years, to reduce their base for profit tax, precisely for the amount they have paid on the basis of wages and earnings. The second member refers to under-developed areas of the Republic of Serbia in which we should free all newly established companies, enterprises or any other form of entrepreneurship organisation from a period of three years. You, gentlemen, announced last year, in 2016, a year of entrepreneurship, that about 40 laws will be amended to facilitate the business and functioning of our small businesses in Serbia. Of course, it's just another one in a series of lies you promised Serbian citizens. Of all that, nothing happened. You didn't even want to accept these draft laws that I and other opposition colleagues are proposing, since the laws don't come from the government, and they can't make it because the primary task of this government and Alexander Vukic is to organise the election. Since 2012, every year we have elections, so the government probably can't do its job for which it was elected, but we do the elections. So today we have a situation where in Serbia around 300,000 small and medium-sized enterprises create slightly more than 30% of GDP in the Republic of Serbia, significantly lower than the average in developed European countries. Unfortunately, the trend is that at ten newly established shops or enterprise stores, i.e. medium and small enterprises six shut down and we only talk about them when it comes to campaigning and when you need someone to take pictures, not when they need real and real help. They know what they're doing, they know their jobs. They are neither lazy nor unemployed, nor lacking in entrepreneurial initiatives, as Mr. Vukic knows how to say very often, but simply, they do not have normal conditions for business and therefore they are struggling today. I suggest that this law be put into practice and in some way help them, unlike the foreign companies that...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14312	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. Can not get message: %s %s National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14313	Thank you. Another very important topic for me, a very important law, is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. So, as of 2012, we have been hearing announcements about how farmers in Serbia will be helped, how more significant funds will be allocated. Of course, none of that ever happened. These are lies we hear from the ruling furniture before every election in every campaign. In 2012, the Serbian Progressive Party published its White Paper on which it stands - agriculture as an industrial branch is a strategic activity that attaches special importance and treatment. Citizens in Serbia must eat healthy food. The economic and political definition is that agriculture should be a strategic economic branch. The agrarian budget will increase significantly and its height should be at least 5% of the total budget in 2012 with a minimum increase of 1% in each year. We're in 2017 today. So the agrarian budget should be around 10%, and it's below 5% today. You're also breaking the Budget System Act. So much for what you promise the citizens and what you promise the farmers. It was all promises and lies that continued to continue. We propose in this law to raise incentives for agricultural production for several reasons. The first is that small agricultural family holdings are today the largest employer in Serbia. In 638 thousand agricultural holdings today, over a million and a half Serbian citizens work directly or indirectly. There is no greater employer than the small agricultural family owners in Serbia, and you pay the least attention to them, and this is seen by the unfulfilled promises and lies you have given them, and you can see how much they are represented in the budget. Far less represented are agricultural producers in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, than any foreign company to which we give millions and thousands of euros per employee, not realizing that we are going a step further towards the creation of a slave company, because we want our people to work for 20 thousand dinars. Praise, not us, but the prime minister boasts that wages in Serbia are less than in the environment and that investors will come here. It is not the goal of people working here for free and working in diapers and wearing diapers, but of doing decent jobs and of being able to live normally, not to seek their happiness in other countries outside Serbia. Agriculture has great potential, but you'd have to invest in it if you wanted to use that potential. Otherwise, there will be only one unused resource left of this Republic of Serbia, another missed chance, and our farmers are becoming increasingly difficult and harder to put an end to because no one is paying attention to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14314	I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. Can not get message: %s %s National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14315	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, after a long time. I can't resist asking you – how are you today? That's what our citizens are interested in. This law has been offered to Members of the majority for a very long time, two calls and so far has not come up with a positive answer and the explanation is very simple. Because the passing of such a law would affect many of the current people of the current regime, and probably others present, and that is why I am not surprised by that relationship. But I will repeat this bill. Apparently, he found his foundation in Serbia with our citizens. For example, this handful of several tens of thousands of people protesting each day, along with other demands, has these demands that false diplomas cannot happen in the hands of the people who run the state. Until recently, the current police minister, a well-known waver with other people's photographs, some of the heads of parliament's groups, say the director of the Kosovo Office, the mayor of Belgrade, and many others would enter the criminal stage if the law was passed. And now they're perpetrators of a crime, but the dormant judiciary is dealing with it. What's the idea? The idea is to introduce something that, do not be afraid, is called – academic honesty. I call upon all those who understand what these two words mean not to be afraid. It exists everywhere in the world, so it can be with us. The other thing is that academic honesty is based on independent writing, as well as strict respect for other people's copyrights. To repeat, respect for other people's rights, in this case of copyright. It would be very beneficial for Serbia to get a bill like this. Then young people would go to colleges with the idea that they'd get a job after that, and they wouldn't go to the back parties to get a job. It would prevent the outflow of young children's personnel who, if not at the protests, are at border crossings. This would lead to people in Serbia who know what is happening around them because they have a general education, but also a specialist education for an area and there would be no need for extravagant solutions for barbecuers to run EPS, to have aunts, sisters, sisters, sisters of some important politicians in Serbia run public enterprises. That would be the past and we would be a state where in the public sector, and private of course, but that's a different story, there were a lot of people who would be able to do their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14316	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14317	Of course the settlements, not the violence. This is the same old bill of amendment. He's two years old. It is an abdicated, modernized text of the law that was passed in 2003, which correctly solved this area, but unfortunately the next government in 2004, and then the Minister of Capital or something broke on his own facility, so that practically the law remained unadvised until today, and then it was brought to various changes that further construction in Serbia was on the verge of legality, in many cases completely illegal. The biggest example of illegal construction in Serbia is something called "Belgrade on Water", what should have been completed, as far as I remember, by the promise of someone who was then prime minister, and today is not the president by the end of 2016, so it didn't happen. I hope that this rain that is coming today will not delay the end, that this is the reason for the stay of the end of 2020. This was a very good law that in a comprehensive way and the area of planning and construction led to a single level that put Serbia in the order of European countries at the time. At that time, the start of construction without a building permit resulting from some other documents was a crime. That means when the Prime Minister goes with some of his friends from us far away, but friendly countries, and he stabs the aces in front of TV cameras to throw a time capsule in which he had previously packed up Serbia, the police would immediately come to arrest him because he can't even stab an ace if he doesn't have a permit to start construction, which has happened here many times. It is said that there are many cranes in Belgrade, that there has never been a major construction, and I will have to visit an ophthalmologist because I don't see that large number of cranes or those who see them visiting any other speciality, let's say they go to a minister without a portfolio in the Serbian government. For example, he can go immediately to the construction inspection and look at the Nebojsina 10 facility, which is built under the protection of the current government of Vracar, Belgrade, Serbia, where there is an illegal permit for a public garage, and the construction of P facilities has started, plus four, plus the PK. It's just one example, I look at it every day, so I find it interesting, but tens and tens of thousands of such laws. This law would solve all these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14318	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians, committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14319	And this is one of the bill's proposals, for these previous ones I understand why they are not accepted, because they would be at the expense of the assembly majority and the political majority right now in Serbia, but, let's say, I don't understand what this is about the law which, in fact, with a resolution that would condemn and before that, recognise the genocide of Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire in the period from 1915 to 1922. I have already mentioned several times that all countries have brought similar acts, above all Resolutions, there are countries on the left and on the right, both from the east and from the west, and the Russian Federation and Greece and Belgium and France and Canada and Italy and Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, some states within and the United States, like California and that would be the historical recognition of something that absolutely happened. Of course, it has nothing to do with it, or at least I hope it has nothing to do with the current Turkish authorities and events in that country, which would be strengthening the foundations of Serbs to ask for the same thing from others in the world, since the Serbian people together with other Serbian citizens were the victim of different pogroms, genocide in our near and further history, and I support all the acts they want, all attempts to verify it and make one monument to NATO victims, victims of NATO bombing. There is a good example in Nis, in 2000 or in 1999, of a chapel of Nislims who were victims of the wars of the 1990s, including NATO bombings. That would be very good at Serbia's level, and that would be a better solution than the wall of wages standing outside, which is aesthetically difficult to properly depict the victims painted on it. These people deserve a much better solution than it is a canvas with a weak press, which is a victim and some people who might want to tear it up, but above all, a victim of weather disasters. I don't think that's good for Serbia, that in such a bizarre, cheap, pointless way they remember their victims. There are much better ways to do that. Serbia and other citizens of Serbia have been victims many times, and we know very well how to pay their respects to all these victims. So, for starters, the Armenian brothers are to be recognized and honored.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14320	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14321	I proposed this law in time, at the end of autumn last year, when there were conditions to protect Serbia once again, taxpayers, means Serbian citizens from the great pointless costs of political campaigns. Unfortunately, these choices behind us have been proof that they've been thrown away. We had tens of millions of euros or several billion dinars, money dropped for pointless, aesthetically unacceptable, politically nasty and disgusting commercials that spent taxpayers' money on Serbia and Serbian citizens. The candidate I supported and the NS in these elections, Sasa Jankovic did not participate in this spending of money and there was not a single commercial on the candidate's electronic media, and the success achieved is significant. It is called relative victory and if there were no apparent theft in these elections, if there were no theft in the pre-election, electoral and post-election procedure, there would have been another round, and then it would have been seen that there was one referendum atmosphere that has its consequences today on the streets of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and other cities in Serbia, and then the results would be more uncertain than they are now. And today they are uncertain, because the question is whether the Election Commission will accept the illegal electoral procedure and regarding the Constitutional Court's decision and about the iron leafed paint and the many other things we've seen in this circus since the election behind us. So, what we can prevent is that money is being thrown for stupid commercials where some people put that money directly out of the citizens' pocket, and public electronic media can go through promotional shows, through dual shows, through shows where the coward of candidates, who now boasts that he became president before the deadline, sat down with some candidate, any, even with some of their own, even with someone who is on the verge of falling unconscious or eating a sandwich and at least change a word with him. However, it is obvious that it is much better to rob money from pensioners and public sector people and to put that money in their pocket or, as the people would say, somewhere else near their pockets, and to raise contempt for Serbian citizens. I'm sure you won't vote for this bill, because you're afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14322	Now we'll see who votes at all. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14323	Thank you for the announcement of the results of the vote for the previous bill, but I already assumed it would be so and I said why – lack of courage is one thing to live with. The draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs is a continuation, i.e. a law that has the same objective as the law that was just now on the agenda, which is on the financing of political activities where it says that it is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media broadcast on the territory of the Republic of Serbia to submit electoral lists for the transfer of pre-election meetings, political messages and advertisements. Since the law also regulates the area of financing the work of political parties in its own way, it was therefore necessary that, in addition to the Law on the financing of political activities, I also propose a bill concerning the election of MPs. Of course, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs is also applied to the election of presidents, so it includes that area and again, the spending of large national couples would be prevented. Let me give you just a few examples. About 20m euros and some million euros were spent on campaigns in this election cycle, 90 per cent spent the ruling party, to say 15m, to make it easier to calculate, although it is more. For 15m euros, all medical equipment for the University Clinical Center in Nis can be purchased, which is built and stands empty as is the Emergency Centre, which some of the likes were built 20 years ago, stood empty for 20 years. With that money, all public toilets in Serbia, promised by the current candidate for president of Serbia, can be resolved, will personally go, see, touch, smell and resolve, and that has not happened. With 15m euros, you can finally paint the Prince of Michael and fix the facades, pardon King Milan's street, and not give those underpants, which were hanged, only while the elections were, to be blown by the wind and to see only that the facades were washed by the rain and not by some great work. With 15 million euros a healthy and normal man can do a lot, and a patient can do a lot of things that are evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14324	I'm putting this motion to the vote. May I ask how you are today? Yeah, I'm asking you how you're doing today, are you all right? [[Zoran Zivkovic: I can't hear you, you're asking me?]] I'm closing the vote. Now your proposal has received - five votes. I believe that the opposition boycotts you, not those to whom you turn, against whom there is no one who is self-sufficient. He didn't pass your proposal. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14325	This law concerns... Are you sure it's your turn now? Okay. First of all, I'm fine, which is what I want for you. Now, three laws are going in which I propose that, before running for public office, whether it is a candidate for the president of the state, for a MP or for a member of the government, the obligation is laid down legally to carry out a review of the candidates. To get these candidates through the minimum review needed for any other Serbian citizen who wants to work in the public sector and not just in the public sector. But since the president of the state, we MPs, members of the government, are entering this public sector, it would be perfectly logical, that if it is necessary for a coffee cook, a cleaning lady, an administrative worker, a guard, or anything, if there has to be a doctor's examination, it's perfectly logical that we have a review for this too. Let's just say that we have something like that wouldn't happen if we had a sick situation where the most important MP, who was chosen by chance as president of parliament in a country, in some time, in Serbia today, says that the interruption of parliament's work is a struggle to preserve security in the state and the fight to preserve Parliament's integrity. That's sick. It's not the political intent of evil, it's absolutely, I know a lot about evil political intentions, I've known you a long time, but it's not normal and someone who's got such a thing hanging on his head, Mr Krasic, and who wants to introduce such a thing as a practice, into this highest home of Serbian democracy in the temple of democracy, as we like to say, then obviously it's not just political failure or evil political intent, but there's a disease, I don't know which, I'm not in charge of it. I just want every candidate for the MP, not when he's elected, when he's running to the doctor, it's either the Department of Health of the Citizens or I don't know which one, has more speciality, it's like when you get a gun license or you get a license to drive a motor vehicle or some stuff like that, and to prove the signatures of a relevant institution and experts who work there for small money or make them run away from the country, to create conditions for illiterate heirs politically, that these people get black on white that they're healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14326	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote, nine MPs, against – no one with abstentions – voted for this proposal. This proposal was not accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14327	So now the vote for the previous proposal was 78.6% more my success than the previous one. It is based on the methodology of analysts who analyse the re-election of three polling stations in Serbia and are praised for winning 90 per cent. That's how I won the previous vote. The proposal for a Government Act in Article 11 has the title ‘Health, Incompatibility and Conflict of Interest’. Before the government's election, any proposed member of the government must provide medical assurance to the National Assembly about the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies, as for coffee cooks. A member of the government cannot be in another public office in a state body, an entity of an autonomous province, a municipality, the City of Belgrade, a city, or perform an act that is legally incompatible with the duties of a member of the government, or create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest. You're already scared. A member of the Government is obliged to comply with all the regulations governing conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. And Article 2 that says - this law takes effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger", I will accept amendments that would require it to be moved, perhaps for a month. Some people get by. So this would not be the first time, one, probably the only serious government in Serbia's history, if I didn't complicate with the times formed by Dr Zoran Djindjic, MPs had before them when they chose the government of conviction of all candidates that they were medically capable of performing these important functions. I think it was a good custom, too bad it didn't come to life. It is a pity that it is not accepted by the following, because we would not have come to this if, as we have in government today, a lot of people who have a big question about whether they meet the conditions necessary to perform the responsible function of a coffee cook in the joint services of the Serbian Government. I'm openly questioning all members of the government, and they can be denied by everyone going into review. The review also involves physical ability, but also a psychic aspect of the ability to perform public functions. These are responsible functions, many happen to go crazy, not just with us, but I don't give a shit about Serbia the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14328	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Zoran Zivkovic, proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – draft law supplementing the law on the election of the President of the Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14329	I proposed a bill supplementing the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic somewhere in November last year, just with the knowledge that we have presidential elections and that in every way we prevent what happened to us. But whatever it is you've been doing, you haven't been willing to vote for it, and then today we're going to have again, whoever's elected, and especially the one who's already self-proclaimed elected, we're going to be in office as president of the state of a man without medical conviction. I think you're aware of the gravity and seriousness of the situation. And before that, we had a president who didn't have medical confidence. It was depicted by yellow people, tens of thousands of Chinese investments, the Danube-Wardar Canal, which goes into two plums, both in the Aegean and in the Black Sea, and seeing things. But some things he didn't even see. Let's say... (President: MP, please talk about the bill. I beg you kindly. That's exactly what I'm talking about, if you know what I mean. If you don't understand, you have a translation service. (President: I understand perfectly. ) So, and he didn't see the same, let's say, one Bulgarian citizen named Flowers Silev, whom the whole of Europe is chasing on Interpol's red warrant, except it's not done here. We also had the ability of the previous president to do an oriental dance in one of our distant but friendly Arab countries. Imagine what happens now when we have a new one, for a little while longer, a president who also doesn't have a doctor's confidence? It will see a chip factory around Serbia, a solution to Petrochemy, the ISK, and I don't know what else. It will also show that "Belgrade on Water" is finished, that we are the most respected state in the world, that we have the biggest GDP development in the whole world, that it has built more roads than Tito, which I think is not fair to the present grandson... (President: MP! ) Imagine what we're getting now, and it's only been this long – a certified ID card, if they get it, this new one, which gets very fast, no longer than four years waiting to get a new health book, goes nicely into the joint service, has a lot of places, has a lot of places in Palmotić, and has a nice health check, says, I'm a healthy man, here, writes. Like this, there's a lot of doubt left. It's even worse that every moment, both regularly and extraordinaryly, at conferences and on statements, it confirms that my suspicion that this is not about health, but about something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14330	Ambassador! Can I put this proposal to the vote? (Zoran Zivkovic: Try, if you are capable. I don't know, I didn't take out the doctor's credentials. (Zoran Zivkovic: Well, we should. We'll go together. (Zoran Zivkovic: No, I'm not going. I invite you to go together, impartially, to the same doctor. If you need a commission. Who wants to vote for this proposal? I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, v—one, abstention—no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. There's a word from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14331	The medical examination was to be passed, obviously, but we are still talking about this subject that is now important and health-related, which is to prevent the dismissal of workers and workers who at the time of employment have come to the situation that they are sick, or in an even better situation, certainly better, which is that during pregnancy, maternity leave, absence from child care, absence from work for a special child care and absence from work due to temporary prevention for longer than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the employment contract. The reason for that was the case of a working woman from some low-end company, which is a miracle of technological and huge success in opening up new jobs for big money with ridiculous salaries, I'm not going to say which one is a company that I wouldn't advertise for free, but there's a fired worker who's been on sick leave. It's just one example that came to the public. You still have a lot of examples like that, a lot of cases like that. After that, by some intervention, pressure, she was returned to work. I'm not sure that she's in this job today because the elections have passed, but in general, I think even people who entered parliament without medical conviction and without political conviction and without anything at all, would have to vote to at least put on the agenda a bill that, I repeat again, says - In the Labour Act, the "Official Messenger" and that, in Article 187(1), paragraph 1 changes and reads, "In pregnancy, maternity leave, absence from child care, absence from child care, absence from child care, absence from work due to temporary prevention for work for more than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the employment contract." Let me hear one argument against this proposal. Just one. The silence doesn't justify you. I call upon anyone who is able to answer this question of mine, to get an answer after a successful vote. If you're voting for this proposal, I'm prepared to apologize for this suspicion I raised, but I'm afraid you won't surprise me pleasantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14332	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me just wait for the qua-quack to come out. First, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his convincing and magnificent victory in the presidential election. As it was achieved under the old rules, the rules established by the DS, since it was achieved by the fact that opposition representatives counted those votes in 80% of the election committees in 80% of the cases, since the ruling coalition does not have any editors on RTS, this victory in the presidential elections is higher. Congratulations to those who have contributed with their vote and prevented the destabilisation of the country, which I think is still under way. I have proposed a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, first of all to warn the public because here a farmer is trying, a student who recently left his apartment to demonstrate in Novi Sad, Goran Jesic, I hope that there will be no similar demonstrations in Vienna, because wherever he has an apartment, there are some demonstrations, a well-known pyroman who called for the burning of the National Assembly. They want to trick citizens into allegedly selling foreign lands to foreigners. That's not true. The agricultural land law stipulates that agricultural land in state property can only be purchased by domestic natural persons who have been resident for five years, citizenship for five years and who have a agricultural ownership for five years and cannot be estranged for 20 years, nor are they mortgaged on it. With this proposal, we want to prevent what they signed in 2007 or 2008, so that foreigners can buy real estate. We want, me and some of my colleagues, to supplement this law and private agricultural land cannot be sold to foreigners. Apparently, some fellow farmers, and I expected my fellow farmers, since they are very difficult conditions, difficult climates, minuses, snow, to explain to us what this impact on crops, on plantings, with a special reference to vineyards, but, obviously, there's a lot of work to do. This story of academic honesty, and the evening school ended in Bitola, twice he went, once to order, another time to take over, and he was talking about review and diagnosis, a man who, thanks to his diagnosis, avoided military service. He's talking about the protests. I suggest he no longer hides himself and leads the protests himself, and he, ladies and gentlemen, can drink the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14334	Thank you. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. I'm closing the vote. It was a vote of nine, against no one, abstentioned, none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Please determine the quorum before we move to the vote. (Radoslav Milojic: Your system is not working. Is your system not working? I know he's not doing anything to you. (Radoslav Milojic: We cannot vote. () Vote if you will, now is the quorum. When there's a vote, you'll vote, you report whether you're here or not, and you're not there. You're here now. There are 136 MPs present. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 170. The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out: the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention at the European Forest Institute, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illegal Trade in Tobacco Products, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Proposal for a Law on the Participation of the Central European Programme for the Reform of Educational Exchange (CEEPUS III), the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Reform of Education in South-Eastern Europe on the seat of the Secretariat of the Initiative for Education Reform of Education in South-European Europe in South-European Europe, the Treaty on the Reform of the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union, the European Union and the Treaty on the European Union's, and the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union, the Treaty on the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union and the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union and the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the Council and the Council and the Council, the Council and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council and the Council, the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 135, against – four, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we've come to terms with the proposals, I'm putting the agenda proposal in general to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote – 132 against – two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. It's 1:00 p.m., and I'm setting a break by 2:00 p.m. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the following ministers will attend today's session: Ivica Dačić, Dr Nebojsa Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Dr. Rasim Ljajic, Branislav Nedimović, Mladen Sarčević, Dr. Zlatibor Lončar, Aleksandar Vulin and State Secretary Dr. Stana Božović, Miodrag Poledica, Stevan Nikčević, doc. Dr Zoran Mihajlović, Prof. Dr. Vesna Mandić, Prof. Dr. Viktor Medović, Veljko Kovacevic, acting as Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Zoran Milošević, Deputy Minister of Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs, Milorad Todorovic, Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Saša Stamatović, Director of the Department of Forests at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Dragan Vujić, Jasmina Roskić, Head of Department of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Daniela Bozanić, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Protection of the Environment, Nevena Šović, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Health, Jelena Drjaninić, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Mersih Omergić, Minister of Health and Ministry of Health, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Health and Ministry of Health, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Health and Ministry of Health, Dr. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by means of a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the European Forest Institute, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Proposal for a Law on the Participation Agreement on the Central European Programme for University Exchange (CEEPUS III), Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the other members of the Education Reform Initiative in South-Eastern Europe at the seat of the Secretariat of the Initiative for the Reform of the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the European Union's Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for the Proposal for the Proposal for the Proposal for the Proposal for the Proposal for the Agreement between the Government of the European Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Poland on Cooperation on Cooperation between the European Union and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Council. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14335	Dear fellow MPs, the President-in-Office, I would only like to say a few things, and it is related to two acts that lie ahead of you. One is the draft law confirming the Convention on the European Forest Institute and the second is the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Doha of Amendments to the Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. The first draft law ahead of us is the result of an agreement signed by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro as early as 2003 and which has not been ratified in parliament so far. The European Forest Institute is an institution of scientific character that aimed at all its members in the same way expanding the value of shaming space, the development of special varieties and everything that encourages this area. Up until now, about 25 countries have ratified this EFI Convention. Based on this convention, our country becomes a member, but also the institutes that specialize, have a specialized character in the forest sector, have the right to become their members, the European Forest Institute. In terms of noise, we have a lot of problems in terms of the forests that are located next to the traffic, the forests located along the river, the canal streams, but also with regard to the restoration of the area on forest land. It is very important that we accept all modern experiences. This is the primary objective of this Convention, so that the most modern liquids can be implemented in our premises. As regards this second proposal for the Doha Amendment Act on Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, this Framework Convention was in force until 31 December 2012 and with the Doha amendments to the Kyoto Protocol, adopted on 8 December 2012, a transitional period has been introduced from 2013 to 2020 to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions and it is very important that we accept these amendments. What is characteristic of this bill is that Serbia has no obligation as some EU countries or other countries that accept these Doha amendments, to reduce harmful gas emissions in the period from 2020, but we are joining this whole process and it is very important that at least three-quarters of the countries deposit their consent to these Doha amendments. One thing I want to say that will come after this period by 2020 is so-called. Paris Convention. On 1 December 2016, our Government adopted a proposal for a law confirming the Paris Convention, where we are actively entering this process on reducing harmful gases for one reason, because in the future this is what we must strive for. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14336	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14337	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, I will brief you on the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, which came from the first Protocol of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which our country ratified in 2006 and thus accepted the obligation to introduce measures to reduce supply and demand for tobacco products in accordance with the provisions of the Convention and with all the protocols, guidelines and guides that arise from it. Unlawful trade in tobacco products is a serious threat to public health at global level, as it contributes to maintaining or even increasing the representation and use of tobacco products in the population, thus multiplying and strengthening the health consequences of tobacco use. Unlawful trade in tobacco products obstructs tax measures and price and tobacco control measures and causes significant loss of regular tax revenues in all countries, while, on the other hand, allowing financial profits to be made to illegal traders. Because of this, it requires an effective and comprehensive response at both national and international level. The Protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products is made up as a special international agreement establishing rules for the control of illicit trade in tobacco products at global level, primarily through the control of the tobacco supply chain and strengthening international co-operation. The Protocol obliges the Signatory Countries to establish a licensing and keeping system of records on all activities considered lawful in the transport of tobacco products, as well as the establishment of a competent authority for the issue, renewal and withdrawal of the licence. The Protocol calls for more intensive international co-operation through information exchange, mutual legal assistance, joint investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, as well as through the implementation of measures to ensure the extradition of perpetrators of criminal offences. The protocol also obliges the countries of the signatories, the establishment of a global system of monitoring, origin and movement of tobacco products through the supply chain from the moment of production to the end of the consumer. This measure is recognised by the Protocol as essential for the control of illegal trade and trade in counterfeit tobacco products, signed by the new EU Tobacco Products Directive 40/214, which entered into force in May 2016. The Protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products will enter into force 90 days after its ratification or attestation by 40 signatories. It is currently ratified by 25, including the EU as a whole, while in most countries ratification is under way. The law confirming the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products confirms the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to the goals of the UN World Health Organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14338	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14339	Good afternoon. In front of you today, there is a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on the navigation of the Tis River, a very important agreement. The previous agreement, the current agreement under which we are working, is 60 years old and in this agreement, which day today, I hope, until we pass the agreement, or ratify the agreement that we have signed, Tisa is open to sailing only for Serbian and Hungarian ships, only by paying, of course, certain taxes, which is why we have a direct impact on practically our water traffic, i.e. the reduction of ship shipping, and thus for less transport and for less goods transported. For this reason we started the previous year and a half negotiations with the Hungarian government. These negotiations led us to sign an agreement like this, where we practically open Tisa to all other ships without paying those kinds of fees that existed. I'll give you just a few data, which is that in 2006, the number of boardings, under the current agreement, decreased, when we talk about boarding in Tis, say, in 2006, there were 20, 2009 10, 2013 six boardings, in 2014, five, and in 2015 and 2016 none, precisely because it was too expensive for all other non-Serb and Hungarian ships. The government of the Republic of Serbia negotiated with the government of Hungary and signed the agreement. I really hope that we from a quality debate will eventually ratify this agreement. Our water traffic over the past 10 or 15 years seems to me, relative to water traffic, especially on rivers, above all, has not brought us as much revenue as all other countries have benefited from their position. The data that was not praised three years ago is that the participation of water transport goods, i.e. in general, was only 7% in the total volume of goods transport to Serbia, in some other countries it amounts to 15 and more. I'll tell you that in three years on today, the participation of water traffic in the total goods transported is 10%, and our goal is to make it 15% by 2020. Another information is very important for Serbia's water traffic, because it is one branch that was less talked about in relation to, say, road traffic, rail traffic and air traffic, and in fact, it is a huge potential that we should use and which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is really working in all its new strategies and economic policy in all its now. Therefore, in 2014, five million tonnes of goods were transported to the Danube, Sava and Tis in 2016, so only two years after that, the total carried goods were 10 million tonnes. The plan is that in 2017, it is 12 million tonnes and that, as we recover both ports and port areas and invest in infrastructure, and of course, we reduce everything called illegal ports, we make practically the state of Serbia income and that it is good for the development of the economy. I hope that on the basis of reflection and debate, we will ratify this agreement and that, in that sense, and as a state, we will benefit greatly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14340	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14341	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, you have before you a proposal for an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Romania in the area of social security. The last agreement concluded between Romania and the Republic of Serbia was long ago 1977 and regulated only the area of health insurance. Now we can freely say that we have taken a really big step and that we have agreed with the authorities of the Republic of Romania that this agreement applies to both health insurance and all areas of social security, as it will say to the exercise of pension, disability insurance, health insurance, health insurance, occupational injury insurance and child allowance. This Agreement is regulated in accordance with standard solutions and principles, which means that it has equal treatment of nationals of Contracting States in the field of social security, that direct payment of credits to the user and is granted the right to give, is carried out in its place of residence, that the collection of periods of insurance completed in both Contracting States for the exercise of pension rights or financial compensation, that the use of healthcare for persons who have residence or residence on the territory of another State of the Contracting Party may be used and, of course, the principle of insurance which allows the burden of social security to be borne by that State whose insurance is concerned. This is just one in a series of agreements we signed. I want to let you know, and we'll definitely come to this high house to get support for the next contracts we're working on. Those closest are certainly agreements with the Russian Federation, we hope with Greece, with Quebec, and we are working on, we have launched an initiative to conclude agreements with Spain, Azerbaijan, Belarus, China, the United Arab Emirates, as well as new agreements with Italy, Croatia and Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14342	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14343	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, there are three international agreements in the field of work of the MUP today. In essence, it is a new agreement on co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on security co-operation, signed on 22 March 2016, a change in the agreement in police co-operation with Bulgaria and ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation in the fight against organised and other types of crime. Our agreement with the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany strengthens co-operation with this country in the area of security, especially in the area of effective prevention and repression of criminal offences, organised and serious crime, terrorism, drug crime, illegal arms trafficking, and illegal migration and human trafficking across the state border. By confirming this agreement, we are essentially introducing into an institution of co-operation by the competent authorities listed in the agreement, in which all areas and the objectives of our co-operation, the precise forms and bodies of co-operation are defined closer. At the same time, the confirmation of this agreement will allow for stronger, more intensive co-operation on the path of European integration, i.e. further coordination with the Federal Republic of Germany's MUP, especially when it comes to chapters 23 and 24, given how much Germany has affected, I say, the methodology for setting negotiations regarding these two chapters. The application of this agreement will affect raising the level of security of citizens by respecting more developed EU Member States, will contribute to a greater sense of security among citizens due to a reduction in the number of crimes in the area of terrorism, organised and serious crime, as well as intoxicating drug offences. What I'm saying is that the two countries have significant co-operation in the area of countering organised crime. We've had several good joint activities, joint investigation teams working on several criminal acts and breaking organized criminal groups operating on both countries' territory. I will remind only of September 2016 when a major organised criminal group that traded various types of intoxicating funds was broken, which of course contributed to a significant increase in the safety of citizens in both the Republic of Serbia and the region when about 300kg of cocaine was seized and more people were arrested, including the organisers of this criminal group in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, above all in Zemun. In addition, Germany is one of the EU's largest donors related to the work of the MUP, and I can say that the donation amounted to around 435,000 euros between 2008 and 2016. During 2016, a donation worth around 58,000 euros for the MUP was realised. We also realised a number of joint activities that included support measures to secure the green border in countering illegal migration, identifying forged documents, supporting the security of the state border, combating human trafficking, which of course contributed to the creation of a stable climate in the security of our state border, but ensuring that there were no incidents during the period of the intense wave of migration while our country was once and a half 15,000 people in the course of one day. As for the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in police co-operation, the original agreement was signed on 20 May 2010. However, we decided to approach the change on both sides' initiative because we realized during the talks that the agreement provided that police officers working on security of the state border could cross the state border only at official crossing points. Since patrol routes are sometimes 50km away, this would result in additional costs, less efficiency of police officers in combating illegal migration and greater problems in the field in the work of people involved in this difficult work. That is why we have come forward, namely to propose amendments to this Agreement, which stipulates that both police officers can cross the state border of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria and beyond the state, official crossings, on a green belt in the common patrols, so it is common patrols, when they can be more effective in combating illegal migration, because, as you know, not counting on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, over Bulgaria, the largest number of migrants are illegally crossing into the Republic of Serbia. As far as co-operation is concerned, I can say that co-operation with the Bulgarian police is extremely good. Over 1,000 operational information is exchanged annually, which is a good number and we are trying to intensify that co-operation. We are also working very well in the area of the readmission of migrants who are illegally entering our country and who do not have the right to seek asylum in our country's territory or in the EU. Of course, we have good co-operation in the area of fighting organised crime, first of all, smuggling illegal goods, human trafficking and, of course, narcotics. As regards the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland in co-operation in the fight against organised crime, this Agreement was signed in Warsaw on 7 November 2011 and allows the creation of a basis for more effective operational co-operation between the two countries to combat organised and other types of crime. In fact, this Agreement has a particular emphasis on acts of terrorism and its financing, illegal production and illegal trafficking of weapons, trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation, illegal deprivement of freedom, illegal crossing of borders and the organisation of illegal migration, as well as smuggling of goods. We have been informed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Poland that at the end of 2015 they have completed all procedures, internal procedures that allow these agreements to be released in the readmission process, so today our part of the deal is before us, where we, in fact, ratifying the agreement, allow all these common measures to take effect. We have a lot of good co-operation with the Republic of Poland, mostly via Interpol. It is exchanged annually about 280 information and, of course, that this co-operation in the future, given how much it seems to me, in the territory of Europe, common co-operation in the areas of internal affairs, above all in the fight against organised crime, the prevention of terrorism and drug trafficking, but also through financial investigations that are essential, because money for funding organised crime comes most from drugs, as well as the possibility of co-operation with the prosecution through joint investigation teams. Such co-operation will continue with the Republic of Poland. Therefore, I think that the adoption of all three agreements will allow the Republic of Serbia to be more effective in countering all types of crime, but also international co-operation in which we will help other countries as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14344	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14345	Respect for the MPs, respect for the presidents, I have three contracts ahead of my ministry. One refers to a CEEPUS III project which is otherwise aimed at conducting a greater exchange of students, both in basic studies and at other levels of studies, as well as in doctoral. Otherwise, Serbia has been in this process since 2005. These are seven-year cycles, and it is necessary to ratify this cycle that includes a large number of scholarships that allow our students, students and PhDs alike. So, Serbia gets 415 outgoing scholarships, and otherwise it receives 149 scholarships that are made for foreign students in our country. Otherwise, it is a project that has its headquarters in Vienna and has its own secretariat. Several countries joined the Central European project: Albania, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and Slovakia. Over 47,000 exchanges of students have been made in the last 20 years in all directions. This Agreement is provided for under Article 14(1) of the Vienna Convention. The second agreement concerns the co-operation of Southeast European countries that form Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania and Moldova. It's RSI. So, co-operation between Southeast European countries that would bring their educational standards and systems into line with European standards. This project was launched in 2010. The Secretariat was in Zagreb, and the next of some rotations Belgrade is scheduled as the new secretariat headquarters, so this act also refers to the decision-making process for Belgrade to become the centre. The agreement was signed by counterpart Zarko Obradovic on 12.4.2013. It needs to be ratified in the National Assembly, and there are certain obligations that we have foreseen in the budget for education, science and technological development. There are also certain funds, such as the membership fee given by each participating country, for the work of the secretariats. Total fund of funds for the work of this body... Many other European richer countries, such as Switzerland, the Netherlands, Norway and others, are participating. The third act is co-operation and a new co-operation law between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the co-operation dates back to 1957, meaning former states, and a new agreement was later ratified in 2005 when Serbia-Montenegro's formation existed here. The Protocol was signed in Prague on 29 November 2016 and covers areas of co-operation, both in the field of education and science, both in the fields of youth and sports, culture and information. It's comprehensive, it covers a lot of fields of co-operation. It is indeed one friendly state and this agreement provides for a series of things that you could read here in all the fields covered by the three ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14346	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the motionors want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14347	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, here is after 50 days of consultation in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the President of Parliament informed us on March 1st, it seems that the conditions have finally been met that we can start working. So this is proof of another brutal lie when the President of Parliament here in this House said he was going to consultations, and the next day announced that the session would not continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14348	My colleague, please return to the agenda topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14349	I'm talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14350	No, don't talk. You need to talk about the agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14351	It's about a relationship, you'll hear it now. It's about the fact that after March 1st today we start working and we have a agenda that consists of 12 united points, among other points. The old practice continues, and we need to discuss today in a united debate on the Central European programme of university exchange, the fight against organised and other types of crime, police co-operation, the Tisa River, mutual incentives and the protection of investments between Serbia and Qatar, etc. It continues with the practice of demented agendas where everything interferes with everything, and where we need to be united to discuss something. No wonder in the first 10 months of working this house of 47 laws, as adopted, 81 we brought in an emergency procedure. And so, and we do today, we become a body for ratification of the law by emergency procedure, instead of seriously discussing every point and democratically performing everyone here in this House. When there's no democracy here, in this House, we shouldn't be surprised what's going on on on the street, it's the result of our work here. Since December of the month, by your decision, we have received regular wages, and we have not worked until this day. As for the agenda and the agreement that today is the topic, I will read to you when they have come into force, so that everyone will understand that this is not the essence of Parliament's work, but we are just satisfying the form, to show the citizens of Serbia that Parliament is actually doing something. As regards the Convention on the European Forest Institute, it entered into force on 28 August 2003. Protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products adopted in Seoul on 12 November 2012. There was an amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, adopted on 8 December 2012. An agreement on participation in a Central European university exchange programme signed on 25 March 2010. Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation in the fight against organised and other types of crime, signed on 7 November 2011, etc. It is about agreements that have long been signed and entered into force. We're only ratifying them today, so you'll have an excuse to call one session and introduce to the citizens that MPs are doing something and they're not doing it right now. As far as the agreements are concerned, if we're talking about a university exchange programme, Serbia and the Czech Republic's co-operation in science, culture, education, etc., we should actually talk here about providing better conditions for youth education, talking about the rights of students protesting here in front of this House, and looking for only a regulated state, nothing more than that, not taking pictures of them and chasing them, and after that, you call them on TV shows. When I talk about education and education reform, which you have mentioned since 2012, we are talking about today's agreement...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14352	Hey, buddy, you want to get back on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14353	I'm in the dark, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14354	No, you're not in the dark.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14355	How could I not?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14356	You're talking about photographs that the participants themselves published on social networks. So continue on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14357	Okay. I'm continuing on the subject. So, the topic is education and education conditions, because agreements are in the field of education, and I just need to take a broader look at the situation. So we're talking about agreements that we sign from the field of education, at a time when doctors go abroad, when young people don't plan to even start their education, let alone, a career in Serbia. We in one of these agreements, in particular the Education Reform Initiative, where Serbia hosts, the country hosts, right, we talk about what it takes to get inventory for the office, three office tables, quote, read actually, three office chairs, one table, two laptops, three phones with central, one fax machine, three air conditioning, one four-seat club, one refrigerator, coffee machine, etc. That's what it is, Mr. Arsic, in one of these agreements. So, I'm talking about the agenda point, and we need to discuss it, instead of really discussing education as a basis for every society and state, what conditions our students, our students, are we those toilets, which the prime minister has announced will visit all of Serbia, have he visited them, have we finished, etc., we are dealing with form and consent to certain agreements. As for the students themselves, unfortunately, those in Serbia continue to live on their parents' salaries and pensions, and will live on and on. A law on co-operation in the fight against organised crime, i.e. confirming the agreement, is also an important topic. First of all, before we agree on any interstate agreement, we should look into our own backyard, which is why we are going before those other countries that we want to co-operate with, if it is the fight against organised crime and corruption, to see what we have done, what you have actually done since 2012, when you are in power, in the field of fighting corruption and organised crime. I will remind you that in 2014 before the elections, there was an uncompromising fight against crime and corruption, that we watched a variety of actions cuter 1, Cuter 2, Pluto, which were accompanied by media pumps, without judicial epilogues, without charges. Unfortunately, this serves only for promotional purposes, campaigns, Prime Minister Vukic and individual ministers who want to promote themselves fighting crime and corruption. That this is what the EU is saying at the end and the report, which we haven't heard here in this House, because some MPs were probably tasked with attacking those who came here and informing us about Serbia's progress on the European path, so we couldn't hear about the fact that the index in the fight against corruption is bigger than in 2012. So it's not the same, it's bigger. If we look at today's analysis of the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy, which was conducted on 14 December 2017, there are actually 45 respondents who say the state is not seriously dealing with the fight against corruption, that corruption and crime are two key problems that threaten Serbia's security within. After all, you have the opportunity to see very often in public enterprises, the largest public enterprises and systems operating in the Republic of Serbia, various corruption activities, various criminal activities, but unfortunately, it is approximately allowed in this country. Someone has to follow the law, and someone has the right to do whatever they want, so we can talk about a lot of things. If we start with the White Paper, which you published here in 2012, as the ruling party, the SNS, it was your program, you can see for yourself what you did and what you didn't. Not to mention the Law on the Origin of Assets, on various situations, assassination attempts in the Lambs, the Savamala, which is the top, that is, if we talk about corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14358	My colleague, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14359	You owe the answers, not to me, to the citizens of Serbia for all I'm saying, and especially to those who voted you and who you asked for trust four times back five years. I hope you'll answer their questions very quickly that are open here. As for other agreements, such as the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Hungary, on the navigation of the Tis River, that's all right, and we need to deal with it. I will remind you that here in this House, we were dealing with another channel of Morava-Dunav-Morava-Wardar, a project that was also meant to bring major economic benefits to the Republic of Serbia. Today we're talking about sailing on the Tis and I would be much happier to talk about what lessons we learned from the 2014 flood. Three years after that, today we have a warning of possible floods, and we do not know if we have done anything from the area and prevention to prevent flooded cities and river spills in Serbia. As for the Agreement on mutual incentive and investment protection with the State of Qatar, I think we should pay particular attention for several reasons. So, we've had a lot of these agreements that we've talked about so far. Many of these agreements have also produced certain facts. One of those agreements is the Water Berograda Agreement, where we today do not know what is true, and what is not, we do not know the real truth, and to this day there are some business secrets in which apparently the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not have the right to have insight. Also one of the similar agreements with the Emirates was signed on the lease of land and Karadjordjev, i.e. Moravic in Karadjordjevo and land in Gajdobra and Sivc. A total of over 10,400 hectares. Only in Karadjordjevo and Moraviæ 3,534 hectares. I'll remind you, that and also one of the similar agreements that we've given here consent, that is, most of it, and not the opposition, has given it to you. Now if we look at what their results are, then of course the question is, what are we doing today? We now see that three years after that land lease agreement, we have no report - what are the results. Prime Minister Vukic, by defending this agreement sitting here in this bench, said to the letter that the Arab partners would increase productivity by four or five times thanks to the investment and the agreement, quoting it, on that agricultural surface much more than our couples did. Today, three years after that, we don't know if a single dollar was paid to the state on the basis of those contributions they made. Who actually handles this land? Who does that? Is it Al Ravafed or is it Al Dahra or is it a third firm? It's about phantom companies that we don't know anything about, and we can't get information about who actually manages the land of the Republic of Serbia that we took from our couples who regularly paid rents and worked, paid a lot more than they should pay the Arabs. Give them 60 euros per hectare, and now we don't even know who's doing it or what. Then we shouldn't be surprised when you ask questions about who owns this land. When institutions don't give answers then, of course, when there are no answers from the authorities, then there are all kinds of stories going around, is this land being handled by Prime Minister Andrej Vukic's brother, is there anyone else, but that's going to be... (Chairman: Mr. Alexic... . )......................................................................................................... Interrupt the moment when the authorities come out and say that, behold, the results of the Agreement with the Arab Emirates, with "Al Ravaphed", "Al Dahra" or any other firm are so. We gave the land. In 2014, we got that, in 2015 it, in 2016 it. Unfortunately, it seems that you have nothing to say and we're going now with new agreements like this with the country of Qatar, which with the exact same concern we can assume can lead to the same results, that we don't know what lies behind these agreements that you put before us here. The bottom line is that all these agreements, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, are neither current at a given time, nor constitute the essence of further development and the functioning of the Republic of Serbia and parliament. Simply, they're on the agenda now because someone wanted us to have a agenda like this, that we have laws proposed by opposition MPs today, they're not proposed by the government, because the government doesn't have time to deal with obviously laws and the state, because it has to deal with elections. Since 2012, we have been in individual elections each year, and this is about the main obsession and something that the government of Aleksandr Vukic is dealing with, and here today I see some ministers who have become ministers in the last government, and before them over 40 ministers in different governments have changed, so of course we can't talk about their... (President: colleague, please on the agenda. On the agenda, continue the discussion. Leave the ministers alone. They're here. They'll answer questions. Ask them questions. No, no, no. I don't ask questions. I was just commenting that what I'm saying to some ministers... I know, I understand. You were talking about the election, and that's what you're always afraid of. Go on. Yes. So, I generally think that this kind of work, and now I'm talking to you, the chairman, because you've proposed this agenda and I ask you not to be on the agenda of these points that don't make sense and that they're united, and that each other has nothing to do with it, so that we can seriously discuss it and that the agreements of course come on the agenda when they're signed, not four or five years after the entry into force of these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14360	The word has a minister. Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14361	Mr. Chairman, it is difficult to answer when unfortunately you have so many misinformations, so many things that are completely out of the truth, which are completely out of the agenda, as you have had the opportunity to see that whenever there is no argument then the name or brother of Prime Minister Vukic is mentioned, without any evidence, just as an attempt to criminalise that man, without giving any evidence of saying anything, but said – then we will see it. Imagine if I told someone in this room -- you know, maybe he's dealing drugs, but we'll see. What would that look like? Is such a way of serious debate in this home? The other thing, it was about the election. What's the problem, I'm sorry, with the elections the opposition has asked for so many times? So many times ask -- let's check out the people's will, let's go to the election. I guess there's a price choice in the democratic system. The people's will test is never wrong. The people say what they think. I know what's wrong with the election. The problem is when some candidates get 0.32%, 1.12%, 1.15%, 1.04%, 2.29%, 4.48%, 5.56% and then the highest-ranked opposition candidate gets 16.36% and Aleksandar Vucic gets 56%. Then that's the problem, and then it's probably the election, or better yet, it's the people's fault, it's the people's fault why the people vote in such a way, who even let the people vote like that. Then we should go to a new election. He says, "Let's go to a new election." Then we come to Parliament and they say, "So you do the elections." People, you're looking for them all the time. You're looking for elections all the time, and we keep going to the elections, we keep going to those elections. As far as the agreement is concerned, I must tell the People's Parliament that the agreement did not come into force before it was adopted by the National Assembly. That's the point, if the agreements had come into effect, we wouldn't be in front of us today. They are before the National Assembly to decide whether to enter into force. That's the point. You can't call agreements what you called them and the minors said they were unnecessary, that we shouldn't even discuss when these agreements greatly affect the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Agreements ahead of us from internal affairs regulate police co-operation in the fight against illegal migration, making police more effective in fighting organised crime, in the fight against drug traffickers. So should we throw that in the water? Shouldn't we be working on it? I can see why it wouldn't work out for some. That's completely clear to me. I understand that. I've had a chance to see here that the protests that take place are not protests from students or students' organisations, because students' organisations themselves have declared that they are not involved. This is where the people who are defeated are representatives of political parties, headquarters, etc. political candidates. And most of these people do interviews in the media. They appear in the media. They give their estimates of protests, interviews, and then when they appear in some newspapers they say – what you publish their pictures. Well, they want people, so they do interviews themselves, they show up as bearers of it. I guess they're proud of what they're doing. I guess they're not ashamed of what they're involved in. I'd be ashamed, and they're not ashamed. We also have a situation here that the largest outflow of young people from this country was from 2008 to 2012, and I will tell you why. During that period, people lost jobs per minute, 400,000 jobs were lost in Serbia. Well, what do these young people live on? They can't live off just walking down the street. They have to do something, and when you lose 400,000 jobs, then it's completely impossible to keep these people in Serbia and that's why the biggest outflow was from 2008 to 2012. Just in the years when the biggest drug dealers in this country were prominent investors, so their drug investments were counted on GDP growth, drug dealers who were not allowed to touch were on the list of prominent citizens. No one should have looked at them a little sharper, looked at them while buying buildings, invested in fields, built and built. No one was allowed to look at them, so this government went into a tough fight against them, so this government arrested them, so this government decided to deal with drug-drafficing. We were in action against corruption, as it was discussed, in action against corruption only in 2016 was arrested by the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar, then the President of the Supreme Court in Sapac, President of the General Court in Loznica, Judge of the General Court in Loznica, head of the police administration in Šapec. Excuse me, when was this done in one year? What year did someone go into serious high-corruption work? The prosecution of organized crime and the police, that's what it is, when you go to bring in those who can decide, those who can influence corruption. When was that? Who was arrested in the previous period? What bigger drug dealer? Which one's more serious? We're confiscating four tons of drugs last year. How long has it been seized before? Where are these results of the wonderful fight against corruption and crime? They were gone because there was no determination of that authority. It was of no interest to the people when they sold drugs to children in schools, nor when they traded, nor when the tycoons became the owners of this country. They weren't interested, all those who did power weren't interested. This government is interested, this government is interested. As far as the verdict is concerned, the verdicts have begun. The verdicts have begun, I don't want to put pressure on the courts, let the courts work at the speed they think they should. We have a verdict on Boris Novakovic, the first serious corruption verdict in Novi Sad, the first serious verdict, the prison sentence for what the court ruled to be corruption and crime. The court ruled and the verdicts began. There are no such stories - only arrests have no convictions, and there are both indictments and indictments and convictions and that has begun and it is good that those who have put their hands in the pockets of Serbian citizens have begun to receive the fines they deserve. The people were afraid that it would never come while some were in power, now there is. As for some, some centres have been mentioned here, which have run some tests, so these people are participating in protests, some support political statements by some presidential opposition candidates, so of course they'll say so. There's no "o" from objective, but that's okay. We don't mind, just don't make it a serious argument, there's no serious argument. I've been reading these texts, analysis. It's an analysis at primary school level. There's nothing serious about that, but no specific example, nothing serious. As far as the agreement is concerned, these agreements, I would say, have allowed Serbia to be even more effective. We've opened 130,000 new jobs, we're opening factories, we're making the country safe, and I think that's the biggest contribution that the government makes to Serbia moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14362	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14363	Thank you. I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 106, third position and Article 108, first position. I think that you, Mr. Chairman, have severely injured this Rules of Procedure, allowing and demonstrating now exactly the double standards that make it a good part, not only of the opposition MPs, but also of the public dissatisfied with the way the National Assembly is run. A colleague, Alexic, spoke a lot about the subject, and perhaps with some line of association, he came out a little bit, which is both logical and normal when the opposition's political representatives speak. You warned him, warned him, literally every moment. You've interrupted him at least five times. Now Mr Stefanovic has been speaking incessantly broad and extensively beyond the agenda theme, regardless of what he is also expressing his political stance, while he is even a guest in this parliament. You missed the chance to warn him one time. That's the point, you don't need to apply for three minutes. This is what everyone who's watching, this transmission, can see. There's no need to measure the cantar at all. It's those double arches. That's why you're unhappy, that's why you have protests, not because someone organized them from here or from the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14364	Col. Vukadinovic, I agree with you that I violated the Rules of Procedure when the MP spoke about Belgrade on water, student demonstrations, the departure of graduate students abroad, the failed fight against corruption, the elections, Al Dahra etc., not to mention, I have broken it all. Because I broke the Rules of Procedure and did not give my colleague Alexic a warning, I gave the right to have Minister Stefanovic answer the question that my colleague Alexic asked. When you understand that, perhaps one day you will also chair in this National Assembly. I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt. My friend Alexic, you just got answers to your questions, you don't have the right to a replica. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14365	I've had a lot of opportunities here to hear, but what made the impression, and what's very important to know, that the citizens of Serbia know, and I believe the MPs know, why do these agreements so much and why these agreements on the agenda? They certainly have one thing in common and very important, which is that these are international agreements. Therefore, if someone thinks that we should not have relations with other countries from bilateral agreements or ratification of important conventions, then this is a serious problem for these political groups. However, it is very important for our government to have the best relations with the region and to ratify many of the conventions ahead of us. What is also important, because of the citizens of Serbia, I report first and foremost, and I will report in the future that the citizens of Serbia would hear what they really are, which is supported by the data, facts and information that have been verified, and not by the story, because everything we have heard from the MPs from the beginning was the blackest possible, and on the other hand we have everything, not just international financial institutions, relevant institutions that have assessed economic policy, political stability and everything that this Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing far above anything else, even what other governments in the region have done, or even what governments have done before the government led Alexander Vukic. The flood story is very important because a few data, and this Parliament had all of us ministers together with the Prime Minister when we talked and reported what we were doing in 2014 in those terrible floods that happened, and I'm sure the previous governments had made sure that they were clean weeds, that they were doing everything that was supposed to be done in the infrastructure in the bar we wouldn't have the kind of problems we had in 2014. For your information, only in the last two years, the Serbian government has invested two billion dinars in local infrastructure alone in the fight against floods, for your information, in the last 30 years there have been no clean crusts of very important rivers such as Kolubara, Tamnava and the Borska River, it has been cleaning and handling this government and local self-government. Forty years or 30 years, sorry, no channels in local self-government are arranged, and everyone here knows it very well. This government has arranged it in such a way that we cannot talk about today that such problems can happen. At the very end, it seems to me that in addition to Serbia's finances being completely submerged before 2014, the other previous governments that were, just in the event of a flood, it seems to me that Serbia would be completely submerged and flooded. Serbia is respected today, above all, the state, Serbia today has economic indicators that are not the rules of the Serbian government, it has been working to show these indicators, but all of the world's international institutions have made comparisons and said what the Serbian government has done. So when we talk about something and when we talk about that in every segment, and what the MP was saying, there's a terrible corruption, let's talk about facts, because it's not true first. Every thing you mentioned in your speech about corruption, about floods, and about these agreements having nothing to do with each other is not true, and that's what Serbian citizens should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14366	Thank you. Injured by the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14367	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Is there something going on? Therefore, Article 2 of Article 108 – due to a breach of order at the session of the President of the National Assembly, may give rise to measures of reminder, confiscation of words or distance from the session. I call on you, Mr. Chairman, to draw attention to the ministers that they cannot lecture and lecture the MPs because they have not chosen us, but this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministers and would have had a little less arrogance to address this high home and the most important state institution of Serbia. I would also like to draw your attention to Article 229, which should be your obligation to remind them, because if you could draw attention to this member, I believe that with much less arrogance we would speak here in front of the National Assembly. What does this member say? "The Minister informs the National Assembly's competent committee on the work of the Ministry once every three months. At the meeting of the Committee of Issues, the Minister of Indigenous Information may be appointed by members of the Committee," etc., etc. Please state to me a minister present here or from the Government of the Republic of Serbia who filed his three-month work report. Give me a congregation committee that sat down, where they answered the questions of the MPs. Today they came here to teach folk MPs, and for a month and a half they were gone, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was abolished. But that's why state cars went to party conventions and held rallys all over Serbia. I ask you, Mr. Chairman, I really well-intentionedly warn you, I respect your position to be democratic and give you the chance to give a little broader speeches and MPs to the opposition and ministers to respond, which I fully support, but I ask you to draw attention to the ministers that they have not yet filed a report on their work, and more than six months have been ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So far, they've had to file two reports, we've had meetings of the competent assembly committees, and that information comes here for the feast. Such a thing has not been done and it is proof of what these ministers are in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14368	As for Article 229, colleagues Obradovic, reports are submitted, and you see this with the presidents of the competent working bodies. You don't need to inform the National Assembly. As for Article 108, to give notices and not to ministers respect the National Assembly and the People's MPs, I do not share your opinion because both ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia have answered the questions asked by counterpart Alexic. If it's for you to understand the debate that someone is asking a question and the question is that the answer, which, by the way, is not true, and that whoever has the information does not give him an answer, is not democracy. Marko Djurisic: Why don't you give me your word? This is democracy. Give me your word. ) A fellow MP asked his questions, received answers, and that is it. (Marco Djurisic: No, he received false answers. You're the ones who are relevant whether they're fake or correct. (Marco Djurisic: No, you're merodative.) I think it's the only nation that's relevant, that they're Serbia's citizens, and they're going to decide in the next parliamentary elections when they are. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14369	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Article 103, more stuff, but first of all, I'd like to point to attitude 8. Now, let me tell you right now, I'm personally pleased with the answer you've given me right now, and don't take this as any sort of transfer or criticism on my part, but this is something I'd simply like to draw attention to, first of all, to you, but also to the MPs who seem to be unaware of, although they've been MPs long enough, that some things here should be respected, that there are some rules here and that there are certain consequences if these rules are not respected. So that attitude, Mr. Chairman, to which I wanted to point out this occasion, speaks on the subject of these consequences. He says that when there is a abuse of the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, it can be left with no time for further discussion. If there is a parliamentary group, and I would estimate that there is, it is my free estimate, whether there are or not very many of them, and I agree, it is hard to determine these days, because there are many transitions from one to the next, there is no longer any one to support, who is working for, not to say who pays for whom, I would never say that, but there is no chance to point out in the Rules of Procedure a way to treat his personal frustration because he got 2.2% in the elections, so he advertises Article 2,29 or 229, what did he say? Yes, it's easy to mix those numbers, because it's about this level of support some get, and then, without knowing what they're going to do with themselves, they're going to raise the Rules of Procedure to get a little bit of direct transfer, so they can replicate to the ministers and teach us something that they didn't do themselves. I don't think that's something we should allow, Mr. Chairman. So I suggest that, in accordance with this attitude 8, whenever something like this happens, we take away either 2.2 or 2.4 but two minutes away from time by the abuse of the pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14370	Don't be a colleague, they'd say it's a dictatorship. Let it go. They'll immediately say it's a dictatorship and we'll have hundreds of thousands of citizens outside the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14371	I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and you have broken it, Mr. Chairman, because you have not given me the right to reply to my misreading, on your part, you have twice mentioned my name and name, interpreted what I have spoken of and not given me the right to reply, which I absolutely have the right to in this Rules of Procedure. And you confirmed it. Whether I was talking about "Belgrade on Water", whether it was about demonstrations, or about land in Vojvodina, it was all about the agenda points I was talking about. Afterwards, the minister responded to me, also misreading my words, talking about drug dealers that some investors used to be, talking about how they were arrested, how you actually arrested them all, just forgot to say what happened to the Cosmajec who was the biggest drug dealer, who was arrested by this government not to pay taxes on some land, how come the tycoons are no longer Bogoljub Karic and the others who speak to you at conventions and some before them... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14372	My colleague Alexic, I beg you to speak to the Rules of Procedure. (Miroslav Aleksic: I speak by the Rules of Procedure. Don't talk about the Rules of Procedure, you're saying other things. (Miroslav Aleksic: You have violated the Rules of Procedure. Don't explain it to me, please. I believe that the advertised member of 104 has not been broken, and that is because you have received answers to questions. Ask a question, you get an answer. There are 250 MPs here, if everyone asks for one round of questions and answers, I don't mind, but you'll get tired soon. The word is Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are now attending the distraction. So someone works and builds, someone walks and bothers, I can't forbid them. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising Articles 105, 106 and 107. Especially the dignity of the National Assembly. Several speakers spoke here, we listened to the great size of Milutovac, where his wolf descendant received two whole votes. And he's giving us a lecture here, and I think it's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. He was assisted by Bosko Pernar, a man in front of whom women fall just like that, which is from physical, which is from verbal violence. And he's talking about arrogance. He severely injured the dignity of the National Assembly because he entered the Municipality of Pećinci on March 28th with 50 of his members, attacked the portentium of the disabled, telling him that he should kneel before three MPs. He entered the Pecinci municipality building, refused to leave, and was harassing the secretary of the Pecinci municipality's Assembly who ended up in the ER. For these reasons, simply women can't resist him. They're either physically harassed or psychotic. Anyway, after his fact about the weaker half, they mostly end up on an ambulance. So I think that in the future, Mr. President, the dignity of the National Assembly has been severely injured and that in the future, Mr. President, you have to take care of such democratic sizes and that, according to what Orlic asked you to do, you reject those two minutes, even if it costs me those two minutes now, but in the future, you refuse those two minutes for every abuse of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14374	I don't think there's been a breach of any of the rules of the Rules of Procedure that you've listed, for the reason that the event was outside the National Assembly. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14375	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to talk about a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on the navigation of the Tis. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on the navigation of the Tis River was signed in Nis, 21 November 2016. This agreement provides that the Tis River navigation is free and open to the navigation of vessels of contracted parties and of all states, regardless of the flag of the ship. A regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the determination of international and interstate waterways, Tisa River is an interstate waterway on which the international navigation regime applies throughout the course of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. From 0 to 164 kilometers. I should once again point out that this means that the waterway on the Tis River is free and open to ships of all states regardless of the flag of the ship. Confirmation of the agreement constitutes a long-term legal basis for further improving relations between the two countries, given that it is in line with international standards of navigation and with the applicable international contracts. Its entry into force will cease to apply to the agreement between the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the People's Republic of Hungary on the navigation of the Tis, which was signed on 9 March 1955. This agreement has been valid for more than 60 years. Confirmation of this agreement will create conditions for the inclusion of the Tisa River in the trans-European waterway network, which is a good basis for developing bilateral co-operation and good neighbourly relations, as well as a basis for further development of water traffic. I need to give you one piece of information here, that this agreement has already been ratified by the Hungarian Parliament. Why is this agreement important? The agreement is important for harmonising Serbia with the legal assets of Chapter 21 and with new infrastructure, EU policy, i.e. connecting all modes of transport with the trans-European transport network. The agreements are also important because of the inclusion of the Tisa River in the trans-European waterway network, a prerequisite for participation in the European funds for the financing of strategic projects. The agreement is important because of the involvement of Vojvodina municipalities in cross-border co-operation projects to exploit the status of the Tisa River as an international waterway and joint planning create conditions for these municipalities to improve water and transport infrastructure, to improve standard environmental protection, but also to benefit from profits in trade, to benefit from the transport of passengers and goods and to generate income from tourism. It should also be pointed out that on Tisa River there is no port for passenger traffic. The built docks are only for goods transport. One of the largest and most important ports on the Tisa River is in my hometown in Sainta. The city itself has excellent road and rail traffic. A road and railway bridge has been joining northern Bacakh and northern Banat since 1963. As far as the port itself is concerned, the port of Senta has about 18,000 square metres of closed warehouse, with 1,300 square metres of which are public customs warehouses. In addition to closed storage spaces, there are open storage spaces in the size of about 20,000 square meters, and of which five thousand square meters are customs warehouses. The annual freight capacity of this port is one million and 500 tonnes of goods. It's about grains, cattle, dried turnip noodles and various rinfu goods. In addition to the possibility of goods transport, Tisa River has exceptional potential for developing nautical tourism. A few years back, even the seasonal line is organized by a high-class, so-called high-class boat. a cruiser, on the line from Budapest to Tokaj, which proves interest, as well as the possibility of a significant improvement in water traffic tourism. The strategy of developing the water transport of the Republic of Serbia from 2015 to 2025 provides for the opening of 16 new passenger ports, ten on the Danube, two on the Sava and four on Tisa in 2017, which is in the cities of Titel, Becej, Senta and Kanjiz. The Tisa River route is fully marked in accordance with applicable international regulations, but unfortunately there are no officially declared navigation security facilities. I'm talking about wintershakes, shelters and anchors here. I would like to reiterate here the possibility of participation in tenders written in various European funds to finance the construction of strategic projects, as I said. building these objects here, such as winters, shelters, or anchors. For today's ports in the Republic of Serbia, the relatively poor state of port infrastructure is characterized, while the port's superstructure is outdated, resulting in low quality overload operations, non-productive, inefficient, long-term and unfortunately increasing costs for both users and service providers. The strategy for the development of water transport of the Republic of Serbia envisions improving existing port infrastructures. Finally, SVM MPs will vote in the voting day for the agreement, as well as other agreements on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14376	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, you have received resignations from the MPs Bojan Pajtic, Marko Milenkovic and Marko Blagojevic as a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly on the examination of these paragraphs, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of MPs and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88(3) and 4th of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of these MPs. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time on which the MPs Bojan Pajtic, Mark Milenkovic and Mark Blagojevic were elected on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14377	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I would like to go before I start just to warn the chairman, Mr. Arsic. Namely, Mr. Arsic, if Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic is a doctor, then Sanda Raskovic Ivić is also a doctor, as well as Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic. (Vojislav Seselj: Have you received a doctorate together? ) I can say for myself that I received my doctorate at the Belgrade University of Medical School on July 5, 1993. I don't know about Zorana, but I'm saying for myself, so please, I just don't suffer from it, but if one doctor is a doctor, then other doctors of science should be doctors. Anyway, I'm glad we finally got a chance to work and discuss these agreements. I am sorry that today on the fourth anniversary of the signing of the Brussels Agreement, we are not talking about this very important agreement that has come to an impasse rather than other agreements, but well, let it remain open because we are already as a parliamentary group and as more parliamentary groups from the opposition asked to talk about the Brussels Agreement in the light of Chapter 35 and to do so a special session. I'll be back on the subject now. I would refer to two agreements, since the debate is united, it is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on security co-operation and the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the State of Qatar. So, as Minister Stefanovic said, I won't repeat it, I'm just going to say that this agreement was signed in Berlin a year ago on 22 March 2016 and that this is about co-operation in the area of the fight against organised crime. What is good in this agreement, which is that by reading this text, I did not find a provision based on which Germany could at some point deport a number of migrants from its territory to Serbia. There's a lot of talk here in this agreement about reciprocity. However, it is clear to all of us that this reciprocity is completely formal. The question is whether reciprocity is even possible, essential reciprocity, in a situation where there is one huge disproportionate between political and economic and military and any other power of Germany, on the one hand, and on the other. However, what I would like to comment on is a formulation in Article 2 which speaks about forms of co-operation where, in particular, in point 3, I will quote – each of the parties, at the request of the other, will implement the measures allowed in accordance with the provisions of their national legislation, which may authorise the presence of representatives of the competent authorities of the other party. So, I repeat, it is possible to approve the presence of representatives of the competent authorities of the other party. What are the authorities when it comes to the Federal Republic of Germany? These are the Federal Ministry of Interior, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Health, the Federal Criminal Service, the Federal Police Directorate, the Customs Criminal Service and the Federal Institute for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. My question is – exactly what are the representatives of the competent authorities of the other party present on our territory doing, hypothetically speaking, when implementing the operational measures? I was a little associated with the ultimatum that Austria sent to Serbia in 1914 after the Sarajevo assassination. Of course, this was unilateral, and this is where our bodies on the territory of Germany and the German authorities on the territory of Serbia are foreseen, but I am going back to that formal reciprocity that is not essentially reciprocity. I think it is entirely justified to ask this question, above all, because Article 9 of this Agreement should be taken into account, which precisely defines the status of so-called liaison officers. So we have liaison officers. It says this - a foreign Contracting Party may, if necessary, send liaison officers to the police authorities of the other Party, with the agreement of the other Contracting Party. So the liaison officers have an advisory function, we know that and it's explained, and they provide assistance without the right to exercise police powers on the territory of the other side of the Contracting Party. If we already have liaison officers, then I wonder why we need representatives of the competent authorities and why these powers are not defined by the authorities of these other authorities. Of course, I would look back here when I talk about this agreement with Germany and the agreement with Poland. It is interesting, for example, that the Agreement with Poland was signed in 2009, and only now comes to the agenda, and the agreement is also on the fight against organised crime and other types of crime. It says it foresees the possibility for the competent authorities of the parties to exchange liaison officers, but not more than that. Then why is this playful and quite widespread with Germany? I would now move on to this second agreement, and that is the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Qatar on mutual incentive and protection of investment. This agreement, like all agreements, of type character and its provisions, guarantees investors of natural and legal persons from Qatar and Serbia national treatment, as well as the treatment of the most privileged nation with full protection and security of investment. Here we have one of the items of reciprocity and here, as in this agreement with Germany, it doesn't exactly stand because we can't like Serbia and as Serbian businessmen to enter this race in Qatar as investors from Qatar can come here. Of course, I have nothing against foreign investment, I just think foreign investments should be even with domestic investors. But what our MP group is transferring and where there are objections is quite an intransparency of this agreement because we know that outgoing President Nikolic was in Qatar and we read in the paper that Qatar, for example, is interested in agrarian, for Bistrica, for Djerdap III, for PKB, for 36 Serbian spas, for the purpose industry, so that we here have the impression that in this agreement, which is actually a one-way street and which is made for cataract investors in Serbia, they open doors to them, and that kind of big door, for the sale of public goods. Especially as we know, and this is also mentioned in the media, that the cataract companies that are interested in investing here in Serbia mention the Qatar Electricity and Water Company and some other companies owned by the Tani family, it's a significant ruling family, so there's actually a non-transparent agreement here that will allow the cataract family to make big investments here. Bad languages and some media are reporting and money laundering could occur in this case. I'll remind you that Crick was speaking offshore about Sinisha Mali's companies and whether a new case of offshore companies is now being prepared here as well. I would also refer here to the situation around KIM as well as to this agreement. So, if we see in Article 1 of the definition, meaning Article 1 of the definition in point 5) the notion of territory is defined as follows, I will read to you – for the Republic of Serbia territory over which the Republic of Serbia exercises sovereign rights, jurisdiction in accordance with its national legislation and international law, and for the State of Qatar territory, these are internal waters, territorial seas, country Qatar seabed, underground, airspace, above them an economic zone and the continental part on which the State of Qatar exercises sovereign rights and jurisdiction in accordance with its national legislation and international law. So here it enters the eyes that defining the territory is quite a shame when it comes to Serbia, and that it is very detailed when it comes to Qatar. As we know that Qatar is one of the countries that is a major funder and a major sponsor of Kosovo's independence, a question can rightly be asked to treat the investment of the country's KIM in terms of the provisions of this agreement. Whether it would be treated as an investment in the state of Serbia or be treated as an investment in so-called investment. Kosovo's independent false state? As for the incentive and protection of investments, there is something else I would draw attention to, and that is in Article 3(2), says – Each Party Party will, in accordance with its laws and regulations whenever it is necessary to provide for the authorisation of those necessary for the work of advisers and other qualified persons with foreign citizenship. So, at first, I said I had nothing against foreign investment. I have a problem with that, I repeat, that these investments are hugely paid by 10,000 euros per job, that our investors do not have the same conditions, but now I see here that a new topic is being introduced, and that is the theme of encouraging the employment of foreign citizens. Do we really need this hiring of foreign citizens? Of course, the answer is no. Of course, we have many of our unemployed, many young people leaving the country, so I believe that several provisions of this agreement are not right and that this agreement is extremely harmful and bad for the Serbian apartment. And in the end I would ask the question – How many more schools with the name "Holy Sava" will change on behalf of Binzayed or any other name of a cathartic giant, from the Tani family or perhaps from another significant family, so that we can bring investors from Qatar here, and that Serbia does not really have a national or economic position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14378	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14379	Honorable MPs, related to the competent state authorities of our and German alliances and the MUPs, who most often act in joint operational proceedings, why they are formed in accordance with the law, joint investigative teams, competent prosecutors and police authorities carrying out these investigations. There is sometimes a need for the presence of one or other authorities in the territory of another country in the sense of conducting an investigation. Unfortunately, I have to say that there are many more citizens of our country who commit crimes in Germany's territory than there are German citizens who commit crimes on our country's territory. And in joint operational proceedings, in which the years of freedom have been deprived, our citizens in the territory of the Republic of Germany are mostly deprived, something on our behalf, and something on the grounds of the Federal Republic of Germany. As for the liaison officer, therefore, they cannot carry out independent, operational police work, they serve only to facilitate communication. You know that, you were an ambassador to Rome, we and there have a police liaison officer. So, you know what their business is, however, and those who come to our territory, who participate in joint investigation teams or other work, in accordance with our legislation, can work and only take those actions that we agree with and which we approve. So only the Republic of Serbia can do that. In principle, today's times are impossible to co-operate with the processing of serious criminal groups without co-operation in the territory of the whole of Europe. Without the information they possess, let me say, the police in several countries where these operational and criminal organised criminal groups work, it's impossible to see only from one country's vision. That's why Germany and we used to ask for help and cooperation, sometimes our people go to Germany to help with these teams. Sometimes German colleagues are here. One time they were, we even had, we did it publicly, we showed them at the border, they helped in times of the greatest migrant crisis, they helped identify documents. There were also doubts that some of the documents were falsified when leaving our country, entering the EU, their experts for, to say, documents, for original papers, primarily German work permits and passports helped and trained our border police people to spot these counterfeits. I think it was an example of good co-operation. We also have reverse examples. We, by agreement, have, say, ten police officers on the territory of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia at the border with Greece. Our ten border police officers are in another country and are working to secure the state border of another country, precisely because it is the interest of the Republic of Serbia. So we also agree to ensure the safety of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I want to assure you that there is absolutely nothing controversial here, nothing problematic. Depends on what country, depends on what the current interest is. Where we have more, unfortunately, organised criminal groups there is more co-operation being established, with countries where there have been no cases, that their citizens are committing crimes on the territory of that country, there has been no such intensive co-operation. Simply, it's a police job, there was no need to exchange that kind of information, or there was nothing to exchange. Mr. Chairman, I just want to say to you, given the mention of the Dragoslav Kosmajca case, the Dragoslav Kosmajca case is today under trial before the Supreme Court in Belgrade. I am sorry that he has not been led perhaps some earlier years, there may be more evidence collected, because these crimes have not been committed 2013/2014. years rather than long before, but apparently there was no political or any other willingness to go after it at the time. Now he's being prosecuted and Al Capone's been arrested, and for the evasion of defeat, he's not arrested for everything he's done because they could provide evidence for it. We in the Republic of Serbia can only act where there is enough evidence and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14380	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14381	Mr President, honourable MPs, I would like to say a few words, and it is about this proposal of the law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Qatar on mutual incentives and investment protection, but not only in the context of this agreement that you have spoken of but in the broader context of investments without which we absolutely as a state cannot at this moment. Not wanting to favor anyone, any investor, we're talking about full investment in the space of the whole world. Having a $170 billion investment fund is, you'll agree, what is the Qatar Investment Fund's extremely large amount of funds. We put this agreement, we create a legal framework so that we can get the investments we need. Whether it will happen depends on the innovation, the inventory of our, their desires, the need. But I want to say one other thing. In order to continue our development at this point and further strengthen the development of our economy, we had up to 1.8 billion euros in inflows of foreign investment in 2015, in 2016 we had 5.5% more, not full of two billion. We need more investment. All investors who have good faith and who have capital that is good, which is fresh, we need for one simple reason to hire our people. These areas you mentioned earlier, in which they showed interest, you just mentioned agriculture, IT, tourism, God forbid there are investors in our Banjski tourism sector who want to invest, because we need investment there. I'd look back on one thing, and I'm sorry there's not a colleague here who just spoke. Apparently, someone comes in here, just says what's going on and turns around and goes away. I think we should listen all the time and I think it's our job, but, my God, it's for another story now. There were reports of floods in 2014. A lot of money was invested and a colleague talked about it earlier, but I want to point out a few things that happened. Today, the topic is current, and I want to inform both you and the public that the engagement of the Serbian company today in the area of Serbia is a completely peaceful situation, and one part of it is worth investing in the previous two years. For two years, there's been a lot of investment in different river flows. I'm only going to mention one characteristic example. Remember all the Lucians? Every time the April moon comes, whether it rains in Serbia or not, there has always been a problem in Luciani. Now that investment is being realized. The Serbian government has given 300 million dinars and there are works under way, they will be finished here during the year and the complete system of Luciana and that military complex, that is, where the dedicated industry is, will be fully protected and we will no longer have that problem. So, to talk, to bring up facts that don't stand, I don't talk to you here, but I'm talking about some previous exhibitions, I don't think it's right, first of all because of public harassment, I want to say once again, today in Serbia the situation is hydrologically good. Today, we signed an agreement with the governments of Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro on the joint management of the Drin River, on an early warning system from floods, and at all the river Drina. And we got funding from the Green Climate Fund all together to build some new defense systems both on the Drina and on Lima and on some other rivers, to protect ourselves in the coming years, because we need it. Twenty, thirty years in that system isn't invested at all. We have a lot to do, in the end line, which is why we changed the Water Act in December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14382	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14383	I see here that a contract is being signed with Qatar, or an agreement with Qatar, because Qatar has recognised Kosovo and Metohija. That's where he should be consistent. If we're going to take that as a criterion, then why don't we say that the United States is the largest sponsor of Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and then we end every contract and agreement with the United States? That should not be said by those who, after the parliamentary elections, were the first to run to the US ambassador on their minds and for protection and whenever they wanted to criticise their country, ran for their minds and for protection to the United States or another representative of the international community, who also recognised Kosovo and Metohija. I will remind you, when false independence was recognised by Kosovo and Metohija, that the ambassador of Montenegro and some others were expelled from this country, but was never expelled, for example, by the ambassador of the United Kingdom or the United States. I'd just like to pray that we behave in principle. If it's Qatar, then it's the same arches that treat him like any other country that has confessed to KIM. Don't attack this agreement with such an explanation. This is good for our country. This is good to invest in our country. This is good for money to enter our country and it's good for it to come from every other side, especially not from those who are the first to do anything whenever they have a problem with their voters or have a problem with election results, run to the US ambassador to seek help and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14384	The word of the People's Messenger is Dr. Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14385	I don't think Minister Vulin should be making these statements here. I know there are parties here, or MPs who have found themselves in the National Assembly... (President: Please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... The will of the American ambassador. But who gave the American ambassador the right to put MPs in the National Assembly? Well, those election nights you let him do it. You've retreated, you've retreated, you've never dared to stand up. That's why Scott's MPs are in the National Assembly today. I can understand Scott, maybe next time he'll want a hundred of his deputies. Even many of you can turn very easily into your own. But I can't understand those who succumb to that pressure, give in, and then the hero. We worked hard that night, and we wanted Scott to stay out of Scott's way, and now Scott put a group of MPs in here, it's up to you to rock them, to nurse them, to watch over them, not to cry out for having to admit babies that aren't yours. Besides, the DNA analysis, so let's see if the Scotts, if they're yours, if they're these, if they're them. What's it to us? You allowed Scott's MPs to be in the National Assembly. Don't fight it now. If you were a hero, if you were firm, determined, if you had said, you could not treat Serbia like this, and they would not be in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14386	I'd just like to ask you, colleague Seselj, for the next time to say a member of the Rules of Procedure who you consider to have been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14387	Article 107, she told Natasha instead of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14388	And she said Natasha? Okay. The word was requested by counterpart Sanda Raskovic Ivić. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14389	I have the right to a replica... (President: You have not mentioned one. ) There is no name mentioned, but indeed, believe me, we are tired of listening to an American ambassador group put into the assembly. First, we listen to it now and from Dr Vojislav Seselj, and that night the SRS just announced that our DSS-Dveri list has 6.8%. For Minister Vulin, Mr. Minister, whenever you don't have an argument for something... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14390	You have no right to a replica. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14391	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Ministers, who have not submitted a report on their work for six months, I would first like to express my joy at the relaunch of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the first working day of 2017, which clearly speaks about your relationship with the most important state institution. I suppose the government would prefer that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not have at all and that there is no criticism of the authorities, but here we are and the voice of the opposition is heard, no matter how much you would like to definitely shut it down. What is very important to hear Serbia's citizens is that today you have rejected more than 50 draft laws proposed by the opposition's MPs, and that you put 12 international agreements here on the agenda that definitely do not have that vitality for Serbian citizens such as these 50 draft laws proposed by the opposition today for the agenda. The fact is that you avoid the most important topics of life in Serbia and use the National Assembly meetings to talk about everything, except what is most important in Serbia. So today we have these 12 international agreements, which if they were so important, we would have adopted them a month and a half ago. They are of no importance to you, which in some way offended the partner countries with which we have concluded these co-operation agreements, because you have shown that these agreements are of no importance to you and that they can only be postponed for a month and a half for your party, political points and the abolition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is very convenient to compare the importance of these topics that we are discussing today with other topics that are important in Serbia today. For example, one of the topics we are facing today is the agreement with Qatar on mutual incentive and protection of investment. Tell me, Ministers, what kind of investment are we going to have in the country of Qatar, so is this important to us about mutual incentive and investment? Could we not have discussed here at that time the situation in the Serbian economy, in Serbian agriculture, in the Serbian village, in Serbian education, in Serbian culture or any important topic that should be found on the agenda and not found. There is, for example, membership at the European Forest Institute. Is this more important than the situation facing socially endangered families in Serbia, which private perpetrators are evicting from family homes? Or maybe... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14392	counterpart Obradovic, parliament has decided what topics are at this session, this day, which will be discussed, and you have talked about everything just not the topics that are on the agenda. I let you go for three minutes. It's enough to deal with politics, and now the other 17 minutes I'm asking you to deal with the agenda points we're discussing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14393	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for acknowledging that the topics that are being imposed today by the ruling majority are not life topics that are of interest to the citizens of Serbia, but I will return to them, because I am ready to discuss these topics as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14394	We have the same rights when we vote. My vote is worth as much as yours, and don't insult any more MPs who vote against you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14395	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you a few things. First, when you want to discuss with me, answer the word, go down to the MPs' benches and answer me as a People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14396	I defended the dignity of the National Assembly and the other 249 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14397	Then I ask you not to use my time for your replicas, but to report for your replica, so use your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14398	I'll extend you 15 seconds for what I took from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14399	Thank you. What is here is the fact that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not have the opportunity to discuss life issues because you have abolished this possibility. You've set us up with these 12 topics. It's okay, we'll also talk about these 12 topics, but it's my duty to tell the citizens of Serbia about which you've banned all topics from speaking here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let's just say, one of the very interesting topics that you've imposed on us here, to talk about it, so that no important other life issues are discussed, is the protocol on the elimination of the illegal trade in tobacco products. This is a very important protocol because it is brought by those who have great experience in cigarette smuggling in the 1990s, and these are representatives of the SPS, JUL and all others who were part of one government known for cigarette smuggling, illegal tobacco trafficking and a series of other criminal things that happened in this country in the 1990s. It's really wise. The one who knows best how to smuggle cigarettes, the only one who can pass a protocol on illegal tobacco trade, because he knows best what channels of smuggling are used and you don't have to worry about anything, Mr. Loncar, I didn't mean you. I'll touch you when I analyze the Zemun criminal clan. So what's the key question here is actually -- why did Mrs. Maja Gojkovic have to come back when I got the word? It's one of the important issues we should also discuss. However, the protocol on the elimination of illegal tobacco and tobacco trade in Serbia does not, in fact, talk about the illegal monopoly of foreign companies on the production and trade of tobacco in Serbia. So, you destroyed, all together, various Serbian domestic tobacco factories, you destroyed tobacco production in Serbia and all the monopoly through various robbery privatisations and these foreign investments that you so praise you gave to foreign companies in Serbia. Right now, you're the most concerned with cut-up tobacco dealers in our markets who are living out of it and trying to feed their families. You never entered any side of the company to see if they might smuggle tobacco and show differently what they really import here into Serbia and the way they do business here in Serbia at all. You are always ready to crush an ordinary citizen and a man in Serbia. You are always ready to further tax the people, but you are never ready to enter foreign companies that use us as a cheap workforce, which rob us and profit abroad, which in any other way abuse the monopoly position in this country, because our domestic companies are destroyed because they can't be competitive, because you support foreign companies, not domestic companies. That's why this protocol on the elimination of illegal trade in tobacco products should actually be much more concerned with the illegal monopoly of foreign companies that they have here in our country. For example, the Kyoto Protocol, which you are also dealing with today, because it is the most important topic to be launched today in Serbia in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, deals with useful things in protecting our environment, which is preventing or reducing the emissions of harmful gases. We do not have the problem because our domestic economy has been destroyed, so the emissions of harmful gases in Serbia have been reduced, but that is why we have another problem to increase fuel prices in Serbia and be the first in Europe and the world, but at the highest price of fuel in Europe and the world. That, for example, is also the Kyoto protocol that should be analyzed, because maybe that's your way of stopping all of us driving cars, because we can't pay for expensive fuel anymore and thus reducing the emissions of harmful gases. You also have a security co-operation agreement with Germany, which is exclusively in the interest of Germany, and very little in Serbia's interest. We don't see any chance of protecting this country from an uncontrollable migrant crisis and a huge number of migrants who commit one crime every day or some kind of violence or some kind of theft or some attack on Serbian citizens in this country. If you don't know what I'm talking about, ask the citizens of Shida who have been protesting for days to move the reception center for the migrants you have imposed on that city, or the municipality in Serbia. I would work much more together with the countries of the Visegrad Group, with Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, because they do not agree to quotas and blackmails from Brussels and they know how to oppose Brussels and to protect their national and state interests in the area of security and therefore make much more agreements with them than with anyone else. This is how you make an agreement, which I absolutely support, with Poland in the field of co-operation concerning the fight against organised crime and other forms of crime, but in five years you cannot do anything in Serbia about fighting organised crime and corruption, but you have released all those directly responsible for the robbery and destruction of our country, from Stanko Subotic Canet, via Bogoljub Karic, to Mladjan Dinkic. Now let's move on. It is likely that this will end up on the loose and the Cosmajac, and Saric, and everyone else you have arrested in front of the cameras, and then you have never ended it in any court sentence, nor is there any politician, tycoon or criminal who robbed us in the past 27 years, based on years of imprisonment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14400	Okay. Let me just figure out what agreement it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14401	Mrs. Gojkovic, you're back!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14402	Yes, as you can see.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14403	I'm looking forward to it, I'm looking forward to it, but you won't be long, since your shift's coming up soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14404	That's right. And I wish you the best of your life.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14405	Nice to meet you, So what's really important here, and it's very important to point out, is that these agreements, in fact, you solve international issues, and you haven't solved any domestic, internal, question. You have, say, co-operation with the Bulgarian police, and you have your police and military on the verge of material existence. So, Mr. Stefanovic, first of all, solve the problem of the MUP members, and 150 dinar dinars in the land zone, and everything else you're harassing, in fact, security services in Serbia, and that strike you, only in Europe, strike the military and police, and don't sign agreements that actually serve to talk about everything today, just not what condition our members of the military and police in Serbia are in. Or, say, the area of co-operation with the Czech Republic in the fields of culture, education, youth and sports, which I absolutely support. I will vote in favour of, most of these agreements that benefit this country, but have you settled a domestic issue of culture, education or youth, or are you young in the streets and strike and rebel against the lies in which you live and the inability to live normally in your own country. Why don't you arrange for a reality show and put order into this blight and this disgrace that rules our televisions? Or why Minister Sarcevic does not resign because he wants to sexise our children and imposes on them some kind of educational package that promotes homosexualism and who knows what else in our kindergartens and schools. So, it's a very simple question, do you want to discuss at this House of the National Assembly at least one life issue of Serbia, or will you, in the next assembly sessions, as you do now, impose various agreements that are not of the Serbian state's vital interest? Here, we have another such agreement, a great example of what I'm talking about. We have a social security agreement with Romania. Specify to me which social security you have provided to your own citizens, pensioners whom you have reduced pensions, or employees of the state administration who have reduced salaries, or families that you throw out on the street when they cannot pay their loans or utility services, or any other socially endangered citizen of Serbia today. I ask you a simple thing, why aren't these laws on the agenda at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I understand, of course, that you have your priorities dictated by foreign investors, they're your bosses, the World Bank, the IMF, foreign investors, foreign embassies, they're actually writing laws and agreements that are in their interest. Serbian citizens can't come to your turn. You always have the first IMF, the second is the World Bank, the third is the Western ambassadors, the fourth are foreign investors, and there are no educational workers who have salaries below the republic's average, no pensioners come, no army and no police come. There is no law in this Assembly that deals with the problems of Serbian citizens, you are constantly addressing issues that are in the interest of large-scale capital, such as sailing on the Tis River, which you would really only want to provide cheap transport to our rivers for foreign investors who have come here and who are not enough cheap labour you have given them, are not enough subsidies that you have given them from our money, but now it is necessary for foreign ships to provide free passage through our country. Let's give the whole state a gift to strangers. Let's give them our healing spas, which you want to sell, when, then. Let's give them both Telekom and EPS, and Belgrade Airport, and the PKK, which you want to sell out, let's sell out everything, and we've got nothing left. Let the foreigners rule the state, and we shall be the cheap workforce of a foreign boss. Is that the idea of the country you want us to live in, Mr. Wallin? Is that the idea of how you imagine Serbia in the future? Is that why these contracts and international agreements serve? Or, an example of a mutual assistance agreement, or whatever you call it with Katara, where you want to protect all their interests. Where are our interests? Do we Serbs, and Serbian citizens, have any of our interests in this country? Is it our interest to answer any question asked by protesters, protesters across Serbia for the last 15 days, or are we the only one in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to talk about imposed topics that are not at all a priority in Serbia today. You know why I conclude that, because if these agreements were priority, Madam Chairman, they'd be on the agenda a month and a half ago. This is how you delayed the application of these agreements for a month and a half and thus insulted the countries partners with which we have concluded these agreements, and told them - you are not important to us, it is important that the Assembly does not work during the presidential elections. So that's clear proof how you treat those countries that you want to be partners with. So, you are neither correct nor fair to foreign countries, nor correct and fair to your citizens, because you are avoiding any topic of life on the agenda of the National Assembly, any topic of life relating to the interest of Serbian citizens who are today strikers. Because, don't forget in Serbia today, both educational workers and pensioners and the military and police and students and youth and a complete citizen. At the end of this first part of my address to you, I want to touch one of the very important things that is mentioned in the proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Qatar on mutual incentive and protection of investment. Namely, very interesting, Article 6(1). A proposal for this law, which provides for compensation for business losses due to riots or riots. So, I'm completely in agreement with you, and I think you've made a good assessment that there's going to be a serious rebellion in this country against your government, and that you want to protect the investor from Qatar, because you think there's going to be some kind of unrest here. There will be no unrest here, there is a legitimate opposition civil, people, student and youth rebellion against your authority. It's not a riot, it's called democracy, gentlemen of progress. It's called the right of citizens to express a different opinion than all of us want to impose Alexander Vukic, and we simply won't accept him. Because we are free men, not like you, servants of Alexander Wolfich, who cannot have free opinions. So, I particularly support this provision of this agreement, which you are announcing the rebellion in Serbia, because I think you have noticed and realized that you can no longer be suffered by pensioners or educational workers, or by the military, or by the police, or by the students, or by the youth, or by the citizens of Serbia, who simply do not want to live in your lie. Don't lie to me, Grandma. That is the point of all the protests we welcome today and support across Serbia, because we will no longer tolerate your lies, your arrogance, your corruption, your false stories, your false promises, your electoral theft, your electoral irregularities.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14406	Let's talk about the deal for the end, one more minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14407	That's right. Once again, I fully support an agreement announcing SNS's rebellion against the government in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14408	There's no deal like that. (Employees Vladimir Djukanovic, Neđo Jovanovic and Aleksandar Markovic win from the post: The Rules of Procedure. ) I must give my word to Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, because the promoters first respond, I will give it to you immediately. It's full of leaves, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14409	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I see there are a lot of bile here, a lot of questions which, of course, have nothing to do with the topic of the agenda, but apparently that certain political parties have a problem with legitimacy, and that legitimacy is always at risk when you get 1% in the elections, or 2%, then it is a serious issue of this violated legitimacy and, of course, the representation of the people in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'll leave it to the National Assembly, that's not what my theme is. What I'm saying is, I'm worried about one thing. This is where we talk about foreign investors being pushed. I hear they don't need foreign factories, let's close them down, let's make people bring money. What's our interest in other people coming and investing money here? That's how we hire people, that's how people live, that's how they earn wages. You need to talk to people who have been forced into bankruptcy, who have privatized factories that have destroyed everything that has been, like termites that have passed, nothing left, nothing. Then some people come and open the factory here. It's our factory. The fact that he owns a foreigner, this is where these people pay their taxes, this is where people pay their salaries. Some families support their children from that. Is that enough? Unfortunately, when you lose 400,000 new jobs from 2008 to 2012, then 130,000 is not enough, but it was much better than just a policy that guarantees peace and stability, in which you want the country to live, to move forward, you can guarantee that other people will come to open jobs here, to open a factory. Well, I guess that's what we're fighting for. We fight that young people have jobs, that older people have jobs, that everyone has a job. It's our fight together. As far as confiscation of tobacco, since you talked about it, we seized over 400,000 cases of cigarettes. It's not a cut tobacco. These are 400,000 cases of cigarettes seized in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in actions of the prosecution and police. Because we've been working really hard on it, because it's the money that goes from our schools. When someone smuggles that kind of tobacco, they take it from our children, they take it from schools, from hospitals, from asphalts, instead of going to the budget where we give some local self-government, some school, some home of health. In the last year, he has participated in the opening of so many health centers, a new gamma knife, new departments at the Clinical Center. He'll talk more about it, maybe better, but I think this government is doing very well. That's how money is invested when you have it, when you don't throw it away, when it doesn't go away, when it's not thrown away. Other ministers participated in excellent government activities. As far as the ground safety zone is concerned, I have to tell you that the police have no ground safety zone involvement other than regular engagement. So, the gendarmes units have done a rotation with military units and the gendarmes units are no longer participating in the land's security zone. As far as special engagements are concerned, the special special units of the police are their diaries 1,800 dinars in the territories that are affected, to say, by some kind of elemental accident or having a special threat to excessive exceptional immigration or any other matter. We've made some kind of compromise. There are still people who have a regular engagement on a little diary. I understand that. But we made compromises because when you inherited the budget that was broken, which was destroyed and where there was no money, we simply have to define ourselves to build a basis in which we can in healthy ways pay people their wages and pay our pensions to buy new equipment. We've modernised a larger number of armored vehicles. We bought a larger number of patrol cars. Get a new uniform after years, start paying off everything that used to be owed a year at the police station. It was debts for a year. It's all done to you as paid, and they don't pay. You're led to have it, so those people were forced to. Today's a month's payday. Even when we're late, it's a month or two delay. So it pays off regularly. It's not true that the police are on strike. Even no police union is on strike. There's a protest of a small number of police officers. You will see when they protest themselves, when they do not bring all political parties to their meetings and participate in political manifestations, because these are the people who have now decided to deal with politics, and have the right to do so. All right. I think it would be more honest to get involved in a political party, so they come out as a political party, so they see what people think about it, because it's easy to wear a union coat, and then deal with politics. So, simply these people, when they're doing this kind of work, don't think about police demands, think about political ones, but they're not even on strike. They called for a protest and protested on Saturdays and Sundays when working in a manner permitted by law. We don't mind. We don't mind any man protesting on the streets. As you've seen, the police are gone. We're not interrupting anyone. We're not doing anything to slow down, to distract, to move, to ban. Everything, even when not reported, makes traffic difficult for many people in the city. So anyone can attend. The only red lines that are, and that's that there's no violence. Anyone who thinks about violence is better off not trying. No one will be allowed to do that in Serbia, absolutely no one. Violence is a thing that will not be tolerated. Anyone can have, like you said, and thank you for saying, opposition rebellion, that this is opposition rebellion, what we see, absolutely. It's an opposition rebellion. People want to demonstrate. They have absolutely the right to do that, and I understand why. A part of the people simply cannot accept the fact that most in Serbia have a different view of Serbia than they do. They just have to understand that it's democracy too, that other people have the right not to see the situation like they do. It is simply a democracy in Serbia to come out of the absolute majority of citizens, in this case 56% and says, yes, we want Alexander Vukic to be president of Serbia, and that people have to accept when they get 2.29%, as far as you get in the elections, and when they get less than that, they have to accept that it is a national will. You might like it. You may not like it, but it's the people's will at that moment. When other choices come, you will try again or you will have the right to try again, so as you pass, as the people evaluate your work, so will you. Like us, like everyone else, but what's only important, violence can't be. What you said, this government doesn't sell EPS. This is where the EPS buys other countries' capacities. We are entering negotiations to buy electricity from other companies, other countries in our environment, both in Montenegro and Republika Srpska. We're going into projects. We already bought it somewhere. We started negotiations somewhere. We are strengthening state capacities and state property EPS, ESMs, other other facilities. It's just that this country is domestically related to property. We don't sell out property, we don't sell out anything, and where we enter certain levels of privatisation we kept most of the state's ownership and the state has a majority package of actions and manages these companies. We run the country in a serious and responsible way. We didn't cut the tanks and throw it in the oven. We're modernizing our armored vehicles. We're putting on new armor, new engines, new modern systems. We're buying new vests. We're buying new guns. We're buying new weapons. We're modernizing both our army and our police. We're working on people having jobs. We're opening 55 factories in a short time. You should have done it. It's easy to criticize. This is what needs to be done. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14410	They first reported to Businessman Neđo Jovanovic, Vladimir Djukanovic, and then you. I have to delete the list so you can answer it. I have to delete the list. Wait until you hear back from us, so we can get to the Rules of Procedure's office first. Nejko Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14411	Thank you, President. I'm advertising an article. 106, 107, 108, 109 in relation to Article 103. I think you should first, with the respect of the Minister, give me the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure immediately after the injury you didn't do, and the injury was flagrant. The point is that in the most harsh way, the humiliation of this assembly was committed, that the dignity of this parliament was rudely violated, and I think that, Mrs Gojkovic, such a degree of tolerance should not be expressed, even when it comes to the opposition. It is that you know very well that the carrying out of falsehoods and the most harsh false and offensive expressions implies your obligation to impose sanctions on the Rules of Procedure, which is, at the very least, an ordinary reminder to an MP who has done such a thing, and which is certainly not allowed. You also know very well that this Assembly must not be an alibi for anyone, or for a desperate political or electoral result, because seeking an alibi through the carrying out of the truth, through telling lies, through insults, cannot justify what the citizens have recognized. You also know very well that the legitimacy of this Assembly is given to citizens, and they have given it 55% of the trust to the one to whom this trust really needs to be given, and that automatically means mistrust to those who have achieved one or two percent. If that legitimacy is given to the Assembly, then we cannot bring it down here, nor can we bring it down, and especially not in the way that the MP who hurt this assembly has done, making the truths about alleged criminal acts, making the truth about everything he's been saying out of the agenda... (President: Time. I'm done. ... outside the agenda doesn't give us the right, nor that MP to insult the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who give us the legitimacy to do what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14412	If I can share the guilt, dear Ambassador Jovanovic, with Veroljub Arsic half-half, but you know how hard it is for me to make warnings, you are aware that I am not that easy to say, so I abstained this time. The apostle really didn't say anything about the agenda, but may his inexperience be a relief to him, if that's okay with you? If you think we both hurt the Rules of Procedure, we'll vote on it? So it's okay to make it easier? Thank you. Vladimir Djukanovic is next, so Balsa Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14413	Thank you, Your Honor. You know how, the old Latin proverb says – ignorance harms, but regardless of what someone says, even by ignorance, members of 107 and 109 are not allowed to break, especially if it offends the dignity of both parliament and the whole public by inventing and lying to the people through really some nonsense that has just been shown in the worst possible ignorance. I understand that the MP in question must be justified, because the missing investment to those who paid him and he got 2%, but I would really ask you to prevent public deception in the future, especially with the story of being a cheap workforce, because that is how the citizens of Serbia who want to work are insulted. At the time of one of his, when he supported some other options, those people stayed on the street. So you can't insult those who want to work like that. In my own time, the distinguished Mrs. Gojkovic, at Professor Šoškovic's, and you know, I took up the political economy. One colleague on the exam really missed the whole subject and the professor told him – a colleague turns around, at the amphitheatre, there was an amphitheatre road, he says – look, the whole audience is laughing at you. That's right here, we had an MP who absolutely didn't say anything about the subject, but what they wrote to him from some embassy somewhere, I guess he tried to show it to us here, and of course his entire audience is laughing at him, there's only 2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14414	One hundred nine, that's what Nedja Jovanovic has already asked us to vote, not to vote on that member's injury, a general member who speaks of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly. I think every MP should be on his own to see if it hurts or doesn't hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, and it's not my role to be a censor in it, but it's the election, so you get either 56% or 2%, depending on how much you respected the National Assembly's dignity. I really don't know what my fault is. Do you want to vote, MP Djukanovic? (No) Ambassador Bozovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14415	Thank you. President of the Assembly, I'm advertising Article 27. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, given that Minister Stefanovic, talking about election results, left out to say one very important fact, which is that 54, five, six percent, is a 60% percentage that is completely negligible in a country where it is still more important to count, not who votes. I think it's a very ugly demeaning of students and citizens who are protesting, and even the union of police, given that the minister's abuse...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14416	Ambassador, be kind, so don't do what you say was done. Article 27 speaks of me representing the National Assembly, calling meetings, chairing and doing other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure and taking care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. Don't rephrase the minister, you could have asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14417	I'm speaking to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14418	I know you're talking to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14419	I am speaking to you that, under article 27, you have not just played your part in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14420	How come I didn't represent this assembly well, where, in the country and abroad? Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14421	If I may say that it is very bad not to react in a situation where the minister uses a pay phone to defuse protests and the Police Union and to abuse the Assembly's pay phone in this way...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14422	Ambassador, this belongs to the realm of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14423	And the President of the Assembly, too, can have the minister present to the Protestants...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14424	The minister will come out wherever he wants to go, but you allow us to really follow the rules of our conduct prescribed by the Rules of Procedure today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14425	So you're not letting me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14426	Don't abuse, article 27 just doesn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14427	I do not abuse myself, but Minister Stefanovic, and you do not allow me to advertise the Rules of Procedure as a People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14428	The stakes are completely different. He's replicated Ambassador Obradovic. He didn't even mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14429	But you did not follow what Minister Stefanovic said and thus violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. Now I'm advertising it, and you're not letting me, even asking if you've broken it or not, and the Assembly's pleading. So let me tell you what your breach of the Rules of Procedure is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14430	I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14431	Let me say you'd understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14432	Yes, but not about Minister Stefanovic, but about me if he can.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14433	No, I'm telling you, it's not my theme minister, you're my theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14434	I'm the subject? You want me to go out in front of the Protestants?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14435	No, but you allowed Minister Stefanovic, you as Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, to abuse the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14436	He didn't abuse the pay phone, he replicated it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14437	I think it is, as a People's MP, because he spoke in an offensive way about people who protest, even the Police Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14438	Ambassador, why didn't you ask for a replica? He didn't say it for real. I went into the O.R., I didn't listen to Boška Obradovic, only part two. In part two, he didn't say anything about the agenda, but now you're dreaming of something that you'd like to hear, and you haven't heard, because that would be great for you if we could talk about something other than the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14439	He didn't say that the Union is involved in politics and is protesting for political reasons?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14440	I don't buckle on my back. I get what you want, I know what you want, I'm such an experienced politician.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14441	President, I've been gone four months in this assembly. I can see things haven't changed much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14442	Let it go, tra-la-la, but let's hear something about the amendments, about the European Forest Institute, that's the agenda. No replica, no replica. This is the agenda, and if international agreements are nothing to you, then get up, discuss and say – international agreements are nothing to me, I will isolate the state, this agenda is no good, but voted by most MPs in parliament. If you know of any other form of democracy where the minority will manage parliament, then suggest it, write down some work. We'll read, so we'll see what's going to happen, but don't really tell me how to interpret the Rules of Procedure when the Rules of Procedure is clear. Article 27, I don't know where you came from, from a small brain, just because something has to be quoted. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14443	You insult people who are on the streets, and on the other hand you do not allow those who are in minority to say so. Four months you kicked me out of this assembly and nothing changed in the meantime, it's all the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14444	Nothing has changed with you. I've freed you from the work of Parliament when you're not going to change anything. I'll take a break anyway, this doesn't make any sense. I'm taking a five-minute break because it doesn't make sense. Convince your colleagues' arguments to let you speak, you can do it for sure. So, five minutes break. Countless injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you wanted us to work for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? After 40 days - let's do the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't make sense. We have injuries to the Rules of Procedure in this order: Marijan Risticevic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Igor Bečić. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14445	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm advertising an article. 27, 106, 107, 108. You've allowed opposition MPs to take charge of the session and take care of the order. Madam Chairman, regarding dignity, you have allowed a unmistakable dialogue with Balša Bozovic. I need a translator. He's talking about students. Those students are him, too. So Balsa Bozovic attended student protests. He's a bit of a by-law, he's graduated from a combined state-private college, former Bona fides, but, Madam Chairman, it doesn't give him the right to break the Rules of Procedure. This friend of his from the right sector, the Azov Battalion in front of the Assembly, when they broke down the Wall of Salutations, here he is, there's no lie – there's no fraud, there's Balša Bozovic, too bad Mr. Zivkovic isn't here to explain that strange wind that came from Ukraine, they burned the living Russians in Odessa, they're their friends. It's an honor for ordinary students, but there are unusual ones here. Journalists, they stage protests, call for protests, participate in protests, report. Here's Antonel Riha, headed for the protest, bought the gladiators, and she found it. Here are the descendants of well-paid politicians, who are responsible for the destruction of that wall that the wind allegedly knocked down. That's what my friend, a fellow winemaker, said. These are also these students, a little over-indulgent, carburetors as big as Trieste, so they're friends of Balša Bozovica, so we're not fooling ourselves. I've already said it - it's not like destroying the government to me. It's about destroying the state. We are here not to defend power, but to defend the state. Madam Chairman, in the end, the card you sent us with rabbit ears in Patriarch, by Mr Nadimovic, one of the organizers of the protest "Happy Big Duck to All Celebrate", fortunately, did not offend any other religious conflict, but, with that in connection, watch the Madam Chairman in the future, I will consider how to vote, how they perform and how the MPs take over the session of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14446	Article 27 was used in the case of MP Balša Bozovic and the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I tried to get him to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he did something similar to you, by reminding me that I should have prevented him, and I don't have any concrete knowledge that you've brought here right now. So I couldn't take part in it and know if he was telling the truth or not. I don't think I've hurt Article 27, but that's all Parliament can decide. (Marian Risticevic: I want to vote. Alexandera Jerkov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14447	I'm just asking you, first of all, for the president to let me know if I have two minutes, according to Article 103. A Rules of Procedure, or two minutes and 50 seconds as a previous speaker, to say whatever comes to mind, as you let him. Madam President, you have violated article 100. The Rules of Procedure, even if you had called upon him and, as the Rules of Procedure tell you, you had come down among the benches and leniented with the MPs, you would still not be allowed to tell the MP to say something like "The Kraut of Tra-la-la", because our Rules of Procedure does not allow it. You did it a little while ago. You, from the seat of the President of the Assembly, told a national MP that he was saying something like "The Kraut tra-la-la". I don't know if it's the way you're used to communicating with your colleagues, whether it's the way you communicate with the party, whether you think it's acceptable to communicate with the National Assembly, but in any case, everything you think, I ask you to keep to yourself, and to limit yourself here in the manner that this Rules of Procedure prescribes. He obliges us to address one another with respect and not to give, especially from the seat of the President of the Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, such qualifications as what the MPs say, just because you, for whatever reason, do not like what they have said. Secondly, a member of 103 leaves you with no opportunity to interrupt the speaker and break up with him. It is yours to listen to his explanation which makes you feel that you have violated any provision of the Rules of Procedure, to give an explanation and to ask whether this person is satisfied with the explanation you gave or not. Instead, you can't listen for one minute, you break up, you insult, you break up with the MPs, you don't have the right to do anything, so that you can speak afterwards and claim that you generously allowed the opposition to do anything. You don't have to let anyone, you should stick to the Rules of Procedure. In that direction, I'll end up, because I see that you want to transfer it to me after probably how you let me speak longer, but I'll speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which you don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14448	Well, now you know what I'm gonna say. Okay, whatever. I don't know what you mean. I'll listen to you next time. (Alexandra Jerkov: I have said that you are obliged to give an explanation according to the Rules of Procedure and to ask the MP of the people whether he is satisfied with the explanation. Well, that's right, you're right in part. I think I should use Section 8, then, to shut up, not to answer anything, even though I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to respond to an officer's injury. (Alexandra Jerkov: You are obliged to... All right, I'm obliged to listen and throw. It's all right. So, according to Article 103 paragraph 8, I can take two minutes, keep quiet, and just as you recommended, I strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure and take away two minutes every time someone replicates and says, "infringement of the Rules of Procedure." Thanks for the advice, I think I'll use it. The other thing you said, yeah, maybe I jumped out of my explanation a little bit. I'm glad you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure. In 100 and 103, you showed your sensitivity to insults, so you protected your fellow MPs from your parliamentary group. Please, when someone says insults to another MP to react equally, so that I can understand you in the right way, as you wish when it comes to insults only to MPs who are nice to you, and I ask you that when an MP, who is not from two or three days ago, says May to willows, or - don't mention me in the Assembly, even though it is said in the Assembly and in the session, but well... Alexander Jerkov's national emissary throws him out of town. Well, I'm not sure right now, but well, if you say so in the congregation, then we'll go to the congregation. Because I can show up to you, or I'm gonna catch up with you, and then you're gonna react just as much. But "May to willow" is very interesting, and I think all MPs should respond to that. There, I apologize to Balsa Bozovic for saying – Krab tra-la-la, but I also expect an apology from all MPs who are so sensitive to the insults of the MPs who say – Krab tra-la-la, which says 99% of Serbian citizens when they want to say that someone repeats something over and over again, but "May to willows" is already a little sensitive. So, I don't think I've hurt a member of 100th and a member of 103, but at the vote, we'll determine that. (Alexandra Jerkov: You didn't ask me if I wanted to make a statement.) Well, I'm sure you do. (Alexandra Jerkov: You know what I want? I can't hear you well, I only hear when the MPs report. You don't want to? (Alexandra Jerkov: I wish, and member 100 and Article 103) All right, and a member of 100 and a member of 103. It's all right. The word is Igor Becic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14449	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, came forward after Mr Obradovic was presented. I think he's a rude violation. In 106 and 112, because we've had the opportunity for six months to go out with a presidential candidate to convince us from session to session that he's a serious presidential candidate, that he deserves the trust of the citizens, and then when he gets 2% here, then he comes out at today's session with harsh lies, deception of the public, citizens and us MPs. All of this by explaining that those 2% are higher than the 56% received by the president of SNS, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Also, let's not talk about the nonsense that has been said here about security services, about Protestants and everything he said in his presentation. Now, I don't know what his policy is? He advocates Russia, and then he does not admit that Russian President Mr Putin congratulated the SNS president on winning the election. Also, some other MPs advocate other European values, and also do not recognise that the German Chancellor, Chinese president and many European officials have congratulated on Mr Vukic's magnificent victory. Now they want to convince us that what politicians are trying to manipulate with students, that they are lying to us here about some of them irregularities in the elections and all that to ignore what is true today in Serbia, that the candidate SNS has got 56%, and they can be proud of 1% or 2% of citizens' support in the elections. I believe that the Rules of Procedure violated the chairman, Mr. Arsic, so I don't think it should be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14450	Thank you, because I wanted to answer as Balshi Bozovic. You replicated him, and I had to listen to Jerkov's letter, so I could let you say it till the end. That's what it looks like when you won't let me break up. Thank you. Let's stop with the damages of the Rules of Procedure now, so I don't have to set a break and get back to work? Vladimir Orlic, replica to whom? (Vladimir Orlic: Radovic.) ) The word has Vladimir Orlic, a replica of Boska Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14451	Thank you very much, Madam President. Yes, I understand that it is not easy to monitor the course of the debate when all those who insist on getting attention here both to the public and colleagues in the National Assembly and to attract cameras in every way possible, do what they do. It's really hard to monitor the session and keep the debate going. I have waited very patiently, and it is a clear basis, the basis is the mention of the president of the SNS. Why was he mentioned by the one who caused the replica, and since it is difficult to hold the thread, I am referring to the apostle Pernar, or “The Dvornar, ” as it was? Why he mentioned it, it's more than clear. This man is completely fascinated with Alexander Wolfich, for several reasons. First, because the result of more than 55% of the votes that Alexander Vukic received is in itself worth the attention. That's all anyone can say - I'm taking off my hat. The result of over two million votes of Serbia's citizens is certainly a result of valuable attention and anyone can only say that – I take off my hat. But when these issues are dealt with and Alexander Vukic deals with those who have phenomenal 2% of the results, they can only remain fascinated, that day and night do not think of anything else until Alexander Vukic, his result and his "phenomenal success" of 2%. But that 2% isn't the end of the ballad, ladies and gentlemen. When you look at the places where the elections are repeated, the one who caused the replica, Pernar-Dovernar, as it was, gets one vote in Topoli, not 1%, but one whole vote, gets one vote in Leskovac, gets one vote in Triestenik, and in Novi Sad, whoop, all-faith, three votes. And this someone, since he was obviously most interested in the term “student and youthful, ” since he has dealt with these two or three times, apparently has a desire to identify himself with these terms. Although in the fifth decade, one would not say that it is in the context of student and youth at all, I will show good will and say – here, we admit, it is. It is in the context of both this student and that youth, because exactly what he does and what he talks about rejuvenates himself, makes him look just like a child. Thank you very much. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14452	Jasmina Nikolic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14453	Thank you. I will refer to all the laws on the validation of conventions, protocols and agreements, in the order set out in the united debate. I am starting with the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the European Forest Institute. The convention was formed in 2003, doubtless it is a useful convention for the academic community above all, as colleagues from the University of Belgrade Forest College, the Institute of Forestry in Belgrade and the Institute for Forestry and Environment from Novi Sad participate in the institute. What I would like to ask, two short things about this Convention of Proponents, is perhaps a brief clarification on the context of the delay, so, since 13 years have passed from the beginning of the Convention to the verification of this Agreement. The second thing is the fact that it is said in the light of the law that there are no financial obligations for the state, which is clearly true, with the institutes being budgetary users and universities as well. I'm sure they're paying some membership fees. As far as I can see, it's not about the big funds, maybe something between 220 and 750 euros, with it not being bad to find out in an explanation that it could be fully understood what kind of financial commitment it is. A brief question – will anyone also cover the costs, if any, to predict the participation of state representatives in the work of this Convention? As far as the second law is concerned, it is the Law confirming the protocol on the elimination of illegal trade in tobacco products, the government proposed it on 25 January 2017. I suppose you said that until now, the protocol has been signed by 65 countries, and now I'm reading data from the World Health Organization's website, 26 has ratified, so it's in place that we don't need funds in the budget to implement this agreement. As I understand it, in 2017, only one country has ratified an agreement so far, I don't know if we'll be their second or third in a row, if there's anything else going on. The question is – do you expect to apply in 2018? We don't know. All right, thanks. The Act of Confirmation of the Doha Amendment to Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. So here it's clear what this is all about, this is our responsibility. One thing I didn't understand, it's possible that I misunderstood, that Serbia had no obligation to reduce gas emissions, and in fact, as far as I understand it, there's no quantified part, not exactly how much is said. What confused me and asked you for clarification is, now I don't know if it's a failure or if it's some particular reason, why it wasn't put into discussion in the Paris Convention, that is, this agreement, since the topic is obviously the one, especially because Serbia has already fulfilled certain obligations, as far as I can see, that it delivers a total of about 9% and is the first in the region. The fourth is the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Participation in the Central European University Exchange Programme ‘CEEPUS III’. I have to say, since I come from higher education, this is a great thing. "CEEPUS III" is usually a programme that we have implemented in Serbia for years for mutual satisfaction both students and teachers, both our countries and other countries. It confuses one thing, which is that we are seven years behind in ratification of the agreement, although we are calling for implementation by the Vienna Convention. Then my question is actually Minister, I don't know why we're late, so if you don't mind explaining why we're late, it would be good. It is also noted that since for the parties depositing their instruments of approval after the entry into force of the agreement, which was there sometime in 2011, a practical agreement will take effect on the first day of the following month, in our case, therefore, has not yet come into force. That's what's important to me to point out, even though it's being implemented under the Vienna Convention. What is very good news, if I understand it well, and I ask the minister to confirm or deny it, is that Serbia is expected to chair the Joint Committee of Ministers in the period from 2017 to 2019, it is somehow dragged through the explanation, so it would not be bad to confirm that if so. In the light of the rules, there is nothing to be said about the assessment of the financial resources necessary for application in 2017. I see from what you said we received 149 scholarships, those 149 monthly CEEPUS units that amount to something like 18,000 for students and 35,000 for teachers. We could practically do it then and how much total funding for Serbia because I didn't find it in the budget, it's possible it's my fault. Fifthly, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other members of the Education Reform Initiative in South-Eastern Europe on the South-Eastern Europe Secretariat of the Education Reform Initiative. The agreement provides for Belgrade to be the new seat of the Secretariat. It used to be in Croatia, if I'm not mistaken, and then it was transferred to the COP, to the Centre for Educational Policies, where and now it's temporary. The agreement also includes some of Serbia's obligations, which you have already talked about, which is to provide the Secretariat with the premises, to provide communication links and logistics assistance, without compensation, as well as an annual financial contribution that was 9,000 euros for now by 2013 and a one-time participation in the operational costs of 20,000 euros. You said it was foreseen in the budget. All right. The question remains for me – what will happen to the funds planned for 2016 in the amount of 3,567,000 dinars, since it is said that no funds for 2017 are so explicitly planned? One more question. It comes into force after four Member States ratify an international agreement. I don't know how many have ratified them so far, so if you can tell us. Then when is the entry into force expected? I have to express my regrets, I don't know how the contest went, if we had our candidate in the contest to elect the director of the Secretariat, since he was elected in May 2016 in a competition scheduled in November 2015 and that, if I understand correctly, is a colleague from Croatia who started this in Croatia. If you can tell – did we have as our candidate for director and how was the election contest? Sixth, a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation in the fight against organised crime. This has already been discussed on the board and we adopted it. I have two questions, although you have partially answered why it is late to ratify the Agreement because it was signed in 2011, and I hear that in 2015 Poland only ratified it, okay. The next question is about the budget. It is said that over 400,000 dinars have been allocated in the 2016 budget and are not needed for 2017. I guess there's been a change in the situation now, so maybe if you can make some clarification about the funding planned for 2017. Finally, I don't know how these countries negotiate. So here the competent authority is only the Ministry of the Interior, while it is comparatively in the Agreement on Co-operation with Germany and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. If you could just say it briefly, since it's similar agreements and it's similar to the subject. Seven, a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the area of security. I had some questions about the previous regulation on which this agreement is based, however, I have heard from you that it is a completely new agreement that defines in a new way the two countries' relationship with the prevention of criminal acts of organised and serious crime. The same question remains for the budget as for the previous agreement. It is 141,000 dinars planned for 2016, whether or not they will be spent in 2017. The law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation does not have any comment, it is clear, and this is very well explained. A bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on co-operation in the fields of culture, education, science, youth and sports was submitted by the government at the end of January 2017. I am particularly pleased with my colleagues from the Department of Bohemics of the Faculty of Philology, which will obviously be ratified because it implies exchange of lecturers, teachers and experts in Czech, or Serbian language and literature. I have a few questions about this agreement. It was signed in 2009 by Serbia-Montenegro and the Czech side did not sign it then. I don't know what argument she gave, it's said here that this is an almost identical agreement, this quote whose confirmation is proposed, so only if it can be explained, why didn't the Czech side then sign this and what's the difference between the agreement then and the current one? Also, it is said that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 has planned the funds, I would ask the minister to just say how much funds they are if he can. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on the navigation of the Tis River, this is one of the better-founded draft laws. Bilateral relations are too prominent, since it involves sailing ships with flags from other countries, which are winding the flags of other countries, and then perhaps it was good to stress that regional co-operation was involved. The financial issue suggests that the agreement does not create financial obligations. The question remains open to me how will the work and travel of a ten-member mixed commission be financed? So, the agreement mentions a ten-member mixed committee, where five members, members of the Hungarian side, five members of the Serbian side, and they are scheduled to oversee the implementation of the Agreement and to meet regularly, I forgot what rhythm, mostly some expense here must exist and it would be good to find the arguments of this law. It's been stolen and it's some kind of literal mistake, but it's less important now, usually I don't see it, so now I've seen it, I'm jumping. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Qatar on mutual incentive and protection of investments submitted by the Government on 30 December 2016. Today, there are no government representatives, it said in that document that Minister Rasim Ljajic would be. What I still miss here is the text of the Agreement in English, usually come with a text in a foreign language, but okay. Therefore, the interpretation of the rules does not contain sufficient analysis of the current situation and the problem it intends to address, and according to the Rules of Procedure it should be there. Namely, the regulation solves the problem, I quote – there is no legal basis and no framework in which to provide quotes – additional investor attraction. So, from here, it follows that there is already a legal basis and a framework for the initial attraction of investors, which would then be the Investment Law in both countries. Therefore, it is not said which base exists for initial investment in the State of Qatar. I would like to ask the Proposer to explain or any of the government's representatives present, what is the current situation? So what legal framework provides for the initial attraction of investors in both countries? Then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether the problem of further attracting investors identified here is being addressed by amendments to existing rules and existing rules which are implicated by this argument. If he did, why was he rejected, if he didn't? Why are regulations not changed to encourage all businesses and protect their investments, so why just certain? It's missing in this explanation so we can understand the whole of the proposal. Which precisely provides for additional investor attraction both in Serbia and in Qatar, as someone has already noticed about the mutual incentive of investments. What disturbs this need in both Serbia and the country of Qatar? I would also like to ask the Proposer to explain the context of mutual incentive for investment. Does Serbia invest in the state of Qatar? Does the State of Qatar invest in Serbia? Why is the treatment of the most privileged nation here highlighted by other additional provisions of privilege actually undefined foreign investors. I suppose it could have been explained that the potential name of investors whose investments are expected and that someone said by the promoter is that there is a huge $170 billion investment fund. Therefore, why the treatment of the most privileged nation and other additional provisions favour unnamed, undefined foreign investors from the country of Qatar, and not some other or any other country, and why they are given the same, but it is actually more favourable than domestic businesses, because they have certain safeguards. It's not explained, and I would expect it to be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because it says what needs to be explained. So, are our businessmen theoretically better suited to investing in the country of Qatar than in the state of Serbia? Does this mean that if a domestic business operator who does not have this responsibility in Serbia opens a firm in Qatar, invests in it and then that company reinvests back in Serbia, that it can achieve these benefits, that is to protect its investment. Has the proposal also considered the risk of creating a basis for illegally getting out of the country and returning to the country as a protected investment. Finally, whose initiative is included in the agreement, I understand that it is a general provision, but we would also do well to know the fees of loss without delay which the investor suffers, which are the result of events or circumstances which could not have been predicted, and then there is war, armed conflict, emergency, rebellion, uprising or unrest. I understand it comes from bond law, but I'd like to know whose initiative. We in this regulation express territories as noted by counterpart Sanda, therefore, we in this regulation the expression of territory in the case of Serbia is not defined so that it covers airspace and internal water. In Article 1 The regulation stating the terms to be defined, or explained, does not contain an expression. Please, if anyone can explain this because it seems rather complicated. Therefore, why position 6 has at all been found, or point 6) at all, in Article 1 because it says the following – any change in the forms in which the funds have been invested or reinvested will not affect their character as investments provided that such a change is not contrary to the provisions of this Agreement and the laws of the parties. He comes from the Investment Act where foreign investment is strictly spoken of and changes legal form. The proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Romania on Social Security was submitted by the government on 30 December 2016. So, it is an agreement that formally brings a good newspaper in the area of social security to Serbian and Romanian citizens, including pensions and disability insurance, the collection of periods of insurance completed in both countries in order to exercise the right to give and so on. The interpretation of the agreement, however, is not explicit enough regarding the problem that the regulation needs to address because it does not contain an analysis of the current situation and can only be indirectly concluded that the existing 1976 regulation actually covered health insurance and emergency medical cases. It would be good for these things to be more explicit in reasons. I would ask the promoter to put this agreement in the possible context of the IPA two internal Romanias – Serbia's programme, since one of the programme's objectives is social security. The financial assessment of the funds needed to implement the rules has not been made, though it is said to be provided from the budget within the limit set by the finance ministry. It wouldn't be bad to know what the means are. And if it can't be estimated, why can't it be estimated? I also ask the promoter to point out whether it exists, and I am now setting it up again, and I am not sure that this is the case because the proposings have an obligation to emphasise whether there is an obligation to comply with European legislation. It seems that this is the EU's 883/04 harmonisation process where there is an obligation to bring it into line in the area of social security. The agreement was signed in October 2016, you announced that there will be new agreements of a similar nature with other countries. I know that after the signing of this agreement, the Prime Minister has been visiting Romania, that some additional agreements have been signed there and one protocol that has direct ties to the protocols that we are dealing with here, in terms of co-operation at the border, of those patrols, such as Bulgaria. Do you know whether this agreement is expected to be signed and its possible verification? And in this agreement, under point 11, there's this disproportionate definition, I assume that everyone gives their definition of territory, but it's disproportionate to the definition of territory in this agreement with the State of Qatar, because there's air spaces, waterways, and here we don't. It's about the agreements themselves. Just one more remark regarding the fact that some other agreements that were already in the process, such as the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Paris Agreement, which I have already mentioned also the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing a Regional Office for Youth Cooperation, were submitted on 30 November as well as the CEEPUS III. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14454	Minister to respond. Minister Nedimovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14455	Thank you. I apologize to all the MPs for using this time to talk about some of the things that were made an hour ago before these discussions that did not refer to the draft laws, but don't be mad at me for going through this debate that was, through discussion with you, which I'm going to look back at some of the things that were just said. The first thing, as far as confirming the Convention on the European Forest Institute is concerned, will not be a commitment from the budget or from the Institute. From their own resources they will finance it, there is no additional financial cost for our participants, because the budget of the European Forest Institute is exclusively financed by the membership of associated members and donations. There's no cost that can come from the other side. Why now, the question is, I can ask you that too. I can only express my gratitude to my colleague, who was the Minister before me, for re-launching this topic together with the Director of the European Forest Institute and the Director of the Forest Administration. That was 2015. Why wasn't someone working on the subject? I guess the woods weren't important to him. It's my only answer and it's terrible, but it's true. It is up to us to adopt this and take all modern solutions in the management of forests that exist today in the world, which are modern, to try to pass on, implement with us. As for this second, the Doha amendment and even stories about the Kyoto Protocol, the Paris Convention was adopted by the Serbian government on December 1st. We're heading for the Assembly. I only hope it's the chronology, because first it's the Time Doha Amendment. The idea was likely to be adopted at the next session, so we clearly expressed our political will to adopt it, for one simple reason we want to be with all modern countries of the world fighting for a healthier environment. What I can't understand, not from your presentation, but from the presentation of a previous author of authority, is the story of ignoring the environment and some negative context of talking about Kyoto protocol. I apologize, but I am speaking to you, Mr. Bosko, for one simple reason because I believe that the environment is a thing that is universal value, universal law, for one simple reason, because if it is a democratic right for everyone to talk about everything, the democratic right is also that the proposals of these laws, that most of them propose them. Also, they are on the agenda today. You can't immediately honor us so that we don't take care of other things. And these are important things. The environment is a very important thing. She may not have been that much of an option in the first place, but she's very important and we want to impose her as an important topic. On the other hand, there was a question about quantifying our obligations under the Doha amendments. We are working to reduce the emissions of harmful gases through the infrastructure sector through the energy sector, but we do not have a quantified obligation as the 35 most developed countries that have an obligation to solve it at a certain percentage. I think it's very important through these agreements, which the whole world admits, maybe some think it's not an important topic, that we try to express our willingness to move forward with the modern world in terms of preserving the environment. Our obligations will be quantified after 2020 and by accepting the Paris Convention. That's what's good. But we're doing it right now. We are entitled to these Doha amendments that we do not have an obligation in 2013 until 2020. One more thing was brought out about an hour ago. Look out, Kyoto protocol stopped in 2013. So, absolutely incorrect things that have been said to concern Kyoto protocol now. He stopped valid in 2013. The Doha amendments to Kyoto protocol are now in force. Here's the story of a legally regulated environmental protection system against emissions of harmful gases. I think these things are very important for the citizens of Serbia, too, because if you look at the list of priorities citizens want to talk about, which they advocate, the environment is very high. We are now trying to open this chapter in both this and next year and through the EU accession process, so that we can have as much funding as possible to finance our environmental needs. One more thing to say why these Doha are important are amendments. With this, we have the right to apply to the Green Climate Fund. We have the right to other bilateral agreements, or sources of funding that exist to apply. I think it's just useful and we don't see anything problematic in that thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14456	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14457	I'll just try to give you a concise answer. So it's on our side, the Ministry of Finance and Health, because it's actually about an interstate agreement that covers, in the broadest form, the fight against cross-border crime, the drug-trafficking and they're through the Ministry of Finance and Customs, and of course through the Ministry of Health that we have joint teams dealing with drug destruction, the way in which we store and provide the bulkheads and everything that's going on in these areas. That's why they're involved. As for funding, we didn't know exactly what years would take effect, because it didn't depend on the ministry. We didn't predict because the funds are otherwise, if necessary, they will be provided from the current appraisals of the MUP and will be truly minimal. That's why we didn't predict any particular number. You have seen that in 2016 it was relatively modest means, so that we can solve these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14458	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14459	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today's session in a post-election period when we need to realize that over 2,012,788 citizens voted for SNS candidate and coalition partners and, convincingly, 55% won the previous presidential elections. What's interesting is, based on an analysis of 8,396 polling stations, we can see that all the other candidates totaled 43.26% of the vote. This shows that the candidate who received the largest number of votes combined has more than all the other candidates. Why are we saying this? Because today's session has 11 agenda points on ratification of agreements from different areas, which are exactly the political platform that Aleksandar Vucic has given Serbian citizens to plead and say what they think about it. Citizens have unequivocally supported the continuation of Serbia's reform course, but also the continuation of reforms in different areas, so that the three agreements that are in the area of security, police activities and the fight against organised crime are also an integral part of the agreement between Serbia and Chapters 23 and 24 on European integration. What should be said is that there is no democratically regulated society unless we have regulated security sectors, unless we have co-operation with the police services of other countries in the environment, especially with those with whom we are bordering, but we should also say that agreements do not make big states with countries where there is no stability, there is no order, work and discipline, and there are no simple rules that are respected. In any case, Serbia owns those rules, owns the Constitution, owns laws that it respects, and that is why today we have one of the agreements signed in Berlin, which is an agreement relating to security with the Republic of Germany that precisely defines what the common Republic of Germany and Serbia need to do when it comes to these areas. When it comes to police activity and the fight against organised crime, it is evident in the work of one reform of the system in which we can see, when it comes to Bulgaria, that it is of great importance that it is precisely with those countries we are bordering with that sector that we have to have stronger co-operation in that sector and this kind of contract is a form of it. Citizens have shown in the past elections that they believe in institutions precisely because they have supported the candidate who is Prime Minister, but have shown unequivocally that they support peace and stability. What is a question today, perhaps, for the interior minister, which is that we have the opportunity to see that democratic rights have been achieved and those who have five or ten times the percentage of votes received in the previous elections, but that they simply have the right to rally, to resent such results. The basic question arises – who is the organizer of such protests? Whenever you are scheduled to stage a protest or rally, it is normal to sign up for Serbia's MUP and that someone who registers as a legal person or a natural person should be legitimate. So it's true that he has his own name or organization to show his registration. We don't exactly have a defined registration here, or the person who organizes it. I think it's one cover-up behind young people who are always rebellious by nature, and that's what we need to work on as a society. We need to teach young people that there is a system and political life in Serbia based on which they can respond adequately and organise certain gatherings, but that there is a law and procedure for this, and that they should report such a gathering, and precisely because neighbours living in that part of the city could function adequately. The second part of the contract we have today is the one relating to education. We think that this proposal for an agreement relating to university co-operation, in particular, gives us the opportunity to strengthen this intensity of co-operation and professors and students, as well as those who want to be scholarships when it comes to doctoral and post-doctoral studies. This figure we have heard from Mr. Minister really shows the great desire of our scientific workers to increase this number of scholarships in the future, as well as co-operation. After all, it turns out that Serbia is still a place for young and smart people, because it is a much greater number of scholarships that simply exist here than we are obliged to give to others. What is otherwise an analysis of all EU countries' research is that in Serbia there are young people who are fast learning and because they say that the great interest of developed EU countries is for our staff is precisely because our people, even with unfinished colleges, and especially with colleges completed, are very quickly adapted to the systems of education of highly developed countries. This way that university co-operation programmes are defined, as well as an agreement relating to membership for the initiative of Southeast European member states that gives a model here that the secretariat of such an organisation is in Belgrade and that our participation in this organisation is of great importance, in fact it shows itself the position of the Ministry of Education which simply wants the science sector to enlighten in a certain way to raise it to a higher level. The agreement regarding the Czech Republic is not only from the field of education, but obviously culture, and sports, and youth, and that is what you cannot unequivocally separate. That is why it must be one of the agreements to be supported. As for the area of environmental protection and forestry, we have had opportunities from the minister to hear that by ratifying this Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, Serbia will have more opportunities to withdraw certain funds from climate change funds. When we talk about it, in fact, in the final instance, we always think about what hit us somewhere, and these are the possibilities of spilling rivers, or defending against floods and as part of prevention when it comes to climate change that Serbia never happens again in 2014. An agreement on the free navigation of Tis should be said that by ratifying this agreement with Hungary, which was otherwise signed at a joint session in Nis last year, two governments, between Hungary and Serbia, ceases to be valid one protocol that has been in force since 1955. So, so far, no one's dealt in detail with this water traffic and free navigation of Tis. Obviously, this ministry, under this government, has made a proposal for an agreement with the Hungarian side in a very serious way, and has sent such a proposal for ratification, which is of paramount importance, not only for water traffic, but for goods and services in general. Finally, we have an agreement relating to joint investments, i.e. incentives with Katara, which apparently caused the greatest interest here in parliament by some parties from the former regime, because we don't even know what parties they are anymore, because in the past elections we had three extra-party candidates who supported some parties who didn't have their own candidates, and that's strange because some parties have just had economic incentives from some companies in Qatar and I'm just surprised that today we're talking in such a way, because the goal is precisely to protect certain investments, including investments through a certain NGO sector is justified, given that we're paying taxes and that we have 20% income when it comes to VAT. So I think that all those who opposed the most should now support one of these agreements. On the other hand, we have a part that you have certainly forgotten, which is – our companies operate on the territory of Qatar and have contracts, such as the Energy Project, and we need to protect, in the end, our companies that operate there, so I don't see any controversial member in the part when it comes to the Agreement with Qatar. Finally, we have an agreement concerning social protection, that is, the social policy of the Republic of Serbia with Romania. It should be said that this agreement is of paramount importance. I don't even know if Serbian citizens have the knowledge that 22.5 thousand Serbian citizens live in Romania and that this is what we are essentially helping them, but, of course, to citizens in Serbia who are of Romanian origin. As of today, since we have ratified such an agreement, the issue of their pensions will no longer be a problem, especially when it comes to payment in Romania and Serbia. Secondly, they won't have a problem with health care when it comes to their health books. What is very important is that in a completely transparent way we have co-operation with Romania in this area. The work of the ministry in this area should be praised because more than 20 countries have signed such an agreement, and on the other hand, six has been initiated, three are under way, when it comes to general social security and health agreements. When we talk in general about contracts relating to the Republic of Serbia, we forgot one part, in terms of confirming the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products. He's here in a group of laws regarding environmental protection and health protection. Greater control and elimination of all activities that enter the criminal domain, when it comes to trade in tobacco products, practically leads us to move towards a growing number of users in Serbia, when it comes to cigarettes, and thus to simply providing for our country not only cleaner air, but also a higher degree of Serbia's health. Therefore, we need to support this type of protocol, because this shows greater co-operation with countries in the region, when it comes to this topic, but we show that we are taking practically EU standards from this topic, and that we are slowly, but surely, preparing for all those chapters that are touching this topic and that at some point, when we face the opening of such chapters we will be able to deal with in a certain and responsible way. This is, for example, a question of Chapter 27, because this proposal for a Protocol is within the group confirming the Convention on the European Forest Institute and part relating to the Doha Amendment for Kyoto Protocol and as regards the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is no accident that such a agenda is done, and it should be said that the idea in general of Serbia, that when we talk about this protocol, there should be licences. This means that companies dealing with this kind of thing should fall under the licensing process, but also the part relating to the global system of operation, when it comes to trade in tobacco products, we become an integral part of such a system. In the end, I would just repeat, when we are talking at all about the completed elections in the Republic of Serbia, that candidate Aleksandar Vukic showed that by ending these elections at 8,396 polling stations, there was no candidate who could in some way compromise him and for many reasons. First of all, because the political platform offered by Aleksandar Vukic simply did not have any opposition politically, in terms of a programme. As a result, the other 10 candidates received between five and 10 times less votes, and thus proved to be the only responsible policy, foreign and domestic policy of Serbia, as prime minister of the Republic of Serbia's government in Serbia, to gain always the highest confidence. This should be a guideline for every political party, and even one that has not gone to the polls. An individual who wants to make political parties here now through certain parliamentary groups in the future, that only with the construction of institutions and an adequate political programme can you go to the citizens of Serbia and get a certain vote. At any other moment, in any other case, the citizens will punish you very much by sending you into political oblivion. Therefore, in the day to vote, I also call on the parties from the former regime to ratify these agreements, simply, and which should be voted, five years ago, which were on the agenda, so they did not, practically, find themselves at this session, have a moral obligation to raise, press the key and vote for such proposals as are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-19-0.u14460	Thank you. Dear MPs, I didn't extend my work after 1800 hours, so we'll take a break here and continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 97 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall who have reported that they are in the hall, plus 30 who have not applied, and therefore there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. (Vojislav Seselj: These 30 don't count. I count all of you that I see physically, but 84 is enough, so 86. (Vojislav Seselj: You are not a psychic Zorka. No, I'm Cleopatra. (Vojislav Seselj: Cleopatra was with me in prison. So 89 reported here. I know, so I defended it. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
