ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic system, there are 127 MPs present in the hall. Do any of the presidents... (Alexandra Jerkov: Rules of Procedure. Just a moment to read. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) I've heard everything. If a sentence can be finished, then it would be really nice, but I'll do it again. Whether one of the representatives, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Radoslav Milojic: I want to, but the system is not working. Then we'll give it to someone who's working the system. And the system doesn't work because there are five MPs in the system, but it can't be identified on what basis. Then I'll wipe you out. (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) It's an elemental courtesy to wait for someone to finish the sentence, especially someone who's trying to run the session. Then I will erase, and I will give my word to those who have raised the Rules of Procedure, for there is a clear intention about it. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26219	I think so, and I answered because I think you've hurt Article 86. Rules of Procedure, Item 2, which speaks of holding sessions. Article 86(1) states that the session is scheduled at least seven days before the date set for the start of the session, and then, paragraph 2 says that the Assembly may be convened within a short period of time as set out in Article 1, where the President of the National Assembly is obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session. You opened this session without explaining why you called her 24 hours and one minute before the time set for the beginning of the session. You also injured a member of 87 who speaks when sessions and article 88 are held, but let's talk about this article 86. The only reason why you did what you did is to make it impossible for MPs to exercise their constitutional right to propose laws and other initiatives to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because the Rules of Procedure say these proposals can be delivered no later than 24 hours before the time set for the start of the session. This is how you wanted to prevent over 150 proposals to supplement the agenda of different laws and other initiatives that the MPs, all of the opposition and only the opposition, from proposing to the National Assembly today to meet here before the MPs and to exercise our right to talk about them. You did it on purpose and tendantly to make it impossible for us to exercise our rights. Unfortunately, this isn't the first time, and I'm afraid it's not even the last one.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26220	Thank you. That's two minutes. For the sake of the public, I will answer, since you are most often not interested in the reply of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as you are now showing by having a chat with your colleagues. It's not a problem. The 86th term defines when and how sessions are called. It shows that the President of Parliament has done nothing to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Article 87 speaks as a rule when held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. Convince me it's not Thursday and I'll say I hurt the Rules of Procedure. In all other things, I ask you not to kill the messenger, but to wait for the session to come when we talk at all, or to establish the agenda. Now we've just determined the quorum, if I'm not mistaken, MP, and the agenda is determined something later. So, I called this session solely because the Prime Minister and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic asked me to do so, because not by setting the agenda and not by considering these points of the agenda would result in our country. And why didn't there be an earlier debate on the ratification of these agreements, you'll have a chance to talk to the competent minister who'll come here when we're done asking questions. Therefore, you will ask the Secretary-General why the agreements that have been here since August of the month have not been discussed here. I can't answer that question for you. I'd love to answer that, but it's not hurt at all. And if I had the intention, so now I'm some sort of conspiracy of the rules, so someone couldn't submit proposals to supplement the agenda, I really don't want to discuss it. If you think that's true, I accept my guilt. I don't do anything else, but I keep plotting against you personally and against other MPs. I'm such a person, you've just found out who you're going to talk to, but my God. So, Art. 86th and Art. In 87, they weren't broken. I assume you want us to vote that they've been broken, and that will be done. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26221	Mrs. Gojkovic, you have violated Article 27, multiple members. I will quote them, says: “The president of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, convenes sessions, presides over them, and does other work according to the law and the Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. “ Then he says: “The president of the National Assembly can postpone the hour, that is, the day of the meeting of the National Assembly, on which he is timely informing the MPs, by having to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session. “ Over 130 MPs were present in the O.R., ask for a copy of the electronic system, and you will see that my card has been there all along. You scheduled the session for today at 10:00 p.m. You entered the O.R. at 10 o'clock and 37 minutes. You did not delay the session, nor did it occur to you, when you finally entered to inform the Messengers of your duty to inform them, which are the reasons for the session being delayed. Mrs. Gojkovic, you are the first among the equals here and we are not here for you, but for us. I think it's the natural state of things. Not everyone here can be older than the MPs. We are equal to each other, and when it comes to the relationship between the government and the MPs, then the Assembly is older, they are state officials. The fact that someone asked you to sit for nine hours and 59 minutes, means 24 hours and one minute before the session, schedule a session, is not an acceptable explanation. You had to guard the dignity of the National Assembly and reject such a request by the Minister, to say – no, I want as the President of the National Assembly that MPs have enough time to prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26222	Thanks, time. I've just done everything per article 27. Everything that's written in article 27, I've fulfilled. This rest says broken... (Inemnja Sarovic: Article 86) Please, 86 was, 87 was, can't be repeated, and you know it very well. You said some more, but you didn't specify which, since I don't have the power to predict what you meant, I can't even answer you. If we hadn't just found the quorum, I might have succeeded in telling you about the delay of the beginning of the session, and about everything else. You did not allow it, because the breach of the Rules of Procedure is the most important thing in the world to discuss at this point. It might be less damage to the Rules of Procedure if you'd let me say anything after determining the quorum, anything, one word, a comma, but you won't allow it. It's not a problem. As for your presence at the session, you weren't in the system, I can't communicate with people who don't determine the quorum, you inserted a card before the quorum was established, and then you pulled that card out. Marco Djurisic throws. Ambassador Đurisic, you weren't in the system. Of course we'll vote, we'll absolutely vote on whatever it takes. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26223	Thank you, President. Items 2 and 3 of Articles 88 that speak of you having nothing to explain to us why the session is late, but if you realize that at a specified time, which was 10.00 hours, there are not enough MPs in the room, you should postpone the session by an hour, and if there are not enough MPs to schedule it for the next day or another. Mrs. Gojkovic, you scheduled this session for today for 10.00 hours. We were in the O.R. at 10:00, you showed up at 10:00 and 39 minutes, and you can't explain later why you didn't have time to come to the session. If you planned for the session to begin at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes, 10 o'clock and 39 minutes or some other time, you should have made an appointment, so point out to us in the conference, so we might even be able to hand over the many additions to the agenda that we have and that we believe are extremely important to our citizens. I believe that you do not want to discuss the committees of inquiry, probably the one concerning the AP Vojvodina is the one that you would particularly like to avoid, but these manipulations that you are serving are really coming out of what this Rules of Procedure allows you to do. You told colleagues Djurisic that you were asked by Prime Minister and Minister Mihajlovic to call this session, so please tell me when they asked you to, at what time? Did they ask you yesterday at 9 p.m. and 59 minutes to schedule a session for today and did they ask that this information be inserted into the e-parliament only at 10 o'clock and one minute, when it was too late to submit proposals to supplement the agenda and did they ask you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26224	Thank you. So, article 88 is talking about something else, they're talking about putting into account a copy of the presence of the MPs and that the quorum is determined by the count of the MPs, which was not the need to be done. (Alexandra Jerkov: Item 2 and 3) Items 2 and 3 All right. I didn't hurt my article in 88th, and everything else was very malignancies. If you were here yesterday for a vote, you might be able to do what is the duty of the MPs, so, to participate in the work and to be able to do in good time what some MP might have wanted to do, but I can't predict it. I'm here every day. Alexander Jerkov throws. I can't hear anyone throwing. Alexander Jerkov throws. Yeah, they didn't call me in a minute to 10, but I was working here, there was a vote, and the next thing I knew I could do was go to my office and keep doing some other stuff. Somehow I can't do everything at the same time. I was asked a few hours earlier while I was here to approach the vote. If I'm not mistaken, you weren't in the O.R. at 10. (Alexandra Jerkov: Yes. No, you came in a little later, and since the opposition MPs enter the hall and do not want to give a quorum, of course I have waited, as every speaker of parliament, for a certain time to make sure that I have enough MPs to start, or open a session, which is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If I could take five or ten minutes off, we can talk about it. I'm sure we wouldn't be... Alexander Jerkov throws. Don't throw it away, it's not nice. I am convinced that you would not be satisfied after a five and 10 minute break, because as it is said – we know each other, and we will certainly vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 88, 1 and 2. (Alexandra Jerkov: St. 2 and 3. You didn't ask me. Thank you for the correction. Do any of the MPs want to ask for a notice? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26225	Thank you, President. Almost three weeks ago, I asked here, I would say, a set of questions about staying in the Republic of Serbia and KIM of certain Jim, or James Dawson, fascists, ultranationalists, very problematic and as such detected in an international community that is forbidden to enter neighbouring Hungary, also in Greece, and to appeal to the Republic of Hungary, but it appears miraculously intensively in the Republic of Serbia, in the official institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Although I have asked this question about his stay, movements, donations to Serbian monasteries, some paragroups in Kosovo and Metohija at several addresses of ministers, BIA director, VBA director, I only received an answer from the director of the government office for Kosovo and Metohija, Marko Đuric, who said that the person mentioned in the parliamentary issue of the Marinika Tepic MP is not known to any of the employees in the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. I'm responsible for saying that this is false, that this is false. Either someone planted this response to Mark Djuric and signed for him or the director of the government's office for Kosovo and Metohija, Marko Đuric, lied, or faked this response. I also have proof of that. This is the photograph, personally posted by Jim, or James Dawson, on social networks on his profile, which proves that he was pleasantly admitted to the official institutions of the Republic of Serbia, otherwise in the company of convicted right-wingist Misa Vacic, whom Marko Djuric also long said was not employed in the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, so it was confirmed that Marko Djuric was also caught in a lie. Otherwise, this photograph of Dawson, with his associate Niko Griffin and Mis Vacic, was photographed in the Palace of Serbia, in the offices of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, so in the official premises of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I suppose, at a time when the government was led by Aleksandar Vukic, the president of the same party, SNS, in which Marko Đuric is vice president. I ask further questions, to be answered, which of the government officials, former or present, had business meetings with Jim, or James Dawson? What was Vacic doing at the meeting anyway? On what basis did Serbia receive this foreign citizen at the Palace? We all know that this is the offices of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija in the eastern wing of the Palace of Serbia, and the entire western wing is the seat of the MUP. We all know very well that a fly cannot enter there without a detailed check, let alone two foreign citizens with such biographies and such negative status in the entire international community, such as Nick Griffin and James Dawson. I also ask to be answered -- is Jim Dawson, as a private person and foreign citizen, allowed to donate Serbian monasteries and various paramilitary groups in Kosovo through government services? This is usually a photograph that Dawson himself published on his own profile, as I said, boasting that he had meetings with the official authorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If this happened during the period when all the fake employment and unemployment of Misa Vacic was in the public eye, which is the winter of this year, in particular January, when he was on the Russian train, which was supposed to drive from Belgrade to Kosovo Mitrovica, and was stopped, presented as an adviser, this means that this visit was in 2016, or much earlier than we later managed to figure out that Griffin and Dawson were moving around Serbia uninterrupted, of course, in May of this year. In addition, I am asking a very urgent question to Minister Stefanovic -- what knowledge he has and what he has done about the slapping of SNS political commissioner Branko Malovic Mayor Vrsac, although he did so with my colleague here, it is a public secret, Željko Susec, he probably cannot admit it, but official applications...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26226	Thank you very much. The word is Slavisa Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26227	Thank you, Chairman. I have a few questions for Alexander Vukic and Ivica Dacic, as signatories on behalf of the Serbian state, so-called Brussels Agreements. In the last few days, we have had the opportunity to hear through the media, and above all through Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic's statements, that Suriname and Guinea-Bissau have withdrawn their decision to recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, which is, of course, if that's true, I believe it is true, and unlike Alexander Vukic, who, in his own time, spoke of Ivica Dacic, in 2008 more specifically, to agree with whatever he says, I believe it is true and I look forward to that truth, as I believe that the entire Assembly is looking forward to it. His last statement, as far as I could see, is that he said that the number of countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence will fall below 100, which is also for joy. Of course, this raises a few questions and asks one basic question, which I will ask the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic and Dacic – when will the state of Serbia do this and how long will it wait for others to do so, and that by actually implementing the Brussels agreements, it recognises Kosovo's independence? So when he'll withdraw his signatures, his paraphrases with so-called. Brussels agreements? Because believe the consequences of our chances of keeping Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia far greater than these individual recognitions of the state. As you can see, someone who has admitted verbally or otherwise independent Kosovo can at some point withdraw that decision and what are the consequences? Practically no consequences. We are coming to some previous situation, unlike the Brussels agreements where the state of Serbia, or those of the people who are leading, in this case, Alexander Vukic, left it to the Brussels state of Serbia, etc. An independent Kosovo by leaving institutions, Serbian institutions, state institutions so-called. An independent Kosovo. The second question, which I am asking on behalf of the remaining people in the area of KIM – why is Alexander Vukic in a hurry to resolve the question of KIM right now, this particular generation and that generation? Why is he trying to solve this now? He says he's doing it for our children, for future generations. Believe me, I asked my kids, I've got three of them, though they're not kids anymore, they're full-aged, they just told me that if I had a chance to meet up with Alexander Vukic to tell him that he's not doing it, because he's doing it the wrong way. The third question, which I would also like to ask Alexander Vukic to answer to the Serbian public today – whether he will sign the so-called. Obliging a comprehensive agreement with the state of Kosovo? He announced it to the public. He said that if the state wants to join the EU it must do so. We expect now immediately at the beginning to say whether he is ready to place such a signature on the document and thus finally recognises the separatist formation in Pristina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26228	Thank you. The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26229	Thank you. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you a few questions. A specific question for RTS. Since we are witnesses, and this is a large number of our viewers, who watch RTS, see when certain winter centres are mentioned in Kopalnik, Zlatibor, and there is no mention of Stara Planina, and we know that 20 days ago on the Stara Planina, a hydrometeorological centre is built, one of the most modern in Serbia, so we can say in the Balkans, so I am interested – will it be possible, in the coming period, to talk about winter centres, about the weather as it is in winter centres, to necessarily mention the Stara Planina? It is the only place where a successful greenfield investment in Serbia has been made. Witnesses that a year ago were working on the infrastructure towards the Old Mountain, where a number of access routes were made across the municipality from which I came, which is the municipality of Svrljig. The infrastructure has been built, it's been done 15 kilometers, which is now a very high-quality and excellent road, where people who come and want to come to the Old Mountain can come through Svrlig. There'll be a road going through the Pirot. So also through Književec, and in talks with people who lead the roads, with people who lead the government, with the president of Serbia, it is expected that the next period will also be done through the White Palanca. We are witnessing that the southeast of Serbia is the hardest, but such investments, such as the Stara Planina, are developing in this way the entire part of Serbia. Also, I am interested in whether the Stara Planina Company, since we know that since the end of 2015, public management has taken over the Stara Planina Public Enterprise and the Public Enterprise Resort, which are the hotel and other accompanying items, will have any new things concerning the Stara Planina programme? Is there going to be an opening season in mid-December because we know that a large number of people are coming to the Old Mountain and there's really quality winter services, quality programs? I can once again praise the new management led by Goran Karadzic, who is very interested in bringing as many people to the Stara Planina and hanging out as well as in the winter and summer period of the programme. By the way, we all know that the real great chance of developing southeastern Serbia is tourism, agriculture, so I'm interested in whether in the coming period it will be possible for public media to always mention what time it is, what condition are the roads to the Old Mountain? I would like to point out once again that almost all access routes have been done in the best possible way and that the government of the Republic of Serbia and our president of Serbia, and we all want to make tourism more important through the development and infrastructure programme. One more question for the Ministry of Agriculture. It can be said that it is also for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, because there is the National Employment Service. I'm interested, since in the last few months we've been talking about cooperatives, the development of cooperatives, employment in the fight against the gray economy through the cooperative programme, will it be possible to go through the 2018 employment plan that the National Employment Service is doing, to provide jobs for all those people who have formed a cooperative? This is very important for the development of agriculture, the employment of young people. I would also ask the Ministry of Agriculture – will it be possible through the Ministry of Agriculture programme in the coming 2018 to employ professional high-school people who have graduated from agriculture, veterinary colleges through the cooperative programme and thus to finance and employ people who are professional, who know? In this way, we will have a safe opportunity for our agriculture with an accent on healthy food to go southeastern Serbia on a much better path? In a conversation with Minister Nedimovic, he received much confidence that in the coming 2018, much more will be done in southeastern Serbia as regards the programme for the development of agriculture, as well as throughout Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26230	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26231	We're going back to work. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26232	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the occasion of my question is yesterday's verdict to Serbian General Ratko Mladic. This is an important topic for us from the JS, and I am sure of a number of Serbian citizens. The Hague tribunal, the biggest disgrace in the history of the world judiciary, I am free to say one genocide, quote Mr Dragan Markovic Palm – yesterday's verdict by General Ratko Mladic, The Hague tribunal lowers the curtain to the greatest disgrace in the history of world justice. The result of the Hague tribunal's work is that those who were the most injured are the most convicted. In all, Serbs have been sentenced to 12 centuries in prison, and Croats, Muslims and Albanians for about 200 years, with Croats mainly being convicted of crimes against Muslims and vice versa. That means no one's guilty of crimes against Serbs. Since the murder of the Zec family in Zagreb, "Cristal Nights" in Zadar, the persecution of Serbs from Croatian cities, via Miljevac, Medački pocket, Ravni Kotar to "Bleska" and the largest ethnic cleansing in Europe since World War II, "The Storm", through Podrinj, Kravica, Bratunc, Sarajevo to Starogradski, Podujev, Obbilić, Kosovo and Metohija. That was said yesterday by JS President Dragan Markovic Palma. It is very important to know that Ratko Mladic was the last to defend the creation of an Islamic state in Europe. Over 10,000 mujahedins from the Middle East slaughtered in BiH Serbs and created their own state. Clinton and his European advisers knew that they would later receive terrorist attacks in New York, London, Paris, Brussels, Madrid, Berlin and all over Europe. Had it not been for Ratko Mladic and Republika Srpska, we would have cancer, Mosul and El Baghdad in Europe today. In addition, there are still Islamic centres in BiH, and Muslim chief Bakir Izetbegovic is still calling for war today. The question also for Dutch judge Alfonso Oria – where are Serbia from Zagreb, Sarajevo and Pristina, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Metohija? The Hague tribunal and its financials and commanders are responsible for the terrorist actions of Islamists across Europe because they have allowed them to do so in BiH. That's what the citizens of Europe, the United States, and all they need to know. This is what our president said yesterday. Why did I read this? It's about a question I want to ask. To be clear, there are no good and bad wars, every war carries its tragedy and death. None of my friends from Bosnia, Croatia, Serbia wanted war and today we all suffer the consequences of these wars. For wars, the main culprits, as a rule, remain unpunished. A question for the Justice Minister – what efforts has Serbia made so far to serve this sentence for poor and impaired health in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26233	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Radojićic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26234	Thank you. The question for the acting president of the First Basic Court in Belgrade – on the basis of which rules and decisions on 14.11.2017, was allowed the citizen Niko Petrovic to enter the court parking lot in the building at the Nikola Tesla 42a boulevard, and to then, with the presence and escort of members of the judicial guard, join the hearing in the litigation process? Was it a demonstration of force and pressure on the court and sending a message to the judge what decision was expected of him? Question for the Minister of Telecommunications and Director Telekom – Get me bank guarantees from the electronic phone distributor company "Futura Plus" "DTM relations" and from 1 April to 1 November 2009, which were required by the contract with Telekom to deliver them to twice the amount of weekly traffic. According to the Telecom Business Co-operation Agreement and Future Plus No 111 786 of 9 October 2006 and Annex No 1 to 3 of that contract, Future was required to deliver such a bank guarantee and to ask for that contract to be delivered to me. I'm also asking you to send me the following future accounts from 2009: account number 1657/1412 at 973,216,14 dinars of 16. 05; account number 1723/1412 at 45,721,924,30 dinars of 23. 05; account number 1786/1412 at 44,228,005,80 dinars of 30. 05; Account number 1854/1412 at 47,070,182,28 dinars of 6. 06; account number 2027/1412 at 52,143,853,60 dinars of 13. 06; account number 2088/1412 at 50,928,560,35 dinars of 20. 06; account number 2131/1412 at 48 million 795 thousand 28 dinars and four pairs of 27. 06; account number 2193/1412 at 52 million 314 thousand 617 dinars and 19 pairs of 4. 07; account number 2272/1412 at 15 million 928 thousand 954 dinars and nine pairs of 7. 07; account number 2398/1412 at 34 million 149 thousand 237 dinars of 11. 07; account number 2460/1412 at 54 million 135 thousand 533 dinars of 18. 07; account number 2554/1412 at 39 million 279 thousand 795 dinars of 25. 07; account number 2572/1412 at 23 million 907 thousand 243 dinars of 01. Eight. The total is 509,576,143,79 dinars or 5,480,000 euros. I'm looking for the same accounts for the period from April to November 2009. Who allowed "Futura Plus", then owned by Darko Saric, to enter such a minus, which is not covered by security funds, which is why no bank guarantee has been activated, but has already filed a lawsuit with Telekom? Has a criminal record been filed against the people who damaged Telekom and allowed Darko Saric to damage Telekom by nearly five and a half million euros? Did Telekom charge this money? Did Darko Saric use these five and a half million euros to buy "Mitrosrema"? Of course it is. Question for the special prosecutor for organised crime – Is this amount of five and a half million Telekom included in the money laundering charge against Darko Saric? Have you been investigating the relationship between the Telecom managers in money laundering of Darko Saric's drug clan? Question for Alexander Vukic: Mr. Vukic, do you know Sean Fitz Patrick and Bill James and have you met them again on your last visit to Washington? The two mentioned directly oversee all CIA personnel in Serbia and were directly superior to Miki Rakic, your former head and founder of the SNS? Mr. Vukicu, did you participate in the location of Ratko Mladic by order of Miki Rakic, for what was Bruno Vekaric publicly thanked you for? Did you arrange meetings with individuals in your wine cellar in the Eggs? This is about more than 10 people who, according to CIA information, had knowledge of the movements of General Mladic and the same, along with the French wine given to you by Cane Subotić, offered money and other services to reveal the location of the generals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26235	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26236	Thank you. I'm Vladimir Djuric. They didn't hear who was called, so I have to explain. Thank you. We ask the Presidents of the Assembly a question the 27th time, and we ask them to answer us in writing, without oral comments from the chair. The question is: When will she put on the agenda a request for her shift, as she promised, how would this home discuss the way she runs this home? We also ask why this session has been cancelled in an illegal manner, which has disabled the addition of the agenda to the opposition's proposals, because the session's call on the e-parliament was registered after 10 hours, and on the calendar of Parliament's website only around 10.45 hours. This is the 34th time we ask the president of the country, and we ask him when he will resign as party president, in order to act only as president and not another public office in accordance with the Constitution? Then we ask if the coalition with Ramush Haradinaj is in the introduction of a preamble from the Constitution and we ask a very logical question, to give citizens an explanation. During the spring, we suspended relations with the Republic of France for three months for the release of Ramush Haradinaj, who was arrested on Serbian Interpol warrant. We would like to get an explanation of a very logical question – what has changed so that Ramush Haradinaj of the person the state of Serbia is seeking through Interpol has become a similar coalition partner to Serbian politicians in Kosovo, and to those politicians who were personally elected by the president of the country as candidates and through the director of the government office for Kosovo welcomed and congratulated them on the election result? Has Ramush Haradinaj changed or has the president of Serbia changed, and how do citizens understand that? The next question is asked by the republican public prosecutor and we ask what the prosecution is doing about the allegations made by the president of Serbia in an interview with Insider, in which he suggested that Article 13(3) was violated. A law on the financing of political organisations and activities, under which it is forbidden to contribute to a political entity through a third party? At the same time, we remind the Anti-Corruption Agency, that according to Article 35, the procedure in which it determines the existence of a violation of the law, is it official, and we ask the Agency's director's answer to the question whether the procedure is ongoing and whether the information provided has been forwarded to the prosecution? The issue does not concern the cost of funding the ruling party's pre-election campaign from previous election cycles that we know the Agency has already forwarded to the prosecution. The issue concerns both the Agency and the Prosecutor's Office on the cost of funding the presidential campaign, during which nearly 7,000 citizens in equal amounts, out of 40,000 dinars, made a donation on the same day in favour of Serbia's pre-election campaign in the spring presidential elections, which the president himself suggested in the interview that it was money paid through a third party, which is explicitly prohibited by article 13 of the law. According to the information received by BIRN, the donations made by donors to the party's party premises and according to instructions were paid with already prepared payments to the accounts for the financing of the presidential campaign, which raises the question of the origin of that money and raises doubts that the money laundering scheme and the concealment of the source of money illegally provided from an unknown source is a criminal offence under Article 38. The law on financing political activities. I also repeat the question to the Prime Minister, which I asked the last time I asked parliamentary questions, namely, the Administrative Court ruled on 7 September 2017, which requires the government's General Secretariat to deliver the information required by the Transparency of Serbia in connection with the concession for the airport "Nikola Tesla", so our largest airport. It is obvious that the information about the tendering procedure in the concession is being hidden, so I wonder if the Government of the Republic of Serbia has delivered the requested documentation within the prescribed deadline, with the ruling of the Administrative Court, to the organisation Transparency of Serbia? Has anyone in the government been prosecuted for hiding this information? We ask the finance minister to provide us with a tabular review of the obligations of all businesses in Serbia, which have activated guarantees based on their achievements and unpaid liabilities on the loans they have taken, as information says they account for about a billion euros in half of this year. Finally, this way I am taking the opportunity that because of the way this session was called, I will announce that the MP group has had enough, and will boycott the same... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26237	The word has a folk MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26238	Thank you, Chairman. I think your move has shown, once again, all the inequality in the treatment of MPs, because when an MP from the ruling majority asks a question, he can ask six minutes until he finishes his question. You interrupted a colleague and you wouldn't let him finish the question and what he had to say for another ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26239	Ask my colleague Đurisic a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26240	The question is how much does it make sense to ask questions, Mr. Chairman, since we don't get answers on the last questions. We don't get answers for months back. When the government thinks, let's say, to implement the Law on Public Enterprises, which, when it was brought here, has determined a few things. First, that all directors of public enterprises in Serbia will be elected to the competition, and that the competition must be completed by March 2017. The other thing is that the most professional people, not party-like people, will be elected in competitions, and that the law will ultimately lead to the breakup of ties between political parties and public enterprises. None of that happened. The law, passed by this majority, is not respected. So 90% of public enterprises are run by officials. Competitions are not completed, and officials are, as a rule, high party officials of SNS, SPS or PUPS. Then the fight against workers for their rights in these public enterprises is declared a political struggle and political attack, because the government has not fulfilled its obligation. Although I asked the question, a few months ago, when that would change, the Prime Minister, when the competitions would be over and the directors would be elected, and not the corporate executives, there is no answer. So what's the point of asking questions? What was the point when I asked Minister Stefanovic if he deliberately or accidentally lied, when he said that the participants of the protest "The fight against dictatorship" would not be taken any criminal action, and today we see that, not two or four young people are involved in these protests from the announcement of the month this year, but 34 are on the list of the criminal court who wants to, contrary to the announcement of the police minister, who said the police would not take any action, and we see from the violations reports that the police and how it worked. She followed these young people, identified them in a way I don't know which way, and then filed criminal charges, as protest organisers, and they weren't protest organisers, because the protest wasn't organised, it was spontaneous. As predicted by the law, the possibility of spontaneous protests. Then why should I ask the question if I can't get an answer? The last question I asked, and perhaps I will get an answer today, because among those whom I asked the question, the Prime Minister and Vice President Ms. Mihajlovic, my question was - when will they answer and inform the public that the project "Er Serbia" has failed? For these three years, over 160m euros, the government has helped the business in various ways. Unfortunately, it can't function positively until today. As the last thing that happened, 340 people employed in "Er Serbia" were transferred to JP "Nikola Tesla" Airport. Apparently, the work they worked for and received from "Er Serbia", now will also be paid by the airport, and reportedly "Er Serbia" will pay the services to the airport. And we all know that it won't and that that's another way to go around the EU ban on subsidisation that exists and that we have to stick to, which this government is breaking. The government has been breaking it since the start of the Er Serbia project, and for all that money, it has failed to make a profitable company.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26241	We'll pass on your question, Mr. Djurishic, but I'm notifying you -- what questions, what answers. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26242	I don't know what's wrong with the other side. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I will ask a few questions, particularly the president of the National Assembly, unfortunately for the citizens of Serbia, the president of the National Assembly. First question, can this tall House and this parliament ever have decent work and sometimes work starts on time? Today the work began with a 45-minute delay. Will the President of Parliament ever respect the Rules of Procedure and say if there is no quorum or if it has any obligations? I don't want to go into reasons at all, but I'm just asking a question -- can this parliament ever start working on time, not to be 45 minutes late every session? All MPs here, whether someone likes them and their policy or not, are representatives of the citizens and each parliamentary group represents a number of citizens who voted for it, whether it is smaller, whether it is bigger, and I ask you to appeal through this issue to the President of the Assembly to finally begin to hold a session as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. The second question is also asked by the speaker of parliament – why is he demeaning the citizens of Serbia and why is he an actor of every incident in this assembly? Is that a plan to make out of this high house and all MPs something they're not? Is it someone's idea to make this Parliament something that is commonplace that all MPs are bad, that all MPs do nothing, and so do other bodies, but at this point we are talking about parliament, and why is the President giving a tone? That's another question. Why did the President of Parliament call today's meeting against the Rules of Procedure and against the Rules? Why did the President of Parliament steal 50 changes and add bad, catastrophic advance laws and 25 committees to the opposition, and above all the DS? The opposition MPs and DS MPs have over 100 amendments and additions to the law, which is our right, and the President of Parliament has taken this right away from us in a highly discriminatory way. Here, I also have a paper here that the session scheduled for today was not scheduled yesterday before 10.00 hours ago. Can there finally be some order in this House and respect for the laws of this country, respect for the Rules of Procedure, and we all work according to the laws and constitution of this state? This is proof that you falsely called this session, but that's not a problem, because everything SNS does and represents is a fake. Like a fake surplus, like a fake investment... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26243	Ask a question. (Radoslav Milojic: Well, I'm asking a question. No, you're not asking a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26244	Yeah, I'm asking a question. I don't know why you're nervous. Is it because someone can talk about your affairs? I don't really understand why you're taking away my word, Mr. Arsic. Did you call today a meeting contrary to the Rules of Procedure, because you do not have the courage to hear our committees of inquiry that we want to represent here in the Assembly? Did you call a meeting against the Rules of Procedure because you do not want to hear that the prime minister's brother participated in the "Gossa" shut-down affair? Did you call today's session against the Rules of Procedure, because you don't have the courage to hear you shut down FAP after 60 years? Did you call this session against the Rules of Procedure, because you do not want Serbian citizens to know where Minister Vulina's 250,000-euro apartment came from? While soldiers flee the army, the minister buys an apartment of 250,000 euros. Did you call today's session because you don't want to hear our questions about the appointment of committees? You called a session against the Rules of Procedure, because you do not want to give us answers about who beat the press at the inauguration of Alexander Vukic. Have you called today's session, against the Rules of Procedure, because you do not want to answer us about the poll committees proposed by DS today, and there are 25, who damaged the goods reserves in the Republic of Serbia? I'm not saying all this because of us, MPs of the DS, who have 50 amendments and additions to the law, I'm saying this on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Every citizen who says the opposite of what SNS and Alexander Vukic want... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26245	We will forward your questions, Mr. Milojic, and the President of Parliament and the other bodies to which you have referred the question. Just to remind you that we've been working, time has elapsed, and just to remind you that we worked both on Friday and Monday, that the 400 amendments submitted by the opposition's MPs have gone over and nobody's answering for a word, so no one's stopping you from speaking. You didn't get it from me. Parliamentary question, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26246	The chairman, I did not ask to ask a parliamentary question because I was not authorized to do so, but the MP asked me a few questions, and he did not say he was looking for an answer by written means. (Radoslav Milojic): I meant in writing. ) These distinguished Vice-President Gordana Komic can teach young MP Milojic, who needs years to spend time here, that then the person to whom the question is addressed is obliged to answer that question, if she is willing to answer. Do you allow me to answer the question of MPs Radoslav Milojic? (Alexandra Jerkov: No. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26247	Keep going, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26248	I don't mean those who yell, but I mean you who run the session. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26249	I'll allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26250	Thank you. If he allows the opposition some time to get some kind of response to the sea of insults and lies that he makes here on account of the personalities he makes in his lies and insults. So, just because of the citizens of Serbia, I have to repeat what was said at the beginning, and MP Radoslav Milojic, the truth does not say exactly which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured when the session was scheduled, because he either does not know it or is false here, which is earlier on... (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Yes, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, perhaps one day. You said it at the beginning and you asked me when I would stop participating in the incidents that happen here every day. No, I have never participated in any incident happening in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Two weeks ago, I was the victim of an event, which is when three MPs of the Dveri group brutally attacked me, first verbally harassed, so take the textbook and see what violence means against women and men when it's done verbally, and when they were able to verbally manipulate me, then they also applied force, which is what the witnesses finds in the government and parliament building, but later in a military medical facility that I went to check-ins. Also, I couldn't even participate... (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26251	I'm asking my colleagues to die. So you asked a question, now you get an answer. What do you have against it? Continue, colleague Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26252	I know that the honourable MPs Maja Vidinovic and other opposition women mind when you say that their colleagues, their coalition partners are making violence against women, they're making violence against politicians, they're beating up MPs in parliament here, and I know it's ruining their picture of themselves, because when they look at themselves in the mirror, they kind of seem sophisticated, they act civil, they act classy, and they can't face it that they're everything, but they're not. So, I didn't participate in an incident that Bosko Obradovic and Marija Janjusevic and I don't know which of the Dvori MPs did two days ago when they brutally attacked and physically attacked and injured Aleksandar Martinović, president of the Administrative Board. I don't know what Radoslav Milojic was talking about then, and why there is no power to ask the question as to how long the president of parliament, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, will tolerate the physical violence of the Dveri parliamentary group. According to the Rules of Procedure, I could impose another sentence away from the session, and only a big question was why Aleksandar Martinovic was so much of a Democrats and allowed Bosca Obradovic, who has the punishment of distance, to participate, says in the Rules of Procedure – the punishment of distance and the work of 20 days of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, allowed him to enter the session, let the abuse of MPs, and, of course, it happened in physical violence against him. In this parliament, the least problem is whether the Rules of Procedure is respected, so a session is scheduled 24 hours before the start, because it is allowed, and the bigger problem is that DS, which is that all those who are in the coalition with the Dvori and who count on them in the elections for the Belgrade City Assembly, do not condemn physical violence, or even in TV shows when Bosko Obradovic and Srdjan Nogo take out my health reports and show the public they continue to sit in the study with them and thus approve the violence they are committing. So much for me. It is my answer to you and to the violations of the Rules of Procedure, of which citizens do not live at all, but citizens live on what you are making a mess of this Parliament and do not allow us to pass laws that mean life here in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26253	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26254	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm advocating Article 108, that it is the order of the session of the old president of the National Assembly, at this point you are chairing. Please explain to me why the previous speaker received the right of five minutes to speak here mentioning my name four times consecutively and colleague Maja Vidinović. We should all go from the opposition to the line. Of course, replacing the thesis is, and of course DS is neither, nor will ever be in coalition with the Twors, not at the local nor at the republican level, and of course, DS condemns every kind of violence, especially towards members of the gentler sex. So, putting something in your mouth, especially DS, which has been advocated for 27 years for freedom of the media, freedom of speech, the rule of law, the respect of institutions, while Mrs Gojkovic was in the SRS, so it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26255	Comrade Milojic, you asked the speaker a few questions and held an entire public forum on these issues. (Radoslav Milojic: Correct. ) Do you agree with me that working in parliament is two-way? (Radoslav Milojic): But not when it comes to parliamentary issues. ) So, the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, was able to answer you from here, but she wanted you to be completely equal with her and she sat among the MPs. You have received answers, and you will receive them in writing within 15 days. The problem is obvious that when you ask a question with some tendency and reason to make a criminal association out of Serbia, when you get an answer, you do not like the answer. (Radoslav Milojic): Not from Serbia, but from SNS. ) One more thing, Mr. Milojic, don't ever talk to me about the democracy run by the DS since October 5th, when we haven't even had a session of the National Assembly and after the state of emergency. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26256	Mr. Arsic, you obviously need help running the session, I'm Nemanja Sarovic, I'm not Alexander Nemanja Sarovic, I don't know what that means to you, you forgot your past, Mr. Arsic, but you seem to have forgotten my name as well. You can read it now on the screen. Several members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, among other things by a member of the 27th who says - the National Assembly president represents the National Assembly, convenes meetings and chaires them and does other tasks, so Article 32 says - the president of the National Assembly, in the event of temporary prevention or absence, is replaced by vice presidents. We just had a situation for Maja Gojkovic to sit in the O.R. instead of working and doing the duty she took. You were obliged to let us know if she was prevented. You were obliged to let us know if she was absent, if she was unable to perform her duty. A member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, it is unacceptable for the president of the National Assembly to say that the opposition is a bunch of lies. You were obliged to react. You were obliged to give a warning. You, Mr. Arsic, if you respected this Rules of Procedure, you'd give yourself some kind of sanctions. You would now say to yourself a fine measure of distance from the session, so you would consider these 20 working days how, read the Rules of Procedure, how to lead and do so. You've allowed Maja Gojkovic to tell the Rules of Procedure a full six minutes, three times as long as what was scheduled for the Rules of Procedure. Three times as long.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26257	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26258	You broke the order, because you were obliged to give the first word to me, not to Mr. Milojicic, because I answered significantly before him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26259	I don't know, colleague Sarovic, when you called. About what it looks like when you are expelled from your work, I can talk to you and not you, because when I was excluded, you only dreamed of being an MP, and there's something else you have to agree with me, that the President of the Assembly is, above all, a National MP and don't take away the right to be a National MP. And as a People's Messenger, he has the right to participate in the work of the National Assembly, not just the chairmanship. The word is made by the MP Maja Vidinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26260	Vice President Arsic, I invite you to read Article 207 together. The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament. So the play that is the continuation of that, the abuse of the procedure and the mockery of democracy and all that you did yesterday, preventing not the opposition MPs from proposing laws, but the citizens from silently, I urge you to read Article 207 which says that the minister present has the right to the MP, who has asked the parliamentary question, to answer immediately. We had a national MP, Maja Gojkovic, because she was a national MP at the moment, not the speaker of the Assembly, if the president of the Assembly is sitting in his seat and responding to the MP, as the speaker of the Assembly. You have equally violated the Rules of Procedure and because of the following fact, which is that the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question he has received. I ask you - by which member of the People's Parliament has Maja Gojkovic, received the word of six minutes to speak, in response to the parliamentary question? Please tell us if she won by that member, in which case you broke it, because she spoke as a national MP, not as president of the National Assembly. Furthermore, I ask you to answer me why, then, the MP to whom she answered the question did not allow you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to explain, ask, an additional question within three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26261	I will answer you immediately because my colleague Radojićičić did not ask for an answer or comment on his question, but asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which he received immediately. (Radoslav Milojic: First, when will you learn my last name? ) Now in accordance with Article 112, I am setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's Messenger Đorđe Milicevic. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojičić: According to the Rules of Procedure. What does this look like? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26263	The Honorable Chairman, since at the presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament... Mr. Milojicic, I don't give the word, I got the word to ask the question and use it right. So, I don't give the word, I get the word. Let me ask you a question. Now I'm asking a question as an MP. So, following a consultation he held in Kiev, the ambassador of Ukraine, he continued with statements that were not in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group. They are not an example of good treatment and are not in line with the Vienna conventions and are deeply intruding into Serbia's internal affairs. Among other things, Ukrainian Ambassador Aleksandar Alexandrovich says Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic has not received him for 14 months. We propose to Mr Dacic whether he will receive it, if that is true, and after 14 months, because if Mr Ambassador could not have understood earlier, he could have realised for 14 months that Serbia is independent and independent, that Serbia is leading an independent and independent foreign policy in line with its national and state interests in the best interests of our country and citizens, which is the withdrawal of recognition of Kosovo and Metohija by the two countries, the Surinam and Guinea-Bissau. For a moment, someone asked if it was true. Yes, it is true and this is the result of a successful foreign policy led by Serbia's state summit on the defence of national and state interests, and criticism for the work of criticism will not solve the Kosovo and Metohija issue. Hiding behind political parliaments will not solve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija but rather dialogue in Brussels and the internal dialogue launched in Serbia, and the only way to reach a sustainable compromise and fair solution. Yes, it is true, and those who do not believe, for a little while have said it themselves, remains to believe them and to rejoice in the positive results of such foreign policy. Due to the above-mentioned conduct of the Ukrainian ambassador, we want the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ask a few questions, and above all for the sake of the truth, for the sake of the public, and we believe that citizens simply need to know that. Did Ukrainian Foreign Minister Klimkin receive Serbian ambassadors to Ukraine for four years, Mr Bulatovic? Is it true he hasn't received it once in four years? How did the Ukrainian delegation behave during the vote of UNESCO in 2015? Did she plead or leave the O.R.? Look, if she left the hall, then it is the official position of a delegation, which shows the relationship Ukraine has towards international rights and defence of territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia. It is widely known that this issue is of exceptional interest to Serbia. We are also interested in Ukraine's position on the Western country's proposal to amend the mandate of the UN mission in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as to change the dynamics of the UN Security Council session? In the end, I want to make it very clear and precise again. So Serbia is clearly defined and committed to development and good relations with all countries of the world including Ukraine, but that certainly will not do any harm to its interests and will always, in the best way, protect and defend its national and state interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26264	Thank you. I don't see what can happen about the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 287. Djordje Milicevic, as a national MP, was given the right to ask a parliamentary question, and if you mean earlier violations of the Rules of Procedure, you can only do so directly to the injured of the Rules of Procedure. (Nemnja Sarovic: Here, it is done directly. So he couldn't have been straight. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26265	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, at first, I would like to conclude that what Mr. Ristic has said represents the most common hatred for the president of the state and we are looking at it more for days here. How else do you explain the fact that he mentioned a colleague while in the DSS was in fact extradited to Albanians, and during his existence in the DSS, he was also handed over to the UN tribunal in the UN. He himself receives today the salary paid by the taxpayers in Serbia, and then I ask why there is no state of Serbia in Kosovo when he himself is an obvious example that it is not so. My next question to Mr. Stefanovic is the obvious desire of the state to deal with corruption, which we have had the opportunity to see in the last few days, but this time I want to point to a decade-long problem that has not been seriously affected by any other government so far, which is stealing babies from the maternity ward. I will remind you that the 2005 Survey Committee has concluded that this decade-long problem exists, but until today we have no court epilogue or anyone responsible for such a thing. As a rule, around the disappearance of the baby there were very suspicious data, the documentation is very gross, the conclusion is that in most cases babies were born alive and later died, more than 90% of parents couldn't see their child who allegedly died, and over 2,000 parents didn't get confirmation that their babies were buried. It is estimated that in this way it has been stolen from the maternity home for about 7,000 babies in the last 30 years, and that the value of a newborn is the former 15,000 euros today. Unfortunately, this topic has also been covered by very secret so far, and here it is more than clear that inspection services have not done their job well, but obviously many others. So I ask Mr Stefanovic – what will the police do to get rid of this big problem from a dead end? My next question is to ask Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic – why has the government's work on the discovery of secret tombs in Serbia that the communists fired after September 1944 been abolished? All these people were liquidated without any judicial epilogues. The movement to restore the Kingdom of Serbia that I represent in this Parliament does not want any revenge or division in our people. On the contrary, we want a final national reconciliation, not the fake that once was, several years ago placed on citizens, reconciliation that will be based on the history of our people and, of course, to find and mark all the places of innocently injured people at the end and after the end of World War II. I don't think that's much to ask, and I think it's the obligation of every normal human being. I would have another question, I would ask him, Minister Djordjevic – when will the war veteran law be passed? Having participated in wars in the early 1990s, I believe it is my obligation to ask such a question in view of the situation of war veterans, especially their position and those expectations that were failed right after 2000 when these people were simply collateral damage to some wars that Serbia allegedly did not wage. And finally, if I still have time to use it, it is in some way a recommendation, as well as a call from Minister Djordjevic, because next year it is 100 years since the founding of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians and 100 years since the first World War. I believe that, as a member of this House, both King Alexander and King Peter have done much to create democracy in our society, as well as to build this House in which we today can discuss and think that it is necessary next year to raise a monument to these greats, as many other countries have done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26266	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for the Department of Justice. Yesterday, former Chief of Staff of the Republika Srpska Army General Ratko Mladic was unfairly sentenced to life imprisonment before the illegal and anti-Serbian UN tribunal. The Hague tribunal, without a doubt, is a geopolitical instrument in the hands of Western forces, whose only role is to place all blame for the bloody civil war and the collapse of Yugoslavia exclusively on the Serb people. Of course, the Hague tribunal has nothing to do with justice or justice, and it was clear to everyone yesterday. Ratko Mladic was found guilty without any evidence. A great lie and fraud called genocide in Srebrenica, the construction of the UN tribunal of The Hague, aims to delegate the Republic of Serbia, has declared it a genocide, another step towards its gradual abolition. The construction of genocide in Srebrenica is completely contrary to the Convention on Genocide, since no Serbian verdict has proven its special intention, i.e. So-called ‘dolus specialis’, which is a necessary factor in each entity's criminal part of genocide. The UN tribunal's prosecution is unable to prove anything, because there is no evidence and therefore another nebuloza, called the joint criminal enterprise, under which the entire population of Republika Srpska can be incriminated, as soldiers, officers and all civilians, has been published in The Hague tribunal. This joint criminal enterprise is only an excuse to charge as many officers and political leaders as possible before this illegal court and condemn them. My question is, why does the Republic of Serbia agree to this truth served by the Hague tribunal? Is inaction a sign that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia agree with this role that the UN tribunal has given us, and assigned to all Serbs? Why does the Republic of Serbia not establish a scientific institution that will deal with the study of judgments of court proceedings of evidence, testimony of witnesses in The Hague and which will be able to come to the truth and facts? Because of future generations, it is important to establish the facts and historical roles of all these Serbs in this civil war. So, instead of all the authorities of October 5th engaged exclusively in the delivery of Serbs, uncompromising co-operation, from Djindjic, who delivered Slobodan Milosevic to Vidovdan, Vojislav Kostunica, who delivered the most Serbian generals and Boris Tadic, who extradited Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic, Stojan Zupljanin and Goran Hadzic, Serbia could finally do something about The Hague tribunal, which would be useful for the Serb people. Also, why did the authorities and civil servants of the Republic of Serbia not ask the question of serving sentences in Serbia to all convicted Serbs during these visits of UN tribunal President Carmel Adjius, chief prosecutor Serž Brammertz? Convicted Serbs serve their sentences in catastrophic conditions across Europe, prisons worse than they used to be. The health situation of these people is very problematic, especially the president of Republika Srpska Krajina Milan Martic, so I demand an explanation from the Justice Ministry why nothing has been done about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26268	Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov: The Rules of Procedure. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dejan Radenkovic, Dr Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Jasmina Karanac. (Radoslav Milojičić: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) pursuant to Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to us, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established pursuant to Article 92(2) and (3) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals to put on the agenda the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate. The government has proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda - Proposal for a law on the confirmation of amendments and amendments to financial contracts 23.761, 24.745, 25.002, 25.198, 25.497, 25.610, 25.872, 81.657 and 82.640, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. I would like to put this proposal to the vote, please, my fellow Members, to make a statement on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: for– 120, against – 11, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government has proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision to give consent to a decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Republic Trust Fund for Disability Insurance for 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The National MP mg of Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that it be put on the agenda of an emergency procedure - Proposal for a law on the basis of the education and education system submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Alexandra Jerkov: The Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – one, abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic proposed that the emergency procedure be put on the agenda - Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law in the temporary regulation of the way in which pensions are paid, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, is available for – 13, against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested putting on the agenda following an emergency procedure - a bill on the rights of fighters and families of the dead and missing fighters, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, abstentioned, for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sanja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic proposed to put it on the agenda of an emergency procedure - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for three, against one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the emergency procedure be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the role of the highest authorities in Novi Sad in connection with the privatisation of the “Autotransport company of Vojvodina” by building an inter-urban bus station in Novi Sad, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for -11. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the General Court in Novi Sad, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the termination of the Duo Education Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -eight, against - none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors be put on the agenda to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that occurred before and during the oath of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vucic. That was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -12, against - none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Gojkovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty establishing the Transport Community; Proposal for a Law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the Modernisation and Reconstruction of the Hungarian-Serbian Railway Connection Project on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for a Share of the Belgrade Centre – Stara Paz between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a Borrower and Chinese Export-Ipmort Bank, as a Borrower, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-2320/17 of 29 August 2017, with a correction of 6 November 2017; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between KfW, Frankfurt of May and the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Minister of Finance for the Water Supply and Channeling in the Medium-sized Communities in Serbia, which has been adopted by the Government and adopted by 25.67, 25. Does MP Maja Gojkovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 123, v - six, with abstentions, there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, v – two. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, in general. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance, Predrag Poledica and Zoran Lakićevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Tatjana Jovanovic, Darinka Djuran, Jovanka Atanacković, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Branko Drcelic, Executive Director of Public Debt Management at the Ministry of Finance, Radojko Obradović, Special Advisor of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Marko Blažević, Executive Director of the Office for Public Infrastructure and Civil Engineering in the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Slovenia. Consensually Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the Proposals for the Laws referred to in items 1 to 4 of the Agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 192 and Article 97 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170, the following Article 157 is inserted: 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing the Transport Community; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan for a Credit for a Preferred Customer for the Modernisation and Reconstruction of Hungarian-Serbian Railway Connections in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for a Share of the Centre – Stara Paz between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as the Borrow and the Chinese Export-Ipmort Bank, as a Borrower; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Loans between KfW, Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia, which is the Minister of Finance for the Water Supply and Channel Programme of Central Size in Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of Financial Contracts of Financial Contracts 23.761, 24.745, 25.002, 25.198, 25.198, 25.197, 25.197, 25. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26269	Mr. Arsic, here's after the end of these 20, 25 minutes, during which apparently the Rules of Procedure did not apply, I finally got my word. You hurt Article 27, and you hurt Article 103. I will also quote Article 103, paragraph 1, which says: “The MP has the right to orally point to a breach in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at a session that is under way, immediately after the injury has been done. ” You, sir, saw, were also seen by Serbian citizens in a direct transmission that I answered five or six times. You've disabled the system several times and deleted my application from the system. I made it clear and loud that I was answering the Rules of Procedure. That's what a few more MPs did. You have given your word to other speakers, gone to the agenda, persistently ignored and violated the Rules of Procedure, although as chairman, you are the one who should worry about the implementation of the rules contained in this Rules of Procedure. What you're doing is becoming a pattern. Why are you doing this, you know. You're trying to show or prove, in fact, that you're creating a fake image of how the opposition is the one that's unreasonable in the National Assembly, and you're essentially creating such a situation. As of God, you've decided you don't want an emergency election, and it's obvious you will. The only thing you want is to blame the opposition, because you don't have any policy, you don't have any program. Your only plan and programme is an early election every year, so you will only be distracting Serbian citizens with elections. That's the point. We don't lie to each other anymore. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26270	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. During the agenda, it is not possible to harm the Rules of Procedure because the electronic system was then transferred to the vote, so I could not react, but I am also glad that you have legitimateized as a DS lawyer. The word is made by MP Miljan Damjanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26271	Mr. Arsic, I didn't answer your phone after the Rules of Procedure got hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26272	All right, I'm sorry. The word is a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26273	I thank you, Mr. Arsic, after a long time. Of course, I answered right after the injury was done. The fact that I didn't get the word for the injury I did was entirely your fault, and probably another reason to point out to you the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that's what my colleagues did. I'm advocating a violation of Rule 112 of Rules of Procedure, which speaks of a break, where it is clearly said that if the president, or the chairman in our case, can't maintain order on a regular basis at the session, then he sets a break, so I'm asking you what regular measures you've applied, so you haven't been able to maintain order? That's one question. The second question is, where does the Rules of Procedure say that after a break, everything that happened before the break happened and where does it say that then the session moves like nothing happened? Why am I asking this? Because I actually checked in before I pointed you to Article 100's injury. The Rules of Procedure and I have one more question for you. When one of the MPs asks a parliamentary question, and another of the MPs wants to answer, knows the answer, to which member of the Rules of Procedure should we call, Mr Arsic, or where does it say in the Rules of Procedure that the President, in the capacity of the MP, could answer the parliamentary question? Just for advice to ask you where it says it in the Rules of Procedure? Now here's Mr. Gojkovic's colleague talking about missing babies. For three years, I've been asking you to pass the missing babies law, and you're ignoring it. According to which member of the Rules of Procedure, we can report that we answer the parliamentary questions orally, and that, of course, as well as our colleague Gojkovic, we can take advantage of the unlimited time available to us to insult, harass and abuse our colleagues, so that the rest of us apply it, or there are rules that apply only to some?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26274	Here, colleague Jerkov, I'll answer you right now. Regular measures are the following: warning, second warning, word confiscation and distance from session work. These are regular measures. So, you're forcing me to, instead of taking a break to keep my passions down, start with the MPs saying the warnings, take the word, exclude from the work of the Assembly? I don't want to do that. I'm sorry, I don't want to use DS manners. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26275	Mr. Arsic, I'm advocating Article 108 to the session of the old chairman, in this situation you, since Mrs. Gojkovic did not know why she had to leave the session. Probably because of some nice conversation with your party colleagues, but it's not up to us to comment, and I'm asking you to run this session the way you should. I do not blame you for saying that you do not want to apply the Rules of Procedure, because you have once again proved that the SNS does not respect the laws and constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but that you do not respect the Rules of Procedure. If you were to respect this Rules of Procedure to the point, then there wouldn't be a dozen MPs on the other hand, and I support you in that intention, but I ask you not to take away our word when we start to speak the same manner as they do, although it's not possible to have the same manner as the SNS, it's very difficult for someone to have these manners, so bad as SNS, but at least let us at least, in our own way, democratic and cultural, civilized, respond to the accusations and attacks that the SNS, fearing the loss of choice from DS every day serves here. I wouldn't laugh if I were you. I know you're full of refrigerators, wallets and tanks because you stole Serbian citizens, but Serbian citizens are sad. It's nothing funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26276	Go on, fellow Milojitsu. Radoslav Milojic: Time. ) Well, you haven't broken the time, but certainly, here's the thing, since you advertised Article 108, the part that you haven't read – because of the breach of order at the session, the President of the National Assembly can give the measures of caution, taking words or away from the session. Here, I'm going to break the Rules of Procedure one more time and I'm just going to take two minutes away from your MP group in accordance with Article 103. Rules of Procedure, because you misused the right to injure the Rules of Procedure and made a replica. So, two minutes less has your parliamentary group. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26277	Mr. Arsic, here, you've just admitted to breaking the Rules of Procedure yourself. If you're already handing out fines to the opposition, here, I invite you to give yourself a measure of distance now. Have someone else take over from the vice president to chair. It is intolerable that with such a smile someone who is chairing the National Assembly confesses and says: I have broken, behold, I will break again. What's the message? Your message is – you can't do anything to me. You show that you are osions, that you are boastful, and that you think that you will be in power most of the time. That's what these people thought before you. You have admitted to violating the Rules of Procedure, openly, although it is clear to all. You have no right to do that, Mr. Arsic. You have no right. It is a shame to represent the People's Assembly, and to behave like that, to speak plainly, I have broken, so what?- I'm sorry. I broke it, but I'm gonna break it again, so I'm gonna take the opposition two minutes to discuss it again. Here, take an SRS for two minutes. Is that the point? Is that something to make you happy? Is that something that's gonna get your pension back? Is that something that will make life a better life for the citizens? Is the opposition the only problem? Don't ever say it's Rules of Procedure DS, it's yours now. They brought it, it was theirs, and now it's yours, because you've been applying it for five years, because it suits you. If you wanted to, you'd show you're better than DS. You would bring a Rules of Procedure that is democratic, or at least this little right that the MPs have respect for and allow them to use them. You're no better. If it's wrong with Rules of Procedure, change it. Until that moment, he's yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26278	Comrade Sarovic, you ask me to give warning measures to the People's Messengers...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26279	I'm asking you to take your own notice, that's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26280	... To say the measures of taking words and distances from the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26281	That's right. In the event of a major incident, there's an immediate disengagement. This is a serious incident when the President of the Assembly openly admits that he is violating the Rules of Procedure and says again...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26282	And by you, because I didn't tell them those measures, I broke the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26283	No, you didn't tell yourself. You did not give yourself a warning, for it is incomparably worse when the chairman violates the Rules of Procedure, but any messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26284	Keep up the good work, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26285	I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26286	The more you discuss, the more votes the SNS has.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26287	And I ask that the Assembly be declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26288	The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26289	I'm advertising a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Arsic, these days, the public is an eyewitness that things happen in the Assembly that no one else in their right mind. The greatest responsibility for such a condition is borne by those who have a majority, regardless of how it suits whom and who thinks about it. We're not excluded from the opposition either, but the smaller part of us is to blame for this atmosphere. According to Article 107, Mr Arsic, you, as a MP, are currently in the position of the chairman, should treat all MPs with respect. You don't give a damn about Nemo Makrović, literally. Use every opportunity to compromise a member of the SRS. A moment ago, in interpreting whether or not you have injured the Rules of Procedure, you are giving qualifications that Nemanja Sarovic is an DS lawyer. Is there more humiliation than that? There's no greater humiliation. There's no bigger bottom than DS, or maybe the Davers are underneath.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26290	My colleague, you do not violate the Rules of Procedure in clause 107, please, the very one you are referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26291	I'm just explaining what the injury is by you. I ask you to rule out any possibility that, as chairman, you are using the Rules of Procedure and that you treat all MPs equally, and therefore, especially us Serbian radicals, because we are trying to keep the normal atmosphere that the citizens of Serbia deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26292	My fellow MPs, as you proceeded with those violations of the Rules of Procedure, it seems to me that I will become a world recordman. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26293	I'd point to members 104. And 112, Mr. Chairman. Article 104 for what happened a little bit, but I'm telling you right now, I'm not asking you to plead, because I'm satisfied with the reaction. You, for a great reason, have rightly taken two minutes to further debate anyone who has misused the right to advertise this Rules of Procedure. I think we should react even more vigorously to the nuance when there is an abuse that can't be an appeal to the right of Article 104. It was not a right to a replica, and it was not right at all, let alone correct and anything else, that someone should give himself the right to raise the Rules of Procedure, to then replicate, to address directly to another MP's group. There were a dozen examples of such behavior here. To those who yearn to return to the boards of directors and supervisors of Dragan Gilas, I have nothing to say but that it is a completely unrealistic wish for them and it does not need to be dealt with at all. But to use that right, Mr. Chairman, to make strange parallels here, like someone in our place, I think that's where we should react, for example. And by denying someone the opportunity to say what he's up to and nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. The yellow company, and I'm telling you, Mr. Chairman, because I expect you to react to these things, to be in the SNS place, it's impossible, it's known to everyone, whoever's dealing with this topic. He abuses the Rules of Procedure. Why is it impossible? Because it is impossible to find an example that in the SNS someone like this director of the yellow company Sutanovac came into possession of a 1 million-euro property, that he raised his 300,000-euro duplex on it, that he had a savings book at 300,000 euros, all of it from a parliamentary or ministerial salary. It's impossible to make parallels here. Who does that? He consciously abuses this Rules of Procedure. And whoever's saying that nothing's funny, and in doing so, and that's my last line, Mr. Chairman, talking about the election itself, has to realize that he, first of all, is funny. With regard to Article 112, maybe you should take a break, get the hot heads to cool off a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26294	You're right about article 112. The same to you, in accordance with Article 103, two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Now in accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Dear fellow MPs, we move on with our work. The word is held by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, as the proposing's authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26296	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Dear President, dear Members of Parliament, thank you for our opportunity today to discuss the ratification of four very important international agreements. One of these agreements should allow Serbia to get the opportunity to be the headquarters of a very important secretariat, and it is a contract on the transport community of Western Balkan countries. We signed it this summer when the president's meeting was in English, and then we waited, like Serbia, to get that contract in national languages, therefore, in Serbian and all others, so that we could propose that contract to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for adoption. This contract on the Transport Community, I will start with technical details, since there have been a lot of questions as to why today's session and why we are discussing this today. This is very important for the Republic of Serbia, for the citizens of Serbia. So, this contract on the Transport Community of Western Balkan countries, in which one of the countries, central, Serbia, came to the government of the Republic of Serbia on 9 October in the national language, reviewed and addressed to the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for opinions, was adopted at the meeting of the Government of Serbia on 26 October and immediately thereafter sent, with a request, with parliament and MPs and MPs for immediate adoption precisely because of the importance and opportunity to vote Serbia as the seat of the Transport Community Secretariat of the Western Balkan countries at a ministerial meeting on 7 December and the EU. I think it is of great importance, since Serbia's transport policy, one of the main strategic objectives is to connect with the region. Serbia has a leadership position in the region right in the area of infrastructure, transport and energy. For us, it is also a great opportunity to continue this integration much faster than it was done in the previous period. It is a lot of advantage for Serbia, first of all, from having signed a contract on the Transport Community in the first place, without talking about what we will have in place at the Transport Community Secretariat. So, accelerated construction and integration and what is important to us is that we become an inevitable corridor in what is called the integration of the East and the West and become truly inevitable when we talk about construction, not just road traffic, but also railways, to end or to continue with new physical integration projects with other countries, but what is also important, which is to help us, which is to overcome all those not physical barriers that exist between countries, so Serbia and all the countries with which we are bordering, because what affects our competitiveness directly is the fact that often our goods and passengers, but especially the goods, stand at the borders for a very long time. One of the features of this treaty, where we will all, together as Western Balkan countries, coordinate our national legislation, then become one unique region, and as such be part of the EU and systematically develop our transport policy and our transport system, is to overcome all physical and not physical barriers. In addition, of course, the harmonisation of national legislation and the possibility of using many more funds and that all of those projects that we consider strategic projects, which are defined in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are defined by the Corridors, going into their much faster realization. I think it is very important to note that thanks to one of these contracts, where we are not alone, but we are, I repeat once again, the central country of the Western Balkans, we are working to increase the volume of transport of people and goods, to make efforts, and we have clear plans, programmes and for a large part of the prepared project-technical documentation, so let's make sure that these projects are implemented. This means that we extend the transport network, then that we can also see from it in that real life, not just the finished infrastructure, but in those financial and economic indicators, an increase in the incidence of transport in the social gross product. I think it's also very important to say that, in accordance with a contract like this for five years, we're going to make some plans, we're going to work together. We can't talk about infrastructure as one island for one country only. Infrastructure is really a matter of the whole region. If we're without infrastructure, we can't talk about any economic development. It's a very important international agreement. We'll talk about whatever the details are, and that's mostly the basic reason why we're seeing each other today and we're talking about it. In addition, in addition to this international agreement, three other agreements are ahead of you. Each one is important for Serbian citizens and citizens. One is the ratification of a 17m-euro contract with a German bank with KFV. It's water supply in four municipalities, it's Kikinda, Vrbas, Književci and Paracino. The value for Kikindu is six million, for Vrbas 4.1, Književec 3.4, Paracin 3.45m euros. We have already signed contracts with the Ministry of Finance, the KFV Bank and the president of the municipalities and is now ahead of you to discuss it. If we ratify this, in the next year, these four cities will have a water supply issue resolved, somewhere in the sewer. Then, you also have before you a ratification of an international financing contract with the Chinese Exim bank, and it concerns financing the first part of the Belgrade-Budapest track modernisation. It is the first share of Belgrade center – Stara Pazova. Last November, at summit 16+1 in Riga, a commercial contract was signed with a Chinese consortium to work on this part of the railway. In May, in Beijing, when President Vukic was in Beijing, we also signed a financing contract at the time, and since 26 August he has been in parliament by emergency procedure, so that we now have a ratified contract. We'll talk about the details later in the discussion. It is a preferential loan and everything Serbia has in its relations with the People's Republic of China. Serbia, which among other things received the seat, i.e. a traffic and infrastructure centre, is 16+1 countries. So next year we will host here in Belgrade all transport ministers, as well as the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure of the People's Republic of China. The fourth agreement ahead of you is the draft law on confirming the treaty on changes and additions of financial contracts between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. From 2001 to today, 3.1 billion are signed, ratified contracts with the European Investment Bank. All international financial organisations prescribe a very detailed procedure for public procurement. In the case of the European Investment Bank, this looks different for a nuance. They don't have detailed procedures. They have one public procurement guide where there's not all the details. In this regard, neither the public procurement guide is fully applied, nor can our Public Procurement Act be fully applied, more specifically in that part of what are the competencies of the Republic Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers. For that reason, wanting it all to be transparent, so we don't have a situation where someone complains about the tender, and then the Republic Commission can't give its position. This is why we and the European Investment Bank have found a solution where we can fully, by changing the members of the Treaty itself, apply our law, which means that the Republic Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers will be able to react to any kind of, of course, in the second degree, if there is any complaint. There are four international agreements ahead of you. Everyone's important, like everything you do. I want to thank you again for having this conversation today. Everything you have to ask, we're here to answer. I'm sorry that some, I think, haven't quite figured out how important this is, so we have a situation that the biggest problem is why we're here today, and we're going to be here tomorrow, and it's not the point that Serbia is the central country, that it will have the secretariat of the Western Balkan countries, which was not easy to win, believe me. It's a matter of great work, making the president, making himself the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I don't want to talk about municipalities and local self-government, which will finally solve the issues, any sewers, any water supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26297	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26298	Dear fellow MPs, we were able to read in the material that the government delivered to the National Assembly a bill confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the Modernisation and Reconstruction Project of the Hungarian-Serbian Railway Connections in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the centre-Stara Paz's share of Belgrade, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower and the Chinese "Export-Import Bank" as a lender, on 29 August 2017. That was delivered exactly three months ago. The logical question is now being raised – how is it possible for us to get an explanation from the President of Parliament this morning that only yesterday was asked by the President and the Vice-President of the Government to make an emergency appointment within 24 hours and why, if there was a possibility, if the material arrived on August 29, if it is so urgent and so urgent, why has it not been put on the agenda in September of the month and why has it not been discussed these laws and agreements? Why would someone be in a hurry to wait three months? In our thinking, there's a certain timing and there's some cool stuff going on. When it comes to the proposal for a bill confirming the Treaty establishing the Transport Community, which was submitted by the Government on 1 November 2017, the minister was, when she spoke about who were the signatories of the Agreement, perhaps forgot or did not say that, in addition to the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, is also a signator of Montenegro, Serbia and Kosovo, and we will return to the explanation, although in this agreement, or law, it says that Kosovo with a star, this name is without prejudge on status and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244, signed in 1999. I will remind fellow MPs and the public that no Government of the Republic of Serbia, from 5 October to today, has truly and sincerely asked for Resolution 1244 to be applied, because it speaks not only of any star, but also of the Brussels Agreement, which I will prove in the Law itself, says that you recognise, both de facto and de jure the state of Kosovo. Easy, you'll hear, gentlemen, there's no need to throw, it's in your law. Here, you will hear, and you will have the right to reply. He goes on to say, given...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26299	Comrade Damjanović, please proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26300	My colleague throws it at me all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26301	You're a newer MP, but you have to get used to it. That's how it is in Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26302	So it is said – given the desire of each of the Southeast European signatories to make their laws on traffic and related issues compatible with those in the European Union, including future development of legal flows within the Union, then says that this agreement concerns more aspects – social issues, environments, public procurement, infrastructures, etc. This agreement is nothing more than written directives from the EU, although we are not members of the EU. It is interesting that we continue to pass laws in accordance with the European Union, and leaders and representatives of the same European Union, when they see you and talk to you and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, each time they delay Serbia's possible admission to the EU. I remind you that on October 5th, the promise was that Serbia would be admitted to the European Union in 2003. Then it was that we would be admitted in 2006 and then in 2012. The moment you took over power in Serbia in 2012, you said you would bring Serbia into the European Union, because the Democratic Party failed, the longest in one term. The first term lasted two years for you and you have not introduced Serbia into the European Union. Then, the Enlargement Commissioner said that Serbia will join the EU in 2018, in order to hear almost, about a few months ago, that it has been moved to 2020 and, according to the latest statements by EU Enlargement Commissioners, that Serbia's entry or review of the EU in 2025 is possible. When I spoke earlier about the fact that this law reads: "both Kosovo" and Article 14. The Brussels Agreement says that each other, signatories, will not prevent further Eurointegration, which is clear then, because no regions or provinces enter the EU, it is said, means that two states and you are putting the Fourth Protocol before us today, which says -- transitional arrangements between the EU, on the one hand, and Kosovo, on the other. I now ask the next question of the minister – are the citizens of Vojvodina citizens of Serbia? I think so. Are citizens of western Serbia Serbian citizens? I, too, do not think, but respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and say that they are. Are the citizens of Shumadia part of Serbia and Serbian citizens? Of course they are. Are people from eastern Serbia, Zaječar, Negotina, Kladova, citizens of Serbia? Of course they are. You here in Article 2 of these transitional arrangements say in point 1 of paragraph 2. – by the end of the first transitional period, the citizens of Kosovo and the Shipage Company established in Kosovo, have the right to transport passengers etc. Citizens of Kosovo, not citizens of Serbia, AP Kosovo and Metohija, gentlemen of colleagues, not temporary institutions, citizens of Serbia where temporary institutions of Pristina are. This is where the citizens of Kosovo stand. Who are the citizens? Citizens of a particular state. Or in some future laws we will just get that the citizens of Vojvodina, the citizens of the Shumadins, the citizens of Kladovci, the citizens of Zaječarci, the citizens of Bujanovac, perhaps next time, Preseva? You gave us a proposal where you say – citizens of Kosovo and the Brod Company, etc. in Kosovo. There is no Metohija, and in order to become a citizen of a particular state and I am glad that you have finally acknowledged our regrets that you have recognised an independent state of Kosovo by voting and supporting Ramush Haradinaj and transferring all the regulatory states to them, executive, judicial and legislative authority, and we have just spoken from practical examples. This is precisely the truth, unfortunately, because no internal dialogue is needed. That is why you were set up in 2012 to rule Serbia to recognise an independent state of Kosovo. Because in order to be a citizen of Kosovo, you must be a Kosovoer, you must have their ID card, a birth certificate. It is true, gentlemen, that whoever pulled a copy of the birth certificate of Kosovo, which you have admitted, says that Kosovo, not a Serb, not a Turk, not a Bosniak, Muslim, not an Albanian, Shiptar, is a Kosovo writer. You have finally opened our eyes to this law, or to the citizens of Serbia, with the de facto notion that Kosovo is an independent state. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan agreement, for a privileged buyer, for a project of modernisation and reconstruction of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link, which we have already mentioned from the loan from China, a logical question arises - why are such projects not financed from their own resources? You'll say they're gone. Right, but the question is, why is there no such means? What have you done as the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2015, when you formed and paved the way for it to be a stock company, what have you done to fix the situation? What's the real picture on the ground? Now you're modernizing a piece of the railroad, it's like if you say -- we're going to build a house from the roof, and we haven't built a foundation. That's what you're doing right now. And he says -- basic data in society, he says -- is the founder of a Republic of Serbia whose founding rights are exercised by the government and shareholders. The Republic of Serbia is the only shareholder. Why is this so important? It is very important, and Mr. Seselj asked that parliamentary question Tuesday, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, and he did not get an answer, because you gentlemen from the ruling majority were telling us, and today you are talking, the minister where he appears says that the best successful reform is, especially in the part of rationalising the number of employees, as the IMF representatives of the World Bank and others have told you, exactly "the railways of Serbia". What does that mean, what's the best reconstruction done? The public must know that the "Serb Railways" trade unions accepted a year ago, without social unrest, without any major strikes, trusting Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, although we warned them that you could not trust the Progressive Minister, because I have to make an introduction, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic announced in November 2015 by Law on Legalisation, and I quote, in a year from one million and three hundred thousand objects, millions of objects will be resolved. So in December 2016, from 70% to 80% were said in Belgrade, there were three hundred thousand illegal objects at that time. She solved that year for 3,000 or 1% and can't be trusted. The vision "Serb Railway" says -- we expect a modern, safe and market-oriented railway, which means permanent, continuous, quality maintenance and protection of public railway infrastructure, protection of public railway infrastructure. And now, if we look at it, it says, everything is stolen from the needle to the locomotive on the railway. Last year's balance sheet of the property "Train Serbia" is the following: March – 1,600m of the contact network was stolen between Ostruznica and Surcin stations, May – found persons taking off track equipment between Novi Sad and Novi Sad-Lojnica, June – between Vranjska Banja and Ristovica, July – between Sombor and Bukovački salashi stations, August – between Tavankut and Baimok stations, October – at the road crossing, etc. Do you know what it looks like in practice? You don't know, because you only sit in offices and you've never been. You send out workers, then they realize they're members of a national minority and it's said -- we have to let them go, we can't stop them, call the police. The police say we have nothing better to do. Now, speaking of which, why is there no money from the basic funds to be done by these projects and on which scale, if you're talking about "Serb Railways", that the best, on which scale are the workers of "Serb Railways"? I'm going to remind the public, you fellow you're throwing away, because you're deciding on people living on the edge of existence, that last year there are 3,000 people left without a job, that this year there will be 3,000 more people left. That you now have a competition for some eight engineers, and since you don't know exactly what the situation is on the ground and you should be ashamed of yourself, the most you have is a shortage of workers on the ground, three times less than the real systemization plotted. What does that mean? This means that you have abolished that for railway workers, watch out for this, the train cannot be used when it is necessary to go to repair a certain maintenance section and is now going by road transport, and for the whole of Belgrade there is only one vehicle. Only one vehicle to get to a specific section in Belgrade's entire territory by road traffic. You're the one who canceled it. Then, employees don't have free tickets anymore, I don't count the kargo part. So they don't have tickets, even though they've been working here for 20, 30 years, to use "Serbian Railways". Then, in 2015, you announced that you would form a holding infrastructure in train and cargo, and on 10 August in APR made a. d. It is nothing controversial. What's the matter? It is disputed that the implementation of the Law on the Provisional Editing of Bases for the Accounting and Payment of Salaries, i.e. Profits and Other Permanent Receipts of Public Assets, 2014, reduced the basis for the calculation of earnings and 10% of the earnings. In some occupations and more, depending on the type of work and working-time model, i.e. employees on Serbian railways are treated in the same way as employees in public enterprises, the public sector. It's nothing to argue about, either. They've accepted how you did it and it's not disputed. What's the issue now? It is disputed that in a meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Mihajlovic, held on 19 October 2017, representatives of the union were told that the announced latest profit hikes, the finance ministry's plan did not cover railway employees. Why? That's when you treated them like stock companies. So, when they needed to be reduced, the fellow MPs and you ministers, then you treated them like public enterprises. When you passed the regulation to increase salaries in the public sector of indirect and direct users of the budget, you did not increase their salaries, i.e. the basis of earnings. This is not the first time that railways are placed in an unfavourable position, i.e. others and treated twice, and they have requested, trade unions, another meeting that was scheduled to take place today. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic is invited, I hope that we will get an answer whether she responded or will continue to spread the colour lies in the Assembly when she comes, in relation to workers who do not have enough answers and who get fired. They have a big problem facing piled problems on the railways "Serb Railway". I need to remind the public that the railways, I think, are the only ones who haven't been increased for more than five years for a dollar or a percentage. For more than five years, your mouth is full of praise for fulfilling all possible reforms and that it is an excellent public enterprise and that unlike them, the corridors remain unsuccessful. Do you know the department's portfolio you're running? By the entry into force of the law, employees in the railway sector were at the bottom of the profit scale in all public enterprises in Serbia, in all of them, and you further destroyed them by cutting profits, and five years later, where we have a situation where the consumer basket jumped, you only bypassed them in that redistribution. Through the restructuring process, it is expected that by the end of this year, as I have repeated, you will leave another 3,000 workers out of work. If you left 3,000 workers last year and 3,000 of these, by which mathematical logic, economic logic, they couldn't get more money. As evidence, I would like to get an answer, if our information is correct, the land where "Belgrade on Water" is built is mostly the land belonging to the Serbian Railways. We are interested in, as the re-purpose has been done, whether this stock company has received financial resources depending on the amount of land you have acquired in order to build your project, the development project of Belgrade City? If not, why not, if we know that the practice was to obliterate a public company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26303	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26304	There were a few questions and a few insinuations that I don't think are correct and it's my duty to explain them. We will start first of the contract on the Western Balkan countries' Transport Community. The first question of Kosovo and the signatories of the contract, so that Serbian citizens do not think differently from what is really in the paper and what is, a few things. First, Kosovo as the signator of the founding contract is, but exactly as it is in accordance with Resolution 1244, so, according to all the procedures that are already, and in a way, as already said and well written to you even in Article 2, it does not represent any recognition of Kosovo by the EU as an unofficial state. The Treaty establishing the Transport Community of Kosovo is marked in the same way as in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which the EU and Eurostat concluded with it, which is in line with the agreement on regional representation and co-operation reached by the Belgrade and Pristina dialogue, as Kosovo with the star, with the accompanying footnote that reads: - this name is without prejudge of status and in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and the International Court's opinion, etc. Article 2 of the Protocol, which you mentioned, is immediately known, the protocols are there because they give certain transitional times to countries to harmonise their legislation in two phases with EU legislation, and in that Article 2, which you have presented as if Serbia had accepted some recognition of Kosovo, which is not true, it is also very clear, the star and the whole text that I have just said once. So that's the first thing that's not true. So neither Serbia has accepted de facto and de jure, Kosovo's independence, nor Serbia has accepted Kosovo's independence in any way, either by means of a contract on the Western Balkan Transport Community, nor will it. Furthermore, what you have also said here, you are wondering why this contract means only harmonising our legislation. Let me remind you, and that these are just prescribed EU directives, to remind you, if you didn't know that, Serbia is a candidate for membership, or Serbia wants to be an EU member, and that is our way. Therefore, it is logical and everything we do in the previous period, and of the law everything we adopt in this Parliament is laws that are in line with EU directives. Why, perhaps you're not in the right way at all, maybe I didn't explain it well, and I apologize, why do we need this contract on the transport community, why do we want to have a transport community of Western Balkan countries? Because we will be able to connect much faster and much better in any way, therefore economically, infrastructureably with the Western Balkan countries, because it is good for us to have a single market, it is much better for us all to have a single market with all other countries, because this means the possibility of further economic recovery and further work. You also asked around the citizens of Vojvodina, eastern Serbia, west, you counted it well, and I ask you, do you think the citizens of Vojvodina deserve even more roads, even more tracks? Do citizens of western Serbia deserve even more roads, even more railways? Do the citizens of eastern Serbia deserve the same? I think they deserve and the government of the Republic of Serbia thinks they deserve and that's why we're doing all this. Furthermore, you also asked an interesting question at the beginning of the contract with the Exi Bank, a financing contract for the first part of the Belgrade-Budapest railway modernisation. We are proud, not only of that contract, but of our cooperation with the People's Republic of China. It's not clear to me if you have a problem, or if you don't understand the funding agreement yourself, so let's talk about these details, or if you're not doing it today and tomorrow, so that's the biggest problem why you got that contract today. I didn't get that very well, but I'm sure you'll answer me. As for the Serbian Railways, I am proud of every worker and worker of the Serbian Railways. After two decades, perhaps more than three decades, Serbia's railways slowly, step by step, started not only to recover, but to move towards modernization and development. The fact that there was no chaos and problems in the Railways of Serbia last year, as you say, because 90% of the people applied, among other things, voluntarily to get out of the Railways, I understand. You're used to working in chaos, you like it, so that's the essence of the work of the SRS, so the bigger chaos, no problem. But what is a fact, and related to Serbia's railways, is the following, Serbia's railways today have the value of infrastructure, so the value of investment is six billion euros. It's new railways, it's new infrastructure, it's new trains. For the last four years you have, say, a Russian loan, a dinar one wasn't agreed three o'clock a year ago, a dinar one wasn't spent. Today 870 million Russian loans were agreed, nearly 450 million were spent. It is the merit of this government and the workers of the Railways, and in every company, in infrastructure, Serbia, as well as in Karg. The railroads look different today. So, the story of someone leaving without a job, just to remind you, 3,200 people did leave the railroad, 92% volunteered. Of the 3,200 people, there were 12 complaints. Eight people were returned to work. Also, I want to inform you that there were debts in the railways of Serbia when we started dealing in the right system way with the Railway, and not the way everyone talked and didn't deal with the Railways, so we came into a situation where three years ago we said that the whole network has an average speed of 30 to 35 kilometers an hour. You now have a share, as much as you could have done in the last three years, where the average speed is 110 to 120 kilometers per hour, 20 and 37 new trains, too. So, among other things, we solved the question of the historic debts of the Railways that no one wanted to settle. I think it's very important, because you can't expect the company to keep working and working if it doesn't work. So for the first time, the list was made in the Railways, so for the first time in 15 years, the Serbian Railways made a list of their assets. Can you believe that for 15 years there has never been a list done and there is no telling what the Serbian Railways have. This resulted in a surplus of 16 million bookkeeping dinars. We're going to see now, we're going to give these assets to sell as much market value as they are. This will serve the Railways to pay their debts or certain expenses further. Therefore, Serbia's railways are on track, far from being finished. It is necessary that the entire Corridor 10 is modernised, it is necessary that those other regional railways also get, simply to be all electrified, because we have a situation that one part is not electrified and that's why we're going to work on Nis-Dimitrovgrad, and that's why we're going to be doing a bypass around Nis, and that's why we're signing an electrification contract. So I'd just like, if possible, to talk about the facts of anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26305	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Nemanja Sarovic: I answered first. Don't pretend... And you were the first to answer? Comrade Sarovic, you said something, not to pretend, what... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26306	Don't pretend it is. You're finished, Mr. Arsic, I suppose you're wise enough. Mr. Arsic, you have violated several members, you have violated Article 27, and an article 107 has been broken, which says the speaker at the session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and is not allowed to use offensive terms, which is exactly what the Minister of State has done. You, Mr. Arsic, have been obliged to teach her how she is obliged to behave in this National Assembly, or we will deny her hospitality.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26307	What did she do, tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26308	Here, I'll explain, be patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26309	Explain, finally.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26310	The problem is, Mr. Arsic, among other things, that you didn't listen to what the minister was saying, or, as your colleagues say, you didn't understand. Mrs. Mihajlovic said that we from the Serbian Radical Party, that it is our custom to create chaos and work in chaos. You, as a former radical, should know that's not true. And her boss, as a former radical, according to whom she shows enormous loyalty, as she has always shown towards Labus and Mladjan Dinkic, is also someone who was once a radical. You have no right, as Minister, to come here to teach someone a lesson, and especially you personally cannot teach a lesson in good behavior. Learn where you came from. Pay your respects. Miljan Damjanovic, when he spoke, did not take advantage of a single offensive word for you, although he could say a lot, but he respected the institution he was in. And you have a duty to respect her. You, Mr. Arsic, don't talk to the minister now, but listen to me while I point you to an injury. Mr. Aric, you can't chat with the minister while I'm talking and explaining. Of course after that, you don't know what I said... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26311	I heard Mrs. Mihajlovic say that, I'll quote – you from the SRS love the most when it's chaos, not what you're quoting. Nemanja Sarovic: Is that offensive to you? I don't know if it's commendable or offensive to a political party that's in opposition. Nemanja Sarovic: You don't know? Well, you know what, I loved it, when I was an opposition, that the government was making such a mess, because we'd better beat it. Nemanja Sarovic: It is not a question of what you love, but of what is decent and what is not, what is offensive and what is not. Well, it's not offensive if she said that you like it the most when the government makes chaos. Nemanja Sarovic: That's not offensive? What is offensive to you? (The People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, throws out of town. What? And that's what you heard. What kind of behavior is that? How can you not be ashamed? You all need to line up in front of Zoran. We don't have to. ( ) Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? Are you looking for a word again? No, it'll just be... Nemanja Sarovic: I want to plead. So you won't? Nemanja Sarovic: I want to plead. Do you want him to plead? All right, the National Assembly will come out. Now, let's see, who else is going to do the Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go. I was the first to answer. ) Radeta colleagues, you are Vice President, come and see the monitor, whether your name and last name are in the monitor. Well, I know what you're doing, just because I'm sitting here. Here, not yet. In this way, Djordje Vukadinović, Miljan Damjanović, Zoran Zivkovic, Nemanja Sarovic again and the last Vjerica Radeta, and before that the word was received... When did I raise the Rules of Procedure? You can wave all you want, I can see from what's on the monitor. Ask for a word again, colleague Đurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26312	I think this session is the real face of the SNS government, who doesn't want the Assembly to work in a normal way and deal with those issues that matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26313	A member of the Rules of Procedure, please, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26314	The member of the Rules of Procedure is 27, that the chairman runs the session...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26315	He was just a minute, my colleague Đurisic. You'll have to find someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26316	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26317	A colleague of Sarovic's is...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26318	Article 103, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26319	And now it's 103? We'll bid now. Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26320	Article 103, report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. When the MP reports and points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the chairman is obliged to immediately give him the right to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The only people who have the advantage are the presidents of the parliamentary groups. You have not spoken out, or have not done as the Rules of Procedure has said. So you gave me your word, even though they were looking for other injuries to the Rules of Procedure. This is where you want to make a mess. You've been making a mess all day, because it's your intention to avoid those topics that we think you should talk about. You lie and deceive the public, both you and the President of Parliament and the Minister, constantly stating how you want us to work, and we won't do it. No, we want to work, in the way that the Rules of Procedure provides, to talk about the topics that we consider important to the citizens of Serbia. We have a right to do so, and you're denying us the right to do so. We will fight for it here, both today and every time, as this Rules of Procedure allows. So, I ask you to respect every MP equally, to give your word in the way that the Rules of Procedure predicted, to be concentrated. I know it's not easy, I know, I see you're on your own, you don't have the support of other fellow vice presidents, but that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26321	I didn't quite understand your violation of the Rules of Procedure. As anyone asked, I gave, who is the head of the Parliament Club, my word. What's so funny? It doesn't matter to me in what order you'll get a word in, if you insist. In my opinion, the head of the Parliament Club and the deputy chief, if the boss isn't here, is completely even. Let me tell you something, as far as you subjects in the National Assembly are concerned, you will be able to conduct a discussion on those topics that you consider interesting for the political life of Serbia, you can do so in the political stands organised by your party. You know for a fact that the National Assembly can only work on points that are on the agenda. Well, please make it a right, to which you insisted while you were in power, to now apply even when you are MPs who support the former regime. There you go. Nothing else. Now, Comrade Radeta, are you sure you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26322	Arsic, obviously you can't concentrate because Zorana Mihajlovic dictates how you work at the session today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26323	My colleague Arsic, Mr Arsic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26324	No, it's Arsic. I'm talking to Article 116 and I'm talking the way I want to. Do you need to write me a synopsis to address the National Assembly? You should not have allowed such an address to Zorana Mihajlović to the National Assembly and the People's MP. You have to make sure that you stand still in front of her, that's your business. It's not our idea to act like one. We respect the National Assembly and act in harmony with the Rules of Procedure. The fact that Zorana Mihajlovic fights you individually and against your entire government every day, etc., even the president, is your business. You handle it with her or possibly with Scott who wouldn't let you throw her out of the government, even though many would like to do it. That's what you say in public, that's what you say in public, and that's what you say in public. So it's no secret. But, I repeat, it is your problem, and in the National Assembly of Zorana Mihajlovic must behave like everyone present, which is regulated by Article 116, Veroljub Arsic, and be sure to be so today during the day. Ask someone to distract you from these of yours to tell Zorana Mihajlović that makeup at the session of the Assembly is not allowed. Yeah, yeah. I don't know what you're laughing at. Who told you you could take out the powder and fix the makeup in the session? Do you think that's normal? You think you're acting normal? This is the National Assembly, this is neither Labus's office nor the Wolf's office and look here to behave the way any MP and anyone present here has to behave. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26325	Indeed, my colleague, Ms. Radet, I didn't understand your violation of the Rules of Procedure, because your advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, there really is no place in what you said in the events that were now here in the Assembly. (The Verse of Radeta: Make your statement on Vote Day.) Do you want to? Of course, we'll get to the voter's Day, no problem. Anyone else want to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Replica, Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26326	In my 20-minute address, I didn't mention anything about what Mrs. Mihajlovic was talking about. I didn't say Serbia doesn't need good railways, I was talking about what it says. Now because of the public, I ask the camera or let the journalists read Article 2 on page 119, for the purposes of this contract, c) says: "None of the terms, words and definitions are used unless they are used in this contract, including annexes and protocol, are the recognition of Kosovo by the EU." There is no star and I have not said for a moment that it has recognised the EU, but Serbia. Article 2 also of Protocol 4, on page 198, when I was talking about eastern, western and central Serbia, I wasn't talking about railways, I was talking about who Serbian citizens were. Here it says "Citizens of Kosovo", I am not making up, "Citizens of Kosovo and ship's company founded in Kosovo". A nice citizen of a country, a citizen of a country, is said to be a citizen. It says "Citizens of Kosovo" and don't deceive the public. When I spoke of the railways themselves, you brought another lie here again, you said I was against this treaty with the People's Republic of China. No, I asked the question – why isn't it financed from fixed assets? Knowing your answer that there is no, I listed why there is no funds in "Serb Railways" and I presented the true data on the ground that the workers of "Serb Railway" are facing, and you know it well because they told you that on October 19th at a union meeting and invited you to be today, you didn't show up. Fifteen minutes of insulting me, saying I wasn't telling the truth, I was just reading what it says here, and all the MPs have it in front of them. I haven't insinuated a single word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26327	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26328	I'm just asking that you don't deceive the public. Here, now I'm asking for a second look and a nice look at what's written here and a nice view here of article 1, and then there's a star right here that explains exactly every time we have a situation like this, every time we have this star and it's very clearly explained. Whether it's printed to you or not, believe me, I'm sorry if it isn't, I really don't know, but please, the transport contract is... (Miljan Damjanovic: I can give you the bill. There he is. You can, here you go. Does she have a star? So, the bill passed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, that's this. You know, because of the citizens of Serbia, I'm talking to them first. So neither Serbia has recognised Kosovo nor will admit it, and that is clear to all from the policy led by the president of the country. Article 2 or any member of this contract is very clear, therefore, and each time there is a star according to the agreement and Resolution 1244. That's what it's all about. (Miljan Damjanovic: Protocol 4.) Protocol 4, let me finish. As for Chinese loan funds under preferential conditions, with a low interest rate, that's a very large asset. Just for the first section we're talking about, it's $350.1 million. So the second part where we're talking about a financing contract is $582 million, Russian loan is the second share. The third share from Novi Sad to Saturday and up to the border is something we're talking about and it's almost near a billion dollars. So that's a huge asset. "Serbian Railways" never, but never had their own funds to invest in such large, huge investments. "Serbian railways" have always been subsidized before and today and will likely continue, not only here, but also in other countries of Europe. Therefore, if we talk about an explanation why there is no explanation, that you know that there is no reason for it, not because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not doing something right. Also, I only stayed in your debt because you rebelled and said that "Serb Railways," says an act you looked at, there is only one shareholder. I didn't understand either. I ask – should we sell "The Railways of Serbia" so that there are more shareholders or is it normal for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia to own it? I think it's normal. I think "Serbian Railways" still need to develop and bring income, not just subsidies. When you spoke of employees, you also mentioned engineers who are employed. That's not all. A hundred engineers were employed last year in "The Railways of Serbia", so a hundred people got a job. So far from the fact that the Serbian government has no clear plan and does not do everything to just train the "Serb Railways" and not use the "Serbian Railways" and the "Serbian Railways" trade unions to talk about how something is wrong. We work together. Five unions operate in "The Railways of Serbia". Every decision we made together, the directors, the unions, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Traffic. We never brought anything without talking. It never happened that anyone asked for a meeting without having that meeting. So these are facts and there is, of course, a record of something. Also, in the end, if I offended you, I apologize, here, I was wrong. You've certainly never made a mess, the SRS never made a mess, never the president of that party pulled out a gun, never happened... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26329	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26330	Since this was the second reporting by Zoran Mihajlovic, the same member again. Mr. Arsic, you really don't care about how the guests present at the session behave in relation to the MPs. As for us from the SRS, we're not ashamed of any of the moves we've made since the party was born to this day. We're not ashamed of any of our president's moves. The fact that Zorana Mihajlovic has an identity problem, which she doesn't know whether her Labus and Dinkic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26331	You've crossed the line, my colleague, Radeta, on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26332	No, I explain, I explain... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26333	I understand, there's no need anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26334	I'm explaining how you violated article 116. (Miljan Damjanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26335	In accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue today's work. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members of the People as long as you are, Madam Vice President, it is my great pleasure to speak of these four agreements. I'm talking to the citizens of Serbia right now. These agreements are precisely meant for Serbian citizens to be better, to have a better connection with the countries of the region to be less at the borders, to wait less at the borders, to have better water supply, to have a better sewerage, yes, so what will mean better to them tomorrow. It is the task of the National Assembly to pass laws and agreements to make citizens much better. Citizens don't have any political arguments, have and watch what they live on. Exactly, the SDPS parliamentary group will vote with special satisfaction on these agreements. The first agreement, it's the South East European Transport Community. Why is she good for us? What does she bring us? It brings us a link to the region, with our region called Southeast Europe. By reading this law, I couldn't understand two terms. One term is Southeast Europe, the second term is the Western Balkans. I'd like an answer to that question. Reading a lot of material, I realized that those two terms don't always mean the same thing. Well, I'd like someone to give me an explanation. This is about the countries we talked about. Therefore, right away, I have no dilemma of Kosovo with a star implies that it is in accordance with Resolution 1244, and this is nowhere to say that we have recognised Kosovo with any element. So I wouldn't spread that story. She's not in the first place right now. The first plan is to talk about how to improve co-operation with our neighbouring countries. Don't forget that we export the most to these countries. It is very important and important that our goods do not stand at the borders. It is very important and important that we have good roads, that we can easily and quickly reach Sarajevo, to Podgorica, to all of these places, to Skopje and smaller places, because we export goods there. We have the biggest exports here and our goods right next door have a good price. Therefore, dear citizens of Serbia, we must and should accept this transport agreement for the simple reason that this will mean a better and better life for us. One more thing, here when we do, we do the other thing we do our laws to the legal fluids of Europe. It means everything we do, so we work to become part of the European Union tomorrow. In the National Assembly, I must reiterate, other issues often go public, that the strategic goal of the Serbian state is to join the EU and is to be an EU member. I have to stress it all the time because I feel like there's a lot of people in the public going through these things that we don't want to do. We finally got the first date, or one of the dates where this road to the EU is already visible and visible, which is in 2025, could be earlier. I know that our country is ready for us to have such a administration that can do all technical and professional work and end the negotiation process and accept obligations to be an EU member. The Social Democratic Party has always stood for it. It will remain consistent, we will insist that we join the EU as quickly as possible, as best as possible. Not because of the EU, but because of us, because we will introduce standards that will mean a better life for us, better standards that we have, and that will mean that we will be part of a great European community. In this regard, when we become and when we form this Transport Community, we will be ready to offer projects, to get funds from the European Community, the IPA funds will be more open to us and finally be what we seek. We are looking for a country that will be joined by the EU, part of the EU, which will have completed highways, which will have good railways. That's exactly what I'm up to next time, which means we fully support the signing of the Treaty with the Chinese Bank for the 34km railway line from Belgrade to Old Paz. It'll be a fast track. We also know that from Old Paz to New Now we have Russian credit, that there are work in progress and someone who lives in Novi Sad is waiting for that day. I am confident, and I would like the Minister of Transport to confirm that in this mandate, and I believe that our mandate will be by 2020, I will be driving on a fast track and I will no longer have to drive a car from Novi Sad to Belgrade. I will be proud and I will be one of the first passengers on that fast track, i.e. it is part of the railway from Belgrade to Budapest, which means further integration and that means what is very important to us. The third issue that is also important here is that the headquarters of the Permanent Secretariat will be in Belgrade. It is a great recognition for Serbia. So, Serbia, which is the central part of the Western Balkans, for Serbia where the Transport Community will have its seat and of course it will mean that we will have far greater influence in it than we have so far. When I talk about the railroad, I have to say the next thing. You know what they used to be, and you're sitting on the train now, you'll see even though it goes a little longer than the bus goes, let's get to Novi Sad, you have a cultural opportunity to sit down, read and drive nicely to Novi Sad. What is the interest of Serbian citizens? Well, that they have good transport, that they have European railways. That's why we're fighting and we're sitting here as MPs here in parliament to make it possible for them to live better and better. If you have read more carefully, here in this agreement it is said that environmental protection, the fight against climate change will be taken into account. In addition, what is our basic objective, which is that we are actively involved in achieving the objectives of sustainable development. I should not stress that in 2015, the UN has set the goals of sustainable development, where these issues have just been introduced and incorporated. This is what Serbia advocates, and this parliament, along with its focus, will insist that every law that is being passed is said to achieve the goals of sustainable development. This is what is currently putting Serbia in the ten countries that show exceptional interest in the goals of sustainable development. There are also loans that we were talking about, which are water-supply loans, then water-processing, water-processing plants, sewers and so on. It's about four municipalities. The people of Kickinda are very interested in whether they will drink good quality water. And that's one of the goals of sustainable development. Quality water. Now, that's where the loans come in, and, let's take Kikind to get six million from the Frankfurt Bank in Maine with interest which is 1.1% a year and be careful, out of those six million 70% is a loan, and 30% is a donation. Remember 30% of the donation. So, out of six million 1.8m euros, it's a donation. Our borrowing will not be paid by the state of Serbia. These six million will be paid by Kickinda, the citizens of kickinda who will get better quality and good water, because they will be paying off some of the funds in the budget. The same is true of the citizens of Vrbasa with 4.7m euros, Paracin for 3.45m euros and Književec for 3.45m euros. So we're taking loans to make better and better water, better and better sewers, and to do what hasn't been done in some earlier time. In 2017, where we are now, with these loans that have a significant grace period, we will be in a position to create a better, better quality life and exactly, that is what motivates the SDPS parliamentary club to vote for all these four agreements and to ratify these four agreements. That's all because it means better, better quality life for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26338	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26339	Thank you for accepting, or voting for these four international agreements. The Treaty on the Transport Community of Southeast Europe, I agree, is what we also called the Treaty on the Energy of the Southeast European Countries. At the moment that somehow Croatia joined the EU and when there was more talk at meetings at all about the Western Balkans, it remained in the jargon for the term, but the essential contract, of course, is Southeast Europe. But what is very important for us to speed up integration and every kind of integration and every project of integration with the countries of the region means more investment for Serbia and for Serbia means more jobs. I think it is very important to say that what is the goal, not only of Europe, but also of our goal is to increase transport by rail. Seventy-five percent of road traffic in cargo or passenger transport structure, 15% somewhere is rail traffic. The goal is for the next 10 years to be up to 25%, and in order to be able to do that, of course, it is necessary to modernize and reconstruct railway lines. This is what people in Serbia see and know and know what we have done and what has not yet been done, but it is equally important that we try to avoid, or solve, the issue of many barriers at the borders and that of our trains for several hours. So, let's say, with Hungary's new agreement on rail transport, with Bulgaria and Romania we're trying to negotiate, with Macedonia there will be one common border crossing of Presevo-Tabanovci, with Bosnia and Herzegovina it will be on the completed LJubovija-Bratunac bridge with Montenegro, we also try to make an agreement, because when we have one place where everything will be practically done from customs to all the other checks, then that certainly means speeding up transport. That's our interest. The issue of this contract, indeed from Serbia's position, I would say that this is as important to us as all the major strategic decisions we have made in the previous period, as regards infrastructure. A small note related to the KfW program. When we talk about funding 30% goes from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and 70% is from local self-government. Many things have already been done in the previous period under this programme, so several programmes have their name, one, two, three, etc., by various local self-governments, and I think that in fact, the best witness and speak for themselves by the presidents of municipalities and citizens in these local self-governments where indeed the biggest problem remains the problem in Serbia and the unresolved issue of water supply and sewerage. And thank you for your comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26340	Thank you. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87 of Article 2 and Article 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26341	There is no doubt that this agreement, which is also the first item of the agenda, is necessary and there is no doubt there. I like the strangeness of the agenda to come up with something that makes sense and there's not much you can blame. I think this is a good example. Of course, there's always but, and what is – but? But this is once again a rape of parliamentaryism, the way this session is scheduled. I see that at the beginning of today's session it was small, I will not say war, but competition between the President of Parliament and the Prime Minister present who is to blame, whether the Government or Parliament, one or the other, is unforgivable. There is no reason, even when you have good legal proposals, to put yourself in a position to shorten the possibility of us who want to give you extras on the agenda. I know it's painful and difficult for you, because there's a lot of hearing in these supplements of the agenda, which is rarely heard in Serbia, because of the blocked media, but bear it once in seven days or 15 days when there's already a session. It's power. The government must sometimes show its own democracy, by noting something that is painful for her, but it is still part of parliamentaryism. We have at that first point of the agenda, a dilemma has been opened, and this is a question of Kosovo's status in this agreement and not only in this agreement. We have heard various definitions of what it means, whether Kosovo here is recognised as independent or not, whether Serbia, or the government, has recognised Kosovo silently as an independent state. To help you remember, I don't think some colleagues remember that. Here it writes nicely as quoted that this name for Kosovo is without prejudice to the status in accordance with Resolution 1244, the Security Council and those nations of 1999 and the International Court of Justice's opinion on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence. The International Court of Justice's opinion on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence said that -- Resolution 1244 was not an obstacle to Kosovo declaring its independence, to bring the declaration. This means that this contract, too, I hope here that there is a good lawyer, the best in the world or at least in college, so that no matter what political options, means the International Court of Justice in June 2010, at the request of Serbia, which is precisely the opinion that the declaration of Kosovo's independence is not contrary to Resolution 1244 of the Security Council. Therefore, every mention of Kosovo with a star, no stars, quoters, pimps, I don't know what a de facto is yet not de chasing, but de facto recognition of Kosovo. I know it hurts you, and I know that a good part of you is a shame about it, but we still have to respect what's form. The situation on the railways is an interesting thing when it comes to this agreement on the Transport Community. First, I heard great praises about it being the first time in my life a miracle, never more, better than in Tito's time. Let me remind you that almost all of these countries, to exclude Albania, were part of a country called Yugoslavia and that it is perfectly natural whether there are traffic connections between these two countries that are no longer in this agreement and Slovenia and Croatia, but also Bosnia and Macedonia, as well as Montenegro, and of course Serbia. Therefore, we have not now taken some historic and civilizational step because we have a railway that connects us to Skopje or Pristina or Sarajevo, but it is a normal thing and it exists 100 years ago. Let me remind you, those who don't remember because they weren't born yet. The first track in Serbia was Belgrade-Nish, if I remember correctly, in 1884, a June month somewhere and then the train went, not the first one to go, because it stood from every station to every station to the Duke waving from that train or then the King, but when he entered regular traffic, that train went five and a half hours, Belgrade-Nish. Today it's five hours and 27 minutes, which is a three-minute civilization progress, while Nis has not moved south or Belgrade has moved to any side. Therefore, it is the state of our railroad. We who have about 50 and a few years remember that we could travel Belgrade-Nish in three and twenty, three and a half hours. So...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26342	Comrade Zivkovic, you've gone astray. It is about modernising the Belgrade railway centre – Stara Pazova, which is in the other direction. You'd go to Skopje.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26343	You don't understand, but you don't have to. I know what I'm talking about. Serbian citizens know what I'm talking about, and you're doing your job as you think you should. So it's nice to get into that connection, traffic, with everyone around us, whether it's the Western Balkans or Southeast Europe, but it's not good to tell stories, which are absolutely not true. We've got credits. The other three, four points are the question of credit, so I found it interesting to show the citizens of Serbia, and to you colleagues how much Serbia owes today. This reads two billion eighty-six hundred three billion two hundred thirty-five hundred fifty thousand eighty dinars. That was from the day before yesterday. The day before yesterday, it was official, so we don't salt every day. Let me tell you, who prefers it is about 24 billion euros, and 24 billion euros is 70 million average salaries in Serbia. And if we divide that by the number of employees, even by the statistics you're running today, that means that for two and a half years all employees in Serbia have to pay their full salary to pay back this debt. So, two and a half years, 30 months, no one gets paid, and then we can pay back the debt. Of course, there's a fairy tale about how big a debt has been taken over, and I remind you, the minister knows, since she was then doing the same thing in the administration, that Serbia's debt, say, in 2003 or 2004, by the work of a good government that existed, was then a public debt below 10 billion. So it's almost two and a half times bigger today. Question – why are loans taken today? Well, among other things, we have a loan for five municipalities that need to make water and sewers, and that's still a step ahead of everyone. Imagine, it's only the 21st century, and we're going to kick ass in kickinda, and I don't know what other places are around here, so I know, Paracino and somewhere else, to build a water line. It's a miracle unseen! And on credit! A 17m-euro loan, if I recall correctly. Only for this circus that we see every day in Belgrade, which is called the New Year's Eve, and which has been going on for two months in constant spending of money, only this circus, which public debt, or costs, which are hidden, is close to five million. That means the two Kickinds could get an absolutely arranged state around the water and sewers. So that's what I'm saying to show what the priorities of this government are. Not to end the water lines where they're not there, and they're not in Belgrade everywhere, but let's do a little colorful, so some confetti, so a little star, so they'll sing some singers, probably in the squares, and that's perfect, it's not bread and games. There is one older one, not older than this one, since this is Latin, but an old Serbian proverb says – all colorful and foolishly beautiful. I don't think that should be the cornerstone of a policy that will be led by any Serbian government, one or another, and I hope these before haven't made a big problem with it. We have in the area of traffic, not to talk about the debts of "Er Serbia" and this failed project, which is being solved by transferring the surplus workers from "Er Serbia" to the coat of arms of the taxpayers of Serbia, through the Belgrade airport, but by seeing why people do not want to be engineers. Why do we miss people in both the cargo and the trains? Why won't people be engineers? As I recall, seven, eight years ago, we had four times as many engineers as a locomotive. Today we have a shortage. Why? Because the wages in those places are shamelessly low compared to what these people have as their own responsibility. We have, for that reason, these people who are deeper in matter certainly know, in the last two or three years of reduced traffic. Not just because we have bad trains and bad railroads, but generally there's no traffic. Who's coming to see us? Why are we being visited? Why should those who are supposed to transport their goods from Europe to Asia, why are they visiting Serbia when it is in such great development? I can tell you a few of my thoughts about why it's happening. Let's say, I'm sure they expect the Belgrade-Solun waterway to begin from that great Chinese-Serbian arrangement where we combine the Danube and Aegean plums, where we connect impossible with the impossible. That's as much as I've heard today's active project. I'd like the minister to give me an answer whether it's true that this project is a dream from how many years ago, whether by changing the president of the party and the state has changed or if we've stayed in those dreams and today. We had an opening a year ago with the famfares, with a sigh, with no idea what wasn't, for the first time, of course, better than Tito, all that, the railway station Prokop. Did any of you colleagues ride the train from Prokop? Is there anyone, unless he went there to make sure that there's one five train departures a day, that it's harder to take off the cobwebs at that station, since there's nothing going on, but to manage traffic? It's open, like a miracle unseen. The 20th century, almost a metro, was almost planned to go to Mars, first in the world. What's up with that? Why is there no Prokop? Why do we still have a train station downtown? We know why, because there's no minimum infrastructure that Prokop could go all the way through rail traffic. It was also a big party. We have a river traffic, that's what I'm asking you again, Belgrade -- Thessaloniki, will the train depart from Thessaloniki's port to Budapest sooner or will the boat leave Belgrade to Thessaloniki's port? I think that the citizens of Serbia, now a new year ago, are torn apart by this dilemma whether next year or next century or the next millennium when that happens, they go by boat to Thessaloniki first or by train to Thessaloniki. We have the case of LJig – Prelina, new technological process, integration of clay into asphalt. That, of course, isn't just there. That's where I congratulate the minister, who dared point out, that crime, that threatens lives, that threatens lives, and directly a few people have already died there because of poor signalling. For bad signalling, let me tell you, it's the wrong state, not some workers who got reproof, 20% of the pay, or I don't know what less, but you know who's in charge of setting up a signal and you know who's in charge of control, and there's no doubt about it, and we're not being naive about it, that we don't know that. But that's not the only example. We had those mushrooms, or those holes that applied two years ago, when then the Prime Minister opened up a section of the road through the Siscevac gorge, it was the same joy, it was the same...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26344	Comrade Zivkovic, I must warn you to return to the debate on the agenda. You've made rail transport air and sea and river, and yet it's only about rail transport, goods and passengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26345	Ask for a word again. And give me my time back. You don't have to agree with what I'm saying. You don't have to understand what I'm saying, but you can't interrupt me when I'm talking about something that's absolutely a subject. So transport is rail, plus roads, plus river traffic, plus sea traffic, who has seas, just without air traffic. As far as I'm concerned. Did I get the minister right? Tell your colleague Arsic he can continue to follow the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26346	My colleague Mihajlovic cannot tell me what the agenda theme is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26347	She's the one who's proposing the agenda. So, I think you and I will agree that road traffic is part of this agreement. It's not? Read better bill proposals. So it is. We have this same high expectation that everything is going to be phenomenal, except not all possible paths are being opened. Is anyone going down those roads? Personally, I am a witness, and I can bring you many more witnesses, in Serbia today you have thousands of miles of track in the right lane on the highways. Try driving on your own. Look when it rains a little bit, you have lakes in the right lane. It's absolutely unacceptable to allow in traffic. You have the same thing in front of every traffic light in Serbia. They're waves, so do you want to go vertically or horizontally, administratively or cross-sectionally towards traffic. These are things that need to be resolved so that our necessary signing of the agreement should be effective. Therefore, I will vote, and I hope to convince my colleagues, for the transport agreement, but we cannot vote for these borrowings that are completely pointless, that solve nothing and for which it is an open question of where all this leads us. Finally, since that's your jurisdiction, and I've asked you a few times, so I'm asking you today for illegal construction in Nebojsa's 8a there are solutions to the destruction, an object that is being built today. You gave me the answer that all the documents about what I presented are accurate and that an execution is expected. Let me tell you that this continues, and the performers, or investors, boast that they have it because they have the support of these new ones. You're new after five years. I invite you to apply the law in that case. The proposal for a transport law will be supported by us and we will vote against other points of the agenda. I'd like to ask my colleague Arsic to tell me how much time I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26348	You have three minutes and 28 seconds left. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and as authorized. First of all, after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 106 and Article 107 were injured. He was obliged to stick to the agenda and respect the dignity of the National Assembly. A harsh lie about Kosovo's independence was told here, and this came from members of the former regime's party, whose leaders, and according to the WikiLeaks, asked the United States that Albanians do not declare independence before Boris Tadic is elected president, not to adopt the declaration. Today something done by the former regime's party and making the position of the Serbian state more difficult has been attempted here by someone to approach us. The question to the international court of justice was not whether Albanians had the right to declare secession to Pristina but whether they had the right to bring the declaration. The issue was commissioned in agreement with the United States to participate in the construction, which was done by the former regime's party, on whose list he was elected several times. So they commissioned the issue in agreement with the United States to get the answer they received and thus participated in building a wild state of Kosovo and Metohija and today those who are trying to prevent it, to prevent international recognition, to prevent membership in the UN. So, today someone is taking out their stains and they're trying to attribute their sin to us, which I think is a violation of dignity and that you were obliged to warn the previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26350	Thank you. I have tried many times to influence my colleague Zoran Zivkovic, but I have failed. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Igor Bečić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26351	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting under Articles 103 and 104. You have allowed false excuses to be made here several times and a member of the former regime or members of the former regime, who destroyed everything they could destroy in the municipalities in which they functioned and exercised power, so let's say today we have, among other things, a point of the agenda, a confirmation of the loan agreement between KFV Frankfurt and the Republic of Serbia, which represents the minister and the water supply and sewerage of medium size municipalities, including the Vrbas municipality. Let me just say that from 2006 to 2008, we managed as a Vrbas municipality, the Dutch government's programme, to get a 5.1m-euro donation to build a drinking water factory and then the former regime, after it began to function in the Vrbas municipality, it cancelled it, lost that donation, and in 2017 we now have to solve the water supply problem through these loans to finally in the Vrbas municipality, where through the villages water did not satisfy the quality of the Vrbas construction, built the water factory, but when we know that at that time we had the grants from the Dutch government in that amount and that the DS at that time lost it and now we as SNS have to solve it in such a way and, as the previous speaker said, in 2017, the final citizens of Vrbas municipality to get drinking water for use in our municipality. What the people who exercised power at that time were able to destroy, lose, that the grants from the Dutch government were lost, we have to deal with it this way today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26352	Thank you. Comrade Becic, I really don't know what is true, and what isn't when local self-government is at stake and what kind of problems local self-government has. You are MPs to say that through your work in the National Assembly, what you have done, but you cannot go through a breach of the Rules of Procedure by taking you two minutes from the parliamentary group. Nemanja Sarovic: Two minutes and 25 seconds. ) Here is colleague Sarovic correcting me – two minutes and 25 seconds. The word has a minister, Dr Zoran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26353	Thank you. Now let's see if the MP got this all right, and maybe what you've presented so far and said is really what it says in these papers, or if there's been some kind of improvisation. It seems to me there's been a lot of improvisation in what you said, and I'll start from the beginning. When you talk about the Serbian Railways, I really think that we all have a common goal, and the common goal is that we use the railway much more than 15% in the transport structure of goods and passengers from total transport, we go to 25% over the next ten years. You're talking to me here, you're going to let me, I'm going to comment on it in my way maybe, I hope you won't be offended, but with no respect to what's been done, I still have to remind the citizens of Serbia when someone did what they did and what this government did in the previous period, and what they did to some previous ones on the Serbian Railways in general. Not fashion without showing one table where everything's zero. So, the only year since 2008 when 22 km of railway was reconstructed was in 2009, 2008 – 0 km, 2010 – 0 km, 2011 – 0 km modernized, reconstructed, maintained, 2012 – 0 km, 2013 – 0 km, 2014 – 0 km. These are the results that have welcomed us. In 2015, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/35 and (EU) 2015/35. - 36.3 km from IBRD loan 4, which was taken ten years earlier and no single euro was used. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/35 of 19 December 2016 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 as regards the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2016, p. 1). – 43.3 km of railway, also from credit and I can tell you which – reconstruction of the third northern section of the railway on Corridor 10, Mala Krsna, Great Plan 29.5 km long, then reconstruction of the first southern section of the railway on Corridor 10, Bujanovac-Vukarevac and Belgrade center – phase one. In 2017, what we're doing now, 135.8 kilometers has been completed so far. Another 54km, reconstructions of Gilje-Cuprija, followed by Gilje-Cuprija-Paracin, the Belgrade-Niš railways, as we discussed, 10.5km long and reconstruction of the construction of the second track on the Pančeva Bridge-Pančevo Main railway section, reconstruction of the second southern part of Vranjska Banja-Ristovac, reconstruction of the third southern section of Vinarce-Gjordjevo, the reconstruction of the Resnik-Valjevo section, etc. So that's what's been done for the past few years, since we've exercised power, which, you'll admit, is the most that could have been done, and of course, I'm not going to compare it to what's zero kilometers that's been done by 2014. I think it's very important. Besides, this country's got new trains. In this country, in the last few years, he has been investing intensively in rail transport. Maybe it's someone's -- there's a strong thing, we're doing one piece of the railroad and we haven't done everything, but we'll do everything. Belgrade-Nish deserves to be fully modernised, and will be fully modernised. He can't do it all at once. But it's terrible when I listen to people who've been running power since 2000, when it's invested in 23km of railways, telling us today how, well, a strong thing, 200km of railroad modernized. It is a big deal and it is a great thing. And there's got to be more. And this new railroad that we're going to modernise, Belgrade-Stara Pazova-Novi Sad-Subotica-border is very important to us. It's a two-wheel line, and now it's single-circuit. It'll be 200 kilometers, the average speed between 160 and 200, depending on the cities where it stands. So that's what rail transport is all about. You mentioned, too, I'm sorry, but I'm also following the tone, engineer. You say, "Why is there no engineer in the carnage?" There's no carburetor in the carburetor because no one has dealt with these people for 20 years, because the average age in the railway is 50 years, because there are no people who can work, not because the state has not invested and is not investing in the railways. Otherwise, the average salary of the engineer in Serbian railways is 55,000 dinars. Do we want it to be more? Yeah. But we have to work on several tracks, and that means investments, that means restructuring, that means taking care of the staff, which wasn't what it was about. Salary, for example, one engineer at the ministry is 45 thousand dinars. The salary of a junior engineer at the ministry is 33,000 dinars. Let me make you a little comparison. Furthermore, you said, among other things, a reduction in traffic. That's also one lie. You say: traffic is reduced because nothing is done and we record a reduction in traffic. The downsizing of rail traffic is only there on those tracks over the years. Resnik-Valjevo was working and in that situation we had to have a reduction in that year. But that doesn't mean it'll be now, next year. What I'm particularly proud of, and I'm surprised that you don't know that information, which is, since you mention how they visit Serbia, yes, they've visited Serbia by 2014 and 2015, it's all true. They went to Corridor 4, because no one for 20 years wanted to build this Corridor 10 and because you all talked about how we're the center, how we're the leaders, and no one alive came out to see if anything was built or done at all. It's been released 200km of highways in the past four years. Because of these 200 km of roads, we today have 47 million vehicles in Corridor 10; in 2014, we had 32 million vehicles. There's a big difference between 47 million vehicles today and 32 million vehicles. It says that someone is still going through this Serbia and that the number of cars is increasing, not because someone may love Serbia very much, but because Serbia is building highways, because Serbia is the shortest route between the east and the west, less than 150km from route 4. So the story that there's less traffic isn't true. I'm just gonna go back for a second to the carbon railways, too, to reduce traffic. Every year, 11 million tons is driven by a carnage. Our goal is to make it 20 million tonnes in 2020. Then you talk about Prokop and you say things that aren't true again. For 10 to 15 minutes of traffic, the "BG train". Here, the data, 105 "BG trains" per day goes through Prokop, 105 "BG trains". Six to seven pairs of remote trains going to Novi Sad. Well, don't say there aren't any trains, nobody lives, when it's not true. It's just not true. Phase two of Prokop, we're talking to the Kuwaiti fund to keep it going. We're hoping for a follow-up next year. Also, you were wrong. Let me remind you, LJig-Preljena is a stock that's been released, it's a highway, 40.3 kilometers. There aren't any dead people, there's not one dead, thank God, from the moment we let that highway go. Ub-Likovac, we'll see what the authorities do. It was all marked. You'll get the information. Next, you mentioned the deficit. You mentioned the deficit. Again, let's talk about the data. At the moment Alexander Vucic became Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, he was 76.5% of GDP, today at 62.5%. Please, I guess we can do math and add and subtract, it's 76.5, and today it's 62.5. Also, further, one more thing. The unemployment rate was 27.6%, and today and last month it was 11.3%. Sorry, that's a huge difference. There's no difference in one percent, that's the difference between 27.6 and 11.3%. (Zoran Zivkovic: It's a lie. That's not a lie. It's statistics, the Republic Bureau of Statistics. It's the same statistic everyone used before us. We haven't changed anything, but nothing. Also, you mentioned Nebojsa's street, the city of Belgrade. As far as I know, a criminal case has been filed against investors in Nebojsa's 8th. The jurisdiction is the city of Belgrade, but I must say that our entire success, for example, in the area of construction and on the "Ding Business List" that we are 10th in the world is mostly thanks to Belgrade, precisely building in Belgrade, issuing building permits in Belgrade, setting up a system. You can't end two million illegally built objects in the past 20 years right now, but there's really something going on, not something, or something that results. There are 20,000 construction sites today, below 500, so when this same Alexander Vukic became Prime Minister. Let's talk about the data, face it, whatever, but let's talk about who it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26354	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, you have no right to a replica. (Zoran Zivkovic: She talked for eight minutes.) She answered your question. You may not like the answers, but that's your problem. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26355	Mr. Arsic, a member of 106 has been violated who says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. You warned Mr. Zivkovic as he spoke, who spoke a little more extensively about the law, but you were also obliged to warn Zorana Mihajlovic, who spoke of things that had absolutely nothing to do with today's agenda. Alexander Vukic is not on the agenda today. I really don't understand your obsession with him. It's not on the agenda, nobody mentioned him. The second thing, today on the agenda is not even the unemployment rate, it has nothing to do with these laws. Today on the agenda, on the side that the data you are presenting is not correct, but neither is GDP. Or am I wrong? If you want, Mr. Arsic, to introduce a new standard and so extensively interpret what it is, which is not on the agenda, it can do that, but that standard applies to everything, that it is always valid and not valid when it suits you. You have to tell the truth, at least about those basic facts that everybody knows. You allowed Mrs. Mihajlovic to talk about a former regime, so she says – nothing was done in 2012, 2013, 2014. That's what he says they found. In 2012, you were the government. You're the former regime that didn't do anything. Not to mention you're the former regime because you've cooperated with Dinkic and Labus and others. So you inherited it from yourself. Do not deceive the citizens of Serbia in this way. In 2012, you were a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, voting for everything. You're held accountable.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26356	Time, fellow Sarovic. Okay. Now all the things that you objected to fellow Mihajlovic, you did. In an even worse way, through an injury, through... Nemanja Sarovic: I explained. Please, I kept my mouth shut while you were talking. You gave a replica through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. All who follow the Assembly, and the MPs, could see it. You mentioned that counterpart Mihajlovic was in government in 2012, that she was a former regime, etc. Does this have anything to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure? There isn't. There's something else I need to tell you. I see you are making progress and that instead of being a Democratic Party lawyer, you have become a lawyer and a New Party and Zoran Zivkovic. I wish you in law a lot of success. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. You don't have a colleague, Zivkovic, right on the line. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26357	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, speaking of roads, there are many ways and ways to make a man rich, but they are mostly ugly. My fellow farmer is living proof of that. People, he remembers the first train and the first railroad in Nis in 1874, believe it or not. Did I make a mistake, Mr. Chairman, here's Mr. Orlic over there listening, I think he said he remembered the first train and the first railroad in Nis in 1874. I thought Micun was older, and it turns out this one older than Micun. Maybe it's a time machine, and maybe it was the first pumpkin smuggling in 1874. I'm asking that it be marked. I thought all of it was that Sanda caught her coat, so it looks like she bought it. The wine road. Maybe that train had a wine road from Nis, over Fruska Mountain, the Adriatic Sea, the ocean and the Virgin Islands. So, the wine road ran, the winery, not to mention the last name, the winery Z.Z., the wine road, it must have been strange, maybe it went like some underground, underwater road, and it got to the Virgin Islands. The railway specialist from 1874 remembers it alive, so, and maybe it was over at the cafe, who knows, but a railway specialist according to his members' statements, so he's a railway specialist, called Istvan Kajic and Marko Matic "Time", a magazine, not to be "Informer" or "Pink", he would then argue. They say that in the original headquarters of Hilandar Street, in February 2013, he openly boasted that in his early youth, on a train trip from Nis to Belgrade, along with his train company, he had thrown a foreign citizen out at full speed, just because he spoke English. On the question of his shocked party friends, did the unfortunate man survive the eviction of Z.Z. He had been easy to answer – yes, he probably did, since nothing in the newspaper had written about it in the days to come. So that's why he remembers it, remembers it alive in 1894. I remember in 2001 and those years Albin Kurti, brothers of Mazreku, my fellow farmer was a member of the Federal Government, along with 104 members of the terrorist organisation were allowed to allegedly support their brothers Albanians or, as we call them, Shipara at KIM and, of course, they let them go and they all went to Switzerland. I don't know which train it was, but speaking of trains, he might have remembered Lulet, who, miraculously, in 2001, probably was business contrary to my fellow farmer, disappeared, but that's why Albanians were released. Let's see what route the wine was and what railway led it when it was from the Empress company, whose director, no doubt, claimed here that it wasn't, but according to these documents it was, it disappeared 189.000 bottles of wine, as it went to the concignancy sale, although domestic companies have no right to do so. Here, this is where the procedure is being conducted. Watch out, the Anti-Corruption Agency punished him with a warning, just so much, they could honor him. So much for the agency. That's what they say -- the party of the former regime founded the agency, I see the party of the former regime founded the agency. One hundred and eighty-nine thousand bottles of wine fit in 720 cc's, you need 36 wagons or 36 pc's. It's a column a mile long. It's gone and, of course, there's been a tax evasion. We may not need credits, but as far as the Tax Administration has found, the Nis branch, the unreported value added tax obligation of 17.948.952 dinars and interest on unreported liabilities, etc., then there is another violation. Maybe these loans shouldn't have made the wine route and that 1894 railway line more permanent, here's another one, "Empress" etc., another 894,000 with the corresponding interest. I don't know, maybe one train could be built. There's a saying that a superintendent can steal a grape, but God's former prime ministers can steal an entire vineyard, half of Fruska up, etc., and then by train over Fruska up there, they can go this way through the wine. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will support all these laws, no matter what my fellow farmer pleads against. Now you see why. So, specialist for various roads, mostly bad, mostly roads leading to wealth, and all these roads are mostly ugly. This criminal enterprise, which was jointly carried out by the former regime party and the bankruptcy administrators, where they put themselves in castles and fairy tales, and left the people on the street, with this practice should be interrupted and our citizens should know that the great misfortune and poverty, which was unsustainable to watch, was produced by just the ones who are the loudest today, did not build a doghouse, a parrot house, let alone some more serious highway, etc. They're certainly experts on loans. So, just a moment, we have that evidence where my colleague Z.Z. I've credited myself. It's the initials Z. Z, it's in the process... Like this, June 21, 2012. lends money to Z.Z., lender and borrower. Imagine what their loans were like. Just so you know, it's always high interest, but it lends itself 41,000 euros. Here's my fellow farmer's signature. That's why they don't support loans, because they had special loans, they borrowed their own money, and that's on interest. Look out, you greened yourself. Probably to justify where they got the money, so they say this - loanee Z.J. is obliged to pay interest calculated at the rate of the lender Z.Z, which will be accounted for and paid for on the maturity or upon repayment of the loan. No lies, no fraud. So, I always use documents. People's MPs resent it. Here I hear the voices of disdain. The previous speaker spoke about everything. I'm talking about loans. I'm saying what kind of loans they gave themselves were they taking loans to the state. These loans and loans are very low interest rates and we're mostly trying to get their loans that were on astronomical interest. People's MPs resent it. ) These screams do not turn me on, where it was mostly "immt" (if I was there), where they were embellished in that interest as in that 150 dinar bun, as in that "Tuborg" beer, etc. Who is it that has come into it, and hence these voices of dissatisfaction, and I bring forth the pure thing. So, they've been taking big loans with a big interest, and when they take loans, the people write a note. It's their fault for poverty. They fired 400,000 people. They didn't need railways and roads, so now they're denying all this, because they didn't have workers who were supposed to travel those roads, they didn't have any production. They totally destroyed it. They lived on loans and loans. That had its limits. They left the authorities for them at a good time, and we're left to correct all their mistakes. That's where the dissatisfaction comes from. Hence, the loanor's indemnity, the borrower's ZZ, who managed to lend himself 10% of the interest. From there, all of their famous combinations. That's where their penthouses come from. That's where the apartment from that 500,000-euro Koromana athlete, with the salary, I don't know how much. That's where some house was bought in Nis. Hence some pastures, buildings built, etc. That's where the four-list delineation on all those pastures came from. All these people will pay for it, all their mistakes, but I hope the people will be able to punish it. It's not the government's fault that they're not processed, it's not the Parliament's fault. We're not the third branch of government. We're not the judiciary, the D.A.'s on its own. The judiciary is independent, selected by the famous 2009 reform, and hence it draws some kind of amnesty and does not answer for all the crimes they have committed. As far as sewers and plumbing are concerned, I advise this government, I also advise the judiciary to come to itself, with a judicial power to pull the water away from yellow thieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26358	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. (Zoran Zivkovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) (Marinika Tepic: According to the Rules of Procedure, he answered. ) Marine colleagues, do you know that under the Rules of Procedure it is forbidden to use the electronics units of the other Member of Parliament? Do you know what the measure is for that? (Zoran Zivkovic: Give me the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. ) The word was received by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. (Marinika Tepic of Domination.) He wasn't in the electronic system, I gave the other MP my word. (Zoran Zivkovic: Which system you're in. Don't talk to me. You didn't get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26359	Thank you. Like I said, it's not easy to talk in this atmosphere, but I'll try to get back on the subject. It was quite clear that we had been off topic of the previous few discussions, and to say a few words about this bill. I'm joining the remarks that it's not good that something has arrived, which is supposed to be important, and I agree particularly important, and what arrived in August to be only now on the agenda. So now it's the other half, not to say before the end of November. It could have been before, if these agreements were so important, and we all know that we had some proposals that weren't even that important or urgent, so they were on the agenda. I'll talk about the first two points a little bit more extensive. As for these other two points, there's no God-knows-what to add, except I'm also joining the remarks that if the situation in the economy is so good in the budget, maybe we didn't have to do that 17m euros, if it's 17m euros, we're in charge of fixing the water and sewerage network in Kikinda, Vrbas, Knjižvac, Paracino. Anyway, I'm sure that's important, that's necessary. I'm just saying, maybe it could have been from the current inflow. Unfortunately, it's in the sea of these loans and debts, which we've nominated here over the last few months, this is one of the smaller and less scary items, although that's why we're worried. A much bigger problem is this other one, which, in my opinion, is very important and very big, the project is important, but the money is also very big and I will talk about it before the end of my presentation and I expect the Minister to elaborate it on me and the public. It's a Chinese loan. So, regardless of all the friendly relationships and relations with the People's Republic of China, the warm welcome we have recently had here and organized a senior guest from China, regardless of the greeting for the accommodative support of the visa waiver for the citizens of China, which we also voted here in the Assembly on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which I support all. So that's, as you would say, one pair of sleeves, and the other thing is commercial value and importance, the benefit of this loan. I think there might have been better solutions, and I think it was a little hasty, which maybe for some other reasons, maybe political and not economic reasons, got into that loan for this stock. I'm saying, about that then, I just want you to keep that in mind and I'd like for the public to comment on it a little bit later. I'm not gonna spend all my time, so I'm gonna leave something for tomorrow. I would like to return to what started today's discussion, this serious part of the discussion, and this contract on the establishment of a transport community, and there was one slow and semi-lemic with counterpart Miljan from the SRS, as well as some other colleagues, about whether or not this contract was recognised by Kosovo. You have made your argument and colleagues from the ruling majority as well. I'd say a little bit pasty that you're both right, but partly. So, counterpart Miljan mentioned for a reason that on page 198 of this agreement, citizens of Kosovo are really mentioned, and that is mentioned several times. It is also mentioned that Kosovo without a star, will gain the freedom to provide maritime services, transport in Kosovo, etc. This is on page 198. There are other places in this agreement. You are also right to be in Article 2 or 3, and on page 119, there is this fence that is important, and where the Serbian government has clearly insisted and has several places to do so. Use of the term – country, national, citizens, territory, etc. It will not affect the status of each Contracting Party under international law. Both this Article 2 and a series of others are talking about the Serbian side trying to get at least that star or Kosovo with the star to drag and install into this contract. I can't say that now with this contract, I don't know, it recognises the independence of the Republic of Kosovo. So, I'm not going to say it, but I'm going to say it anyway, and I see the need to emphasize it and fence it and speak if it's not about unclean conscience, then at least about suspicion or possibility and a hunch that it might be understood that way. I believe that the Serbian government does not want this to be understood, but somehow it is very much, and I draw attention to all of us, not only to this law, these agreements, contracts of regionals that are somehow more and easier to introduce Kosovo with a star or without a star as an equal partner. So, simply when it accumulates and accumulates a lot of these examples and these cases, at one point that star, as promised by a senior US official to Pristina authorities, will melt like snow in the spring sun. In order not to melt it, I appeal and call on all representatives, not only the Foreign Ministry, but all the authorities in Serbia to insist on it and that at least this little sovereignty we have and what remains on KIM so that we do not give up so lightly. That's all I'd like right now. Of course I could collect political points and say – you have recognised Kosovo's independence. You're not like this. Some other things and other documents from the Brussels Agreement to some other developments of the Brussels Agreement unfortunately went much more and much further in this direction of rest. So, not as much recognition as accepting Kosovo's independence and that's one game of words, which I must admit it to, the previous government has often insisted, and also this one -- we have not recognised and will never recognise Kosovo's independence. Yes, of course, but that's not what anyone's asking us to do, at least not so explicitly. We are asked not to oppose it, to make peace, so to reconcile with independence, not so much that it is directly and formally recognized. But let's go to more specific things now, I'm always trying to talk about the agenda and what's relatively important. Serbia is a central country, it's your opening statement, it's thought of a regional context, and you're right there, but it's not because of this or that government, or yours or the previous ones. It's the merit or curse of history, God, fate, etc. who threw us away and put us there, as was said many times, to build a house in the middle of the road. This house in the middle of the road has many bad sides, that is, the house’s position in the middle of the road has many bad aspects that we have tasted in history on our shoulders. But there is also a good aspect, and this is exactly the aspect that makes Serbia so important and without which, frankly, there would be no contract for the establishment of a transport community either. So, this central, regional position of Serbia, is a geographical thing I say, a curse, a geopolitical curse and a problem, but in skilled hands and in certain moments there can also be grace. Well, now, my remark is also my appeal that this position may not be enough or that we should use a little bit more and better, because I think, when it comes to this agreement, which is a very strange agreement, but from the very name is miracles. That transport community who? The EU's transport community and some unclear, unidentified five, six entities, called Southeast Europe, are not even the whole of Southeast Europe, it's actually an ex, without Slovenia and Croatia, and with Albania. Practically, that's it. Without Serbia, there is nothing. That's right, and since that's the case, I think we could, not just your ministry, but generally our government, better and more courageously use that position. One of the reasons why it was going through an emergency procedure with the proposal for this agreement, which also stands here in this deeper explanation, is that, in early December, there will be a meeting, which is supposed to make Serbia, or Belgrade, a place, that is, the headquarters of this transport community. Well, of course, that's exactly what I was talking about. Serbia has the central place, and they will find it difficult to find another capital to put that seat there. But it is more important to me than that status, symbolic gesture that Belgrade will be the seat of that transport community. It's more important for me to see what this transport community is going to do and what are possible benefits or perhaps dangers that it carries with it. It is also said, when costs are mentioned, 10 million dinars are mentioned, etc. The transport communities at the annual level, which is said to inherit the Southeast European Transport Observatory. I ask you specifically – what is the difference between the excrement of this newly formed transport community and the existing transport observatorys? Is it perhaps the idea, Mrs Mihajlovic, that at least you have a hunch that with such agreements, such agreements and such ad hoc, as he said, solutions, the EU is actually trying, and from their point of view very wisely and very rationally, that everything they need, in particular, is a transport link between Europe and this European area, including this southeast and the Balkans, to achieve such agreements, and that they have not committed themselves in any way to accept us, not just us, but other countries of the region, to receive us in the EU? In other words, will such agreements and similar agreements, which are being dealt with, of course, by ours in part, but with God and the EU's problem, do they actually solve the problem, bridge what they need or need, get to their southern members, first and foremost to Greece, and then, after that, when you enter those networks, do I mean not only traffic, but also political, then wait in the waiting room at the EU door, and if we receive or do not receive you? So what I'm saying is, that's the way and the attitude, the general recommendation, we don't need them much more than we do, at least when it comes to agreements like this. I don't say it as a Eurosceptic, of course I'm a Eurosceptic, but it has nothing to do with ideology now, it has nothing to do with whether we support European values or advocate Serbia's EU integration. No, it's just pragmatic and rational. My question and the additional dilemma is whether with this transport community, will the EU, on this basis, have a greater and more direct impact on politics, traffic policy and the country's strategy? Will they in any way impose their solutions and corridors that suit them, for whatever reason, more than, say, traffic solutions and communicative options for which citizens of Serbia and Serbia are interested? In other words, whether they will give us traffic priorities, such as I would say, the infamous Nis-Pristina-Tirana highway, which our government has shown great interest in, and to me, the profession does not seem to have that much enthusiasm and that there are not enough strong arguments to make that corridor, especially before some others, which have been told for years. For years, the completion of certain shares has been announced, and they cannot be completed. By the way, Mrs. Mihajlovic, among these zeroes you have read this way, how many kilometers, or how many railway networks have been reparated and restored in recent years, you are instructions of the ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelveth, thirteenth and fourteenth, at least two or three years you have stated here are the years in which this government is in effect. You weren't the minister in this vault, but this was the government and you were a member of that government. So some of these zeroes go to work and current power. But it doesn't matter. It's good to build. I call for construction, I only appeal that maybe we don't have to take every stock, every few miles so pompous and triumphantly open, and then people go astray and think that the road is really open, and it doesn't end at all. For half a decade, this coalition has been in power, so let's say for that half-decade or how long do you need, here's the specific question - how much longer do you need to end up in your opinion? I'm sorry if it's a bit of a leap out of the subject, but certainly a leg less than any other discussion that's jumped out. When do you think the word highway to the Macedonian border will finally be finished in the right sense? There's a projection, now you can say, I'd like to hear it, and I think the public of Serbia would like to hear it. The last thing, the structure of the budget for this transport community, when looking at the structure of the Community's budget, is said to be 80% of the EU's contribution, and the other members, I will not say the countries, so there are other members contributing from Albania – 3.20%, BiH – 3.55%, BJR Macedonia – 2.88%, Kosovo for the star – 2.57%, Montenegro – 2.38%, the Republic of Serbia – 5.42%. So 20% of this regional member, of which we see champions making material contributions. We will see if we will be champions of the benefit, and the EU gives 80 per cent. I am not sure that this is the right proportion, if we were to talk about size, either demographic or economic strength or demographicism, the number of residents or the surface areas of these members, or the countries that make this agreement. In any case, I'm seeing only the cost at this point, and we're just going to see Benefit, if we see it, and I'd like to hear from you what the benefits are to enter the transport community, except for this principle phrase or formulation, how good it is to integrate. It is good to integrate, but it would not be bad for us to determine these strategic directions and the corridors of integration, not for the EU to prescribe them for us. And in these few minutes, I'd like to ask you about this Chinese loan. We generally vote against taking credit, but if it makes sense for anything to take credit, then it's really infrastructure and it's traffic infrastructure, especially since it's high costs and I understand that. But on the same principle as I asked for the EU, Mrs. Mihajlovic, is it really the most optimistic solution that we take credit from the Chinese, under conditions that are not as ideal, because 2% is not as favourable as it was a few years ago, since interest is otherwise very low everywhere in the world. So we're taking a loan from the Chinese to build a single infrastructure that the Chinese actually need. Serbia does not need a 200km rail for the transport of goods, it needs the Chinese for their silk route. I respect that, I appreciate that, but if so, don't let them give us credit so that we can build a railroad for their money, pay them back a debt that will make it easier for them to penetrate the EU market. Then perhaps, I ask that perhaps, not at all, by questioning the positive assessment and the need for good relations with the People's Republic of China, that it could have been better negotiated, that maybe it was supposed to be some kind of joint investment, some kind of, I don't know, some other solution, and not, be careful, the solution that we're taking the loan that we're committed to, and I'm ending up, we're bound by point 2.5. The credit is, by the way, very high, of 297, practically 300 million US dollars, for one share only, for one share only, and that's a huge amount of money, so 300 million, practically, that goods, technology and services purchased from credit funds will be bought mainly from China in accordance with the commercial contract. So we take credit from them so that they can build, so that we can take from them mainly, though, goods, technology and services. It doesn't seem like such a perfect solution. I want to say, even when it comes to the EU, and when it comes to China, or the Russian brothers should have, however, that approach that should take place from whether it is in our interest and whether maybe the agreement can be more favourable. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26360	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26361	Thank you for your comments. Here's some more information, so I hope they complete your picture of these important agreements. There's no phrases here, there's no winning data reading here. These are just facts that differ greatly from data and facts from 7.8.10 and 15 years ago. So let me start with what you said first - why are we taking loans if the situation in the economy is so good? The situation in the economy is much better than it was, and loans are not taken just because the financial structure is determined, but because they provide a lot of benefits for certain projects. I will return to the project, therefore, the railways, the modernisation of the railway, because there are many important data from the largest, global project "One Belt, One Way" and that Serbia is part of it, to all other facts that I will talk about later. So when we talk about the Transport Community, you made one difference between me mentioning that the transport community of Southeast European countries, that Serbia is a central country. Yeah, I'll tell you, it's a central country not only because we happened here where we are, which is true, but because we finally started to use it for positive purposes, as a comparative advantage, our position. It seems to me, it doesn't seem to me, but I do, I see, and we all know, that it hasn't been done in the past 20 years, except that we had politicians who were just talking about some leadership in the region, and that leadership wasn't anything, but what we could see was that they were really visiting us, that it wasn't really being built, that it wasn't really being invested, except that politicians were using that phrase, because it was that moment phrase, now it's not the case. So Serbia is the central country of Southeast Europe because of its good standing as the most profitable route between the East and the West, and that is what we want to take advantage of this Transport Community, as we wanted to take advantage of the same thing to the energy community of the Southeast European countries. There is no more important investment than investment in infrastructure, whether it is transport or energy. You said at one point that this agreement is strange and that we don't see what kind of advantages we can have from the Transport Community and from one of these agreements, as well as the question of what differs from the SITO. He was built as an organization based on a memoir, so he has no binding character. Some things could have been done. Some things might not have happened. This is the Transport Community made on the basis of an international agreement, agreements, therefore, signed by the countries, including Serbia. A completely different character than SITO, in that sense because it has a binding character. Furthermore, this agreement will help all those projects, and now I'm going to tell you something about that, that these projects that we've defined as strategic corridors, are being realised much faster. Serbia is usually the first country, so Serbia first started talking about strategically important corridors a few years ago. All the projects Serbia has proposed, whether in railways, or in road traffic, road traffic, all have been accepted, have become part of the EU's basic transport network. So, these projects that we have proposed, these projects that have been adopted by the EU, are these projects that we will push through the Transport Community. Why the Transport Community is also important, is each of the countries of Southeast Europe, the Western Balkans are very different at the level of its infrastructure development. They are also different from how much they have complied with EU directives, as far as they are not. It is much simpler to create a single market of twenty million people, where we will be in one, somehow the same degree, we will go when we talk about the very alignment with EU directives. You mentioned the question - why is Serbia 5% in financing? In relation to the number of residents of countries that are signatories and in relation to the height of GDP, we wanted to admit or not, we are the largest. So that's the ratio, that's the percentage of 5%. Then, what's also important, I think it's important, is that everything we do about projects is different and very favourable for us to be the headquarters of the Secretariat, because it's different to look at and do things differently. I'm sure it can only help us, it can't possibly help us. You mentioned a Chinese loan, as we kind of call it. Don't get angry, but the line -- what's gonna make our railroad 200 kilometers an hour -- looks like that earlier period somewhere, and I hope that's not when the villagers rebelled about why we have trains in the first place, because it's the metal specks that scare cows. So, people, we need a 200-mile-an-hour rail. Today the whole country, the entire Corridor 10, has 200 kilometers per hour wherever possible, I think that's great. Let's stop going back and forth all the time and settle for us now having average speeds about 35 kilometers, so great, if we have 50, that's great. It's not great. We need at least 110 kilometers and 120 kilometers per hour, if I'm talking about Karg, we need 200 kilometers per hour if it's the modernization of the railroad, so the whole world goes much faster and much more. Unfortunately, we've had a lag in rail traffic since the last 30 years, now we're going wherever we can to those tracks. The second thing, this railroad, we are part of a big, global project, there is no bigger project in the world today than the Chinese project "One Belt, One Time". I think we should be satisfied with that, that's the benefits. The third important thing, this loan is with grace for five years, but what's very important to us, 49% are domestic companies. So 49% will work domestic companies, will be used mostly wherever possible, wherever we can do it, so what's called Serbian domestic equipment. Where, unfortunately, we can't, we'll have to get some new things. These are advantages and why we are taking this loan and why we are doing it in such a big project, which is not just a Serbia-China project, this is, for example, the current Serbia-Hungarian-China project. That doesn't mean we won't continue investing in Corridor 10. I think it's our most important corridor, whether I'm talking about passenger traffic, you asked me when, I was already saying it, and I said it would be completely over early next year in the first trimester. So, I think it's important that we move forward with modernisation, not just 36km of railway lines from Belgrade down towards Nis. That's why, so we wouldn't be released, like it was before. Another very important thing for KfW program, you should know that we have provided KfW with this issue of sewage or water supply in 17 cities in some way. It is 136m euros, out of which the German government's donation is 30.5m euros, so that's 22% and 105.5m euros is a loan, so it's not a complete loan. If I skipped something, you'll ask me further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26362	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, let's start with the whole atmosphere that we're working in today and what you've said here, that you've come to work and that you don't understand the opposition's objections as to why these points are on the agenda. I, of course, about how, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, this session is scheduled and why we were objecting and protesting today, I will not repeat myself. But I would like to inform you that you have been led astray, when, as the President of the Assembly has told us, you have asked that this session be held today, because time is running out and this law needs to be passed, to confirm the Treaties on the establishment of the Transport Community, because it is necessary to hold a Ministerial Conference and it is necessary to ratify this contract in the Assembly. You, as Government, sent this contract to the Assembly on November 1st. The Serbian Parliament refused to put the contract on the agenda on November 14th. There was no famous bell, MPs of the ruling majority did not press the button to find this point on the November 14th agenda. Then, apparently, you came and, for lack of time, asked the President of the Assembly to do what she did. She has transferred to you the responsibility that opposition representatives today could not speak of more than 150 proposals to supplement the agenda of a different policy than that led by the government. It's our right and our obligation. We've been denied it, and you're supposed to serve as an alibi. I'm telling you, you've been deceived, on November 14th this assembly has declared itself...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26363	And I'm telling you, colleague Djurishic, start talking about the agenda points. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26364	... that this point is on the agenda, and it wasn't on the agenda. That's why we have this debate in this atmosphere today. That's why, after all, we have an amendment to which... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26365	I'm asking you to start talking about the laws. We have this atmosphere in the National Assembly because Belgrade elections are expected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26366	Mr Arsic, I ask you to pay attention to what I am saying, and I am talking about the agenda point, unlike your colleagues from the ruling majority, who have not spoken a single word about the agenda point, but have spent all their time on personal insults by fellow MPs from the opposition, to whom you have not responded, or have responded with a smile. Please behave and perform this function in the way this Rules of Procedure is intended, and I will speak in the way I consider it necessary, respecting the Rules of Procedure. So, this assembly will now adopt, probably, and the amendment to have this contract enter into force, not on the eighth day that they should be adopted and published in the "Official Messenger" of the laws, but on the day of publication, just because there was no understanding, above all by the ruling majority MPs, to discuss this contract in time. I don't think this contract is bad. I think it's a useful regional connection. It is useful to develop the economy of Serbia and neighbouring countries. Whether we're going to call them Southeast Europe or the Western Balkans, I think it's less important. But what I can't agree with is something that's not in this contract. Here, in this contract there are a lot of words, a few tables and a little pictures. These images are mostly not seen in this material that we got, but in this electronic we got, so I pulled out here to see what a map of the pathways of the regional corridors, which is within this contract. What was interesting to me, because I've seen this map somewhere before, I just wanted to confirm that that's how it is, that, let's say, there's no Moravia corridor on this map. There's no highway to the Pojate-Pray. He's not here. It is, as a road in the plan, the Fruskogorski Corridor, and that is good, is the Banatski Corridor, the Banatska highway from Belgrade to Romania, and it is located, but there is no highway Pojate-Preljina. It doesn't exist. We did not fight for it, as you said, for you would say, "All that we have suggested has come in." It means you didn't suggest it because it didn't come in. There's also nothing you've been talking about for the past few days and it's been up to date, and that's the highway to Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's not on this highway map. You can see the plan to take the highway from Sarajevo up to the Bosnian Shamac and to connect on the highway to Croatia. So that's what's not here. Since there isn't one in this that should be a strategic document, then I wonder if that highway Pojate-Preljina will remain an empty story that you will tell every time we need it before the elections? Since the elections are here every year, that story will be repeated continuously from year to year, and there will be no movement. Now let me refer to the next item of the agenda, because it is a real picture of how this government deceives Serbian citizens. It's very interesting to me, however the Minister said today what we found. She then spoke of zero reconstructed railways in Serbia 2008, 2010, 2011, as well as 2012, 2013 and 2014. It seems now that the new SNS mantra is now that, in fact, all this time, as far as SNS' responsibility for the state of Serbia is concerned, starts in 2014. We seem to want to forget 2012, 2013 and 2014. And why should we forget? If the minister says - we found the height of Serbia's external debt 76% of GDP, it was 2014, but in 2012, it was 47%, when you took over and that debt was 15 billion. Then it was 25 billion in 2014, which was then 76%. It's numbers. If you don't believe me, go to the Ministry of Finance site, there are monthly reports, where you've been given the last time since 2000 on this site, and you can see all these numbers, how much is Serbia's duty at the end of each year. You will see, at the end of 2011, the debt was 44% and the external debt was 14 billion, and in the first six months it increased by another one billion, or 47%. If we talk about the number of unemployment, according to the minister, how they dropped from 26 to 11 and then said nothing has changed in statistics. It's a lie, Minister. It's not true! You have a letter from the Director of the Department of Statistics, which says, about the public debate on the rate of unemployment in Serbia, when people who have serious schools and colleges explained that they can't reduce the unemployment rate by so much, and that this is not seen in the growth of the social product, in the growth of consumption production, he says the next sentence – statistics were changed in 2014 and 2015 and data cannot be compared before and after.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26367	A colleague, please, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26368	The minister was talking about this, and I want to answer that, because these are lies that keep repeating themselves here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26369	The minister gave the MP an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26370	The minister was false here, and I'm going to go back to what else the minister was saying and what President Vukic was saying... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26371	Comrade Djurisic, if an MP has asked a question, he has received an answer. And you want to comment on the minister's answer? You ask your question, so when there are parliamentary questions in order, then you can comment, and now we have the agenda points we're discussing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26372	Thank you. I'd ask questions if I'd get answers to them. I can't get answers, because none of those I asked a question to answer. But let's get back to this Belgrade-Budapest railroad. For the first time in 2014, in September, the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, rides in China on a fast train and gives a statement there that we will make, modernise the Belgrade-Budapest track, that trains will go 300 per hour and that we will finish in three and a half years. So that's the first time you've mentioned that in September 2014. Then, in December 2015, Mr. Vukic is on the train, there is Mrs. Mihajlovic with him and they are opening a meter of railways. There are pictures here, here I have it, one meter of railroad opening up and the next thing I know, we'll be done by 2018 on the Belgrade-Budapest track. Belgrade-Budapest will end in 24 months from obtaining a building permit. It's 2018. We're all taking pictures, there's elections, of course, there's got to be a colorful lie to sell. So we'll finish the railroad in two years. Then, of course, these elections pass, and then we have in November 2016 an announcement that we will sign a commercial contract on building the Belgrade-New Paz railway just 34 kilometers away, that's what we're talking about today. The Minister announces in December – the works start in 2017, in six months. There were some elections going on again, it was supposed to be a little jewelry, it was supposed to get the eyes of the Serbian citizens again. And here we are today, at the end of November 2017, we are adopting this loan agreement that says the project should be completed within 42 months. Forty-two months, that's three and a half years. So, what's reality, at best now, if this law is passed? At best, we will have a reconstructed 34km of railway from Belgrade to Stara Pazova and that will happen in 2018. So where is this call, which is a responsible politician here, as you say, Mr. Vukic says - I expect with colleagues from China and Hungary to go from Belgrade to Budapest together, to show what can be done when people are committed and believe what can be done. Well, weren't you committed these two years and you didn't believe it because in two years you didn't do anything? You didn't do anything. Not 184 kilometers, as long as it takes, zero kilometers. Here today we're talking about a 20-mile track to Old Paz. You said to take your word for it, the reconstructed railroad from Old Paz to New Sad. We can take your word for it. You said, I don't know how many times now, I haven't had so much time to prepare myself, how many times you've announced the opening of the Iron Bridge, say, which is on that corridor, so it hasn't happened yet either. Let me ask you this - what is this plan and in what time do you plan, say, to reconstruct the railway from Novi Sad to Subotica? That's about 80 and a few miles. When are we gonna make this promise from 2015 that we're gonna take the railroad to Budapest in three hours? When are you going to invite your colleagues from China and Hungary to take a ride with you on the train in three and a half hours? That's irresponsible. That's irresponsible, because it won't happen in the next eight years, here, I'm telling you, eight years, because you're going to be working 34km of track, and when are you going to do the rest of 184, how long is it in Serbia, as you say, when will it be over? Can you give that answer? Here, now that it's not an election, that we believe there won't be a choice, so give us some real answer, don't lie, because you know there's going to be a choice in March so you can tell us some stories and fairy tales again. Let me say another little thing about this loan between KfW Bank of Frankfurt in Maine for the restoration of the water and sewerage network in the case of these four cities. I want all the best citizens of these four cities of Književec, Paracino, Vrbasa, Kickinda, I want these projects to be realized in those planned deadlines, to get quality drinking water and to solve the sewer problem, but I'm asking the question – what about other cities, those who have not been lucky enough to find themselves in a project like this? How will they develop their water supply networks, how will they solve the sewer problem? This loan amounts to 17m euros, which is two billion dinars. We here in the Assembly a year ago reduced our income to local self-government by changing the income tax rate for citizens who remain local self-government in such a way that local self-government has lost five billion dinars per year. So 2.5 times the amount of this loan. It means that at least six more cities could finance the construction of water and sewerage every year. This congregation has given them that right. She made out of local self-government beggars, who have to go to the government now and ask for help because they cannot develop their own infrastructure. That's why we were against that solution back then, and today we're against that solution. If we had had the chance to talk about supplementing the agenda, we would have asked it to go back to the level it was at, but we didn't have the chance. In addition, the withdrawal of funds by local self-government has further affected a poor picture of the development of Serbia's economy. We have the latest Fiscal Council report, which repeats, as every year for the past few years, that the rate of investment in Serbia is inadmissible, that only 18% of GDP is invested and that a higher level of investment in the state is needed for sustainable development. The state doesn't invest and it can't invest because it spends money on projects that spill money into private pockets. It is "Belgrade on Water", Mrs. Mihajlovic, it is "Er Serbia", it is projects for Serbian citizens to give millions and billions of dinars or millions of euros, however you will, which end up in someone's private pockets. For three years, we have been looking at the construction of two residential buildings in Belgrade under the "Belgrade on Water" project, and we represent it as a momentum of the economy, as something like it is done, and something has not been built before. Well, Stepa Stepanovic's neighborhood built five thousand apartments in three years. In Belville, seven or eight thousand apartments were built in a few years, at a time when nothing was reportedly done and a wasteland was left behind. At that time, badly, as you yourself must say, regarding this loan from China, that so far it has been approved $1.6 billion for projects to build the Zemun-Borca Bridge with access to traffic, the acquisition of scanners for customs administration, the first phase of the TA project "Kostolac B", the second phase of the project "Kostolac B", the construction of the Obrenovac-LJig highway, the only thing you have agreed to do is to build this highway of Surcin-Obrenovac, which is the only thing that this government, or all the governments of the previous five years, has made some contribution to developing this co-operation with China and this day. We're not against it, but you're doing it too slowly. For three years you talked about that railroad, it had to be finished next year, on your promise, you stood next to the Prime Minister when he said – in two years we'll be riding that train. Here, ask me, any day in 2018, to take that railroad, to see how long it takes us and where we'll be. It's a picture of this government, of this government. You can't count your time in government since 2014, because you've been in government since 2012, you may have been in a different portfolio, but you've been in government and you have to share responsibility. The last thing is about this one law which, I say, is by emergency procedure and came two days ago, which is to confirm the Treaty of Amendments and Supplements of Financial Contracts with some numbers here. You said there was a problem in the realisation of these financial contracts because of the overlapping of our legislation with the rules of the European Investment Bank, which finances these projects, the European Investment Bank, and that this solution should now allow this stalemate to be solved and the problems that exist to be bridged. Now I ask you, does this mean that the problem of getting medical equipment into KC in Nis will be solved? Since two contracts are mentioned here regarding clinical centres, I don't see which cities, "A" and "B" are called clinical centres, there may be one in Nis, where we have a case where the building is finished, where the equipment is now to be entered, but it can't be entered and the wall has to be torn down, as people say, and as the director says, a hole in the wall has to be made in order to bring that equipment into place. Who's going to answer for that? For this negligence, this incompetence? Who will be responsible for all those missed opportunities in the last five years? For what was missed by 2012, we were politically responsible, we lost the election. But you have to be here ready to criticise what's been done badly for your five and a half years. You can't avoid an answer to get away from responsibility. Our obligation here in parliament is to point to failures, to point to incompetence and irresponsibility, to false promises you make, to empty stories about how you're going to end something in a year, two or three, and that doesn't start in a year, two or three. You said yourself, here, perhaps in the first trimester, you hope, next year we will begin the realization of works on the Belgrade railway – Stara Pazova. Then that's what it's gonna take, for three years to end. And the rest of the railroad, there's not a word about it. As there are no words about when and within what time will the share from Preljina to Požega be completed, and what will and when will the journey from Požega to Bolar begin? It's only in pre-election shows, the Prime Minister sits in front of the map and writes, "Here goes the highway, here goes the road." No, it's not going anywhere, there's no highway, there's no plans, there's no expropriation, there's nothing, there's no funding. You know that very well. I want to know exactly how you're going to try to avoid liability for everything you haven't done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26373	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26374	I'll start with the last sentence - responsibility. I agree with you, each of us is responsible for what he does. We are voted by the citizens of Serbia, so as far as we trust citizens, so are we in this House, so do we have the president of Serbia and we have the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We'll see, of course, I'm talking about SNS here, what it's going to look like in the next period. Let's start with the Transport Community Treaty of the Southeast European Countries and find out that there is no Moravia Corridor on the cards. I'm sorry you didn't look a little more closely, so you'd see that there are two networks, one is a comprehensive or a cor network, one's a pardon, one's a basic or a cor network, and the other is a comprehensive network. This basic network only connects the most, connects the main corridors, and the comprehensive network has inside it complete all the projects that are important, and in which you have, now I don't know which side of it is with you, you have the true Moravski corridor, of course and Fruskogorski etc., but the Moravski corridor and how it exists. The government, which has just raised the issue of the Moravia Corridor, we have in the budget for next year the money that was allocated to change the idea project, which was made in 2011. We're currently working on a change of plans. At the same time he's talking to interested parties. It is the government of the Republic of Serbia, this one, was not Tadic's government. We had Tadic's promises that Corridor 10 would be over in 2004, just to remind you, for the Athens Olympics, I mean, I'm not sure. So where was this Corridor 10? Well, a million promises were made. Why don't we say that? It's also facts. When we talk about miles of highways and Tadic's promises, it has nothing to do with what was reality. I will remind you, when the same Tadic formed the National Council for Infrastructure, which once or twice met, in the end the Constitutional Court declared the unconstitutional business of such a body, no single thing, no single project was done during Tadic's rule when we speak to infrastructure. Loans were taken, the state was in debt, hundreds of millions of euros and from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank and the World Bank and ultimately there was no project. So, this ride that was made during that period, that's the responsibility that welcomed us that there was no completed Corridor 10, that the Corridor 11, that's right, you were drawing probably on the map of Serbia, but it wasn't either Vukic or SNS, it was someone who was before us. So if we're talking about responsibility, let's talk about who did what and how many miles of rails you've made. When I was talking about miles, here we go from the highway. In 2008 zero kilometers of highway. That's the data, zero miles of highway you made. In 2010, a zero-mile highway was built by the government, whoever it was. So, at that point, you had Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Oliver Dulic, Minister for Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. This year 2008 is the same as Mirko Cvetkovic and Oliver Dulic. So when we talk about the data in 2012, 94 kilometers of local roads, zero kilometers of highways. In 2013, eight kilometers of Serbian House – Donji Neredovac. Then, rehabilitated, reconstructed 238 kilometers from regular business 124. Refurbished and reconstructed, rehabilitated local roads 50 kilometers. During that period, Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister, first Vice-President Aleksandar Vukic. In 2014, the famous Ub-Lajkovac, which was approved during your reign by the National Council for Infrastructure to go from field to field, and it has been known that five, six years in the next, will not be there, behind the done share of the road, and from the budget financed by 70m euros, and we need to fix it today. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. 39 kilometers of highway, or 26.3 kilometers of Vladicin Han – Donji Neredovac, Red River – Chiflik, 12.7. Rehabilitated and reconstructed 262 kilometers of road, local roads 110. At the time of Alexander Wolf, the Prime Minister. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/35 of 19 December 2016 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 as regards the financial rules applicable to the general budget Rehabilitation and reconstruction of 432 kilometers were then reconstructed. It was then completed, repaired and so on about two hundred bridges, smaller, larger, crossings and so on. Local roads 202 kilometers. Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. And these are also facts that probably some people don't like. In 2017 for now 49.7 released in traffic, we expect another five kilometers to be released at the entrance to Piroth, 12.2 released in traffic on July 13th, that is Chiflik – Stanice, Kelebia loop Subotica, 30.5, also released in traffic Stančićenje – Pirot East, Pirot East – Dimitrovgrad, Kragujevac – Batocina, 3.86. Planned among other things, as I said at Corridor 10, 200km rehabilitated, a hundred local, Aleksandar Vukic until June 29th, and then Ana Brnabic. So that's also data and I can read rail data again because they're correct. Yes, zero kilometers and we can like it here or not, but we all know that trains had average speed, and even today, much of the trains in Serbia, or on the tracks, have an average speed of 35 kilometers per hour. That's because it didn't invest in railways or roads. You know, a sentence that I lie when I say it wasn't invested, I don't think that's really true because the data shows something quite different. As for the project you say is a missed project, so you mention "Belgrade on Water", so on and so forth, the fact is that the airport's value estimates today are at least ten times higher than in the moment, so when we had JAT. Thanks to Er Serbia today we have 47 destinations from the same airport, then there were 12 destinations. Thanks to this Er Serbia today, we can discuss that Nikola Tesla Airport is the fastest growing airport in the entire region. So that's the facts. During JAT, when there was JAT, it was your time, when the five feasibility studies rule of what to do with JAT, so no studies were realized. That's the responsibility you're talking about. I understand that you are being punished by the citizens and that you are not, do not exercise authority now, but when you speak, then let's say what is true, because what you have said so far, and you say the name Corridor exactly and everything behind it you say is not true. Also, you were saying I'd stay here. There's one more thing when you were talking about a contract on the Transport Community and when you mentioned corridors, and the citizens of Serbia don't get it wrong, everything Serbia was planning to build on the roads, which means, the end of Corridor 10, Corridor 11, as we call it, then the Moravia Corridor, the French Corridor, the Fast Traffic Shabac-Loznica, when we talk about Nis-Merdare-Pristina roads, that is, depending on the level of documentation, it all stands and is planned in our budgets in the next programming budget, the next, three, four or five years. Somewhere in the project technical documentation, spatial plans are changing somewhere, we already have documentation like Nis-Pločnik, we're having talks with international financial institutions or partners somewhere. So there's not one thing standing, and there's not one thing standing. The railway – modernising the railway, it's not just modernising the Belgrade-Budapest railway, it's building a second track. Now it's a one-way track, now it's a railroad where you have to drive who knows how much to get to the border, and it's a rail that's going to have an average speed of up to 200 km per hour, and then when it's approaching a city of course it can't go 200 km per hour, so it's probably going to be something less, but it's a railroad that's not just up to Serbia. This is a three-state project, one is Hungary, the other is Serbia, and the third is China. So, China, which is located, comes as an investor and a lender, China that makes its plans, and Serbia is compared to Hungary and we have said that several times, has always been the first. So we now have prepared documentation, much more than our Hungarian partners. So, when you're doing major infrastructure projects, weighing several billion, and here only the third share, from Novi Sad to the border, is going to be close to a billion, and we're not talking about the first two shares of the Chinese loan and the other shares that are already being done from Stara Paz to Novi Sad from the Russian loan, we're talking about a project close to two billion euros. These are projects that are of international importance, international projects. So they can't depend on just one state. I don't mean at all, I don't think that when the works on the first part of Belgrade-Stara Pazov start next week, and on the second part of Stara Pazova-Novi Sad, the Russian company RZD is already working with our companies and I believe that we'll all be driving this track, as we'll all be going through these roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26375	Right on line, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26376	I have to thank the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister for giving me a way to defend my position. You're now finally talking about how when big projects are being done, two billion, how many countries are involved, how it takes time, how it should be done. You attacked Boris Tadic at the beginning as if he were personally responsible for what was done from 2008 to 2012, not that these were the same large international projects and international loans and that more than billions of euros are worth these projects and that these projects were then done much more intensively than they are doing now. And you put out the wrong numbers, that it wasn't done, zero miles of highway in 2008, 2010. It's a lie. So, 180 km of highway was done in four years. Furthermore, 250 km was planned, provided funding, there was an expropriation, and that was what awaited you in 2012. It waited for this government in 2012. How do you deceive, not just me? Here I am reading what the Prime Minister said in December 2015 when you were riding that train and talking about how in two and a half years you would be driving 200 km per hour, the Prime Minister said – so far we have rehabilitated 120 km of railways, December 2015. You are here to us, when you instructed these zeroes, so zero was both in 2012 and in 2013 and 2014, and then you said in 2015 we did 30 and a few kilometers of railroads. So you deceived Mr. Vukic when he said 120km was rehabilitated, both him and all the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26377	You're bringing the end. Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26378	I thank the chairman. I am reporting for the replica, as several times the SNS was mentioned and what awaited the Serbian government in 2012 and what awaited the SNS as one of the headquarters of the then government. First of all, a whole list of lies and lies was presented, starting with 47% being a public debt of 15 billion euros, which is of course not true, because in October 2012, Mr Dinkic came to the same assembly, who simply gave the proposal as a finance minister, for a budget that showed that 56% was only public debt at that time, and amounting to 17.7 billion euros, while many debts were hidden through business banks that did not enter the Republic of Serbia's budget. This left 750m euros in annual debt to 558 restructure firms, worth three billion euros for the next four years. In doing so, there remained a debt of about 1.4 billion interest left on 213 loans raised by 2012. So nine billion debt simply remained like a permanent debt movement that reached 71.3% of Serbia's public debt. It was meant to stop simply such a trajectory of debt, reverse and reduce permanently every year, with difficult economic measures, with a difficult fiscal consolidation of the budget, while maintaining social peace and people to be financed from Serbia's budget and working on infrastructure projects. That's what SNS was doing. When we talk about investments, at the time, they made investments exclusively for the personal companies "Darekt Media" by Mr. Gilas and Mr. Miskovic, when we talk about "Bellville". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26379	You're bringing the end. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26380	Let me just add one more thing, and I think it's important. When you mentioned the loans, in 2012, the grace periods of all possible and impossible loans that Tadic, DS, had taken prior to that, had expired for the past ten years and you had taken a hand and a drop of credit that you had not had a single project done at all. So, you've been in debt, you've been taking credit, you know you don't have the project technical documentation that it takes, among other things, six months to a year to get it done. In 2012, the grace period expires and, of course, comes for us the commitments and interest that we have to pay and that is the moment that the state of Serbia is facing the most difficult period of at least 15 years, which is that all those loans behind which, among other things, there is not a single investment that you started, we have to return and pay interest. That's one thing. The second thing, when you talk about justification for why Corridor 10 is not finished when Tadic said it would be completed in 2004 and that it is a major infrastructure project and that it depends on others. There's a big difference when you're building a railway with Hungary and China, then you know it's other countries that depend on it, but Corridor 10 and its construction within Serbia didn't depend on Hungary, not on Bulgaria, not on Romania, not on Bosnia, not on any state, it depended solely on the then government of the Republic of Serbia and on the DS which did not make a single kilometer of highway in 2008 because if you gentlemen had done so, then we wouldn't have to do anything at all. We'd have Corridor 10 done and we'd be dealing with some other corridors. Unfortunately, you haven't done one more thing. When you talk about this public debt, unemployment, incorrect data, I beg you, this is what the citizens of Serbia are looking at, but we should still talk, and I hope that you too are behind that we should be telling the truth and just the truth. There's not five truths, there's only one truth. I will tell you that Tadic has promised to employ 300,000 people, and during Tadic, the number of employees in Serbia has been reduced from 1.8 million employees to 1.6 million employees, 200,000 people are out of work. That's the data. So it's not a criticism problem, but it's a problem who's criticizing us. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26381	National MP Goran Ciric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26382	You have now proven how ready you are to conduct a dialogue here that can bring some solutions. Later, when I have a chance to talk about these laws, I will talk about trying to contribute some of the solutions that are important to the citizens of Serbia. I agree with you that here we should talk about the truth and only the truth. That truth is verifiable. We've heard some data that, it seems to me, is V.D. by now. The Director of the Public Debt Administration was next to you and he could have transferred that information to you, but here's that information, they're also public on the Public Debt Administration website. You talked about it, and I'll read it to you. Anyone who wants to access the Public Debt Administration site can see for themselves the next thing. In 2000, the total public debt was 14 billion euros. This amounted to 201% of public debt participation in GDP. Gross social product in 2000 – seven billion euros. Four times less than the same 2012 you're talking about. In 2012 – 31 billion euros. So that's the data you can check and I'm calling you to prove our truths, but not in such a terrible way, but by reading the figures. You mention 2012 and the constant answer was – in 2012 it was 14 billion and 700m euros, in June-July of the month, and then the then Finance Minister Dinkic, in that government, your first government, owed two billion and then you can talk about the percentage you mentioned in September or October of the month. And then we can talk further about data that is accessible to all of us, because it's clear that since 2012, in mid-2012, when it was about 15 billion...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26383	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26384	... That debt has grown to 25 billion today. It's down to 24 billion, first of all because of... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26385	Thank you, colleague Kiric. Right on the line, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26386	It's a good thing we came to the point of telling the truth. I'm glad to hear that you received this information about the height of public debt in 2012 from Mladjan Dinkic and that you were so naive, I must really admit you believed in the story that Serbia is in front of bankruptcy. And you've been repeating that story for five years, and how you saved Serbia from bankruptcy. Serbia was not a moment ahead of bankruptcy. It is a lie that Mladjan Dinkic has served here and you have accepted and repeated for five years. As the same young man, Mladjan Dinkic, is responsible for all the bad credits you're talking about here and who allegedly came to collect in 2012, I have to admit that I wasn't in the government, but I would very much like you to explain it to me. You said Tadic promised to end Corridor 10 for 2004. In what capacity could he make such a promise? He became Serbia's president on July 11th 2004. If it was for the Olympics, it was two weeks before the Olympics. Do you really think he said two weeks before the Olympics - we'll finish Corridor 11? Who can believe your lies? Don't lie, don't tell Serbian citizens, deceive them, don't invent that information about the number of employees in Serbia, because the number of employees in Serbia has never been less than a million and 850,000 people. It's a little over two million today. It's numbers. Go to the Ministry of Finance website, go to the Public Payments Authority site, and you'll see that these numbers are correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26387	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26388	Mr. Chairman, article 107 and dignity. If every time the term of lies is used here, and the truth is brutally bypassed, we have to react, I really don't know what the session of this assembly will look like? So, what do I think he has to react to? To go around the truth so unscrupulously here, to say it, that someone here is calling on official statistics, the data of the Public Debt Administration, and he doesn't want to say, he doesn't want to say it himself, and I don't understand it now, is that right there, in that official statistics, right on the website and the Public Debt Administration – 17.7 billion at the end of 2012? It says. Great. We understood that the truth was being bypassed here when someone was talking about some 14 or 15. So 17.7. I ask further – what is disputed then, and how can it be said that there is a lie here? How can someone say they're lying here when they say that the 17.7 is worse than the 14 that they just reported in 2000, that that's even more? How can someone say that a lie is that after 12 years, which is the write-off of various debts, on every possible and impossible basis, which privatisation, which also brought some billions, eventually turned out to be a debt greater? Why can't someone accept and openly admit that if we look at this particular debt, it's worse and harder for Serbia than the previous decade, both misery and wars and sanctions? Then who's lying about it? And then who can be allowed, Mr. Chairman, to use that word and that term in this room? I think we should react to these things, if for nothing else, just so that Boris Tadic, so successful for those 17.7 billion and those hundreds of thousands of lost jobs, find himself in a position to return and continue the destruction he has made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26389	I thank my colleague Orlic. You know what, colleague Orlic, I have to tell you that I don't agree with that speech to say the word - lies in the assembly. But I let them go. I can no longer warn them, I can no longer give them a warning, I can no longer exclude them from the work of the National Assembly, because when you have no political idea, political programme and result behind you, then you have to act and understand them, please. Don't take that for evil. Every time he's denied or confirmed each and every one of us. Time. I think their time is over, and we have a denial everywhere about their policy. The word is from a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26390	Thank you, Chairman. The colleague was not an MP at that time when the budget rebalance came in 2012 in this assembly, in October of the month, for the simple reason that at that time there was no longer the possibility of paying the salaries and pensions, because besides that debt, which was of 15 billion, simply, could not be paid to health workers, nor teachers, nor teachers, nor pensioners, because interest came, precisely from those loans they had raised. When you have a problem, with the so-called. The liquidity, i.e. "cash flow", to modernly say those who teach us today, then you have to be in charge, to service the needs of all categories of society, of which simply live on Serbia's budget. It happened in 2012. What they hid were the final accounts of public enterprises kept in business banks, which were kept in restructured firms, which were also held in court verdicts, 20 billion dinars, due to the error of the then defence ministry and their party president, who remained in debt to military pensioners. This was faced by the Serbian Progressive Party, not to mention that the methodology they are talking about was to be changed in their time, because it is according to Eurostat standards, which is much more stringent than the methodology was done by 2012. No methodology is good for them, because the debts were very high, because they owed Serbian citizens over the next five generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26391	The word has a minister, Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26392	It's just a little supplement. Let me tell you, not only Tadic, that he said that Corridor 10 will be finished in 2004, but then Minister of Transport and Telecommunications Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic said in 2004 and 2006, that the road will be completed through the Grdelička gorge. Just to say it's both Tadic and Maria Rushete. Marija Raseta was not a member of the Serbian Progressive Party, but was a member of the Democratic Party. That's it. (Goran Ciric: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26393	Word has folk MP Djordje Kosanic So what if the D.S. was mentioned? [[Goran Djiric: I was looking for a replica. The Democratic Party is mentioned.]] Are you ashamed of your ministers? (Goran Đirić: We are not ashamed. I ask you, are you ashamed of your ministers, so ask for the right to replication or not? If Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic was your minister and that is the basis for your replica, then you are ashamed of her. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26394	The Honorable Minister, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, I will try to get back on the subject. Today, we have four draft laws on the signing of the contract, and I will remind again - about the establishment of a transport community, about the loan for the Modernisation and Reconstruction Project of the Hungarian-Serbian rail link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the Belgrade centre-Stara Paz, about the loan for the Water supply and sewerage programme in Serbia's medium size municipalities, and about the changes and additions of the financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The minister, the JS parliamentary groups in the voting day, will support the bills mentioned, and at the very beginning my presentation will focus on the proposal for a legislation on the transport community. I must say, this law is very important. It seems to me, Minister, after the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, this is one of the most significant, let me say, agreements we've had. Its goal is the single market for land, river, maritime traffic between the countries of the Western Balkans and the EU. Practically, it is a way for all Western Balkan countries to have a single market when it comes to transport. Ten years ago, Minister, we received a single electricity market based in Vienna. We now have a single transport community and I, the minister, am hoping to be headquartered in Belgrade. You said earlier that this should happen in December and that's good news for all Serbian citizens. We talk often about jobs, we talk about building roads where Serbia is a country bordering many countries. We need infrastructure projects and you mentioned Corridor 10, 11, Moravia Corridor, Frushkogorski. I come from Kragujevac. We are close to ending this highway from Batocina to Kragujevac, but what is important to all of us, Minister, is the fact that every time we build it means bringing investors, it means new jobs, and that is the essence of the things that we all need to know here, which we should know about Serbian citizens, and that is a big deal for all of us. Also, the fact is that we have a major stalemate at our borders. The flow of both goods and passengers is difficult, and I am sure that this agreement will, in large part, help to facilitate, and ultimately, that is also the interest of all of us and all of the signatories of this contract, to facilitate the flow of both passengers and goods. As far as the transport community is concerned, I will say here that it has six parties, plus the European Commission. The European Commission will finance one side with 85%, if I am not mistaken, and 15% will be members of the region. Not to be longer, as far as this agreement itself is concerned, to say one important thing, that, on the one hand, by signing this agreement, the EU shows that these countries of the region are extremely important to the EU. On the other hand, what is important is the fact that our important national projects can be implemented through regional projects. On the other hand, the important fact that we are showing is that we can work together with the countries of the region, that we can create road infrastructure and all other things, noting that there are important differences between us that we can ultimately overcome because of these things. When it comes to the second bill, confirming the Treaty between Serbia and China's Exort-Import Bank for the Modernisation Project of the Construction of the Hungarian-Serbian Railway Connection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the Belgrade-based Centre-Star Paz, at the very beginning, concerning this law, I will say that only the reconstruction of the first fast track section from Belgrade to Budapest will be financed. Belgrade Center-Stara Pazova and that will be, I say, the railroad on which the trains, you mentioned earlier, someone believes, someone doesn't believe, but the important thing is that trains will move up to 200 kilometers per hour and that's good news for us. So the value of this credit arrangement we got is $297 million. So that's about 85%. Fifteen percent will be financed by the Republic of Serbia, just over $50 million if I'm not mistaken. Loan duration 20 years, five years grace period, 2% interest. When I say all of this, I'm starting with the fact that this is an extremely good loan, not going back the way we had all our loans and how it was in the past. So this is a good thing for us too. The deadline for performing the work is 42 months. Otherwise, the completion of this section will take a little less than three hours to Budapest, if I'm not mistaken, Minister. Also, what good are things here? This track will be built according to European standards and will be an integral part of European railways. On the other hand, it will also be important because of one more thing, besides Budapest, a quick arrival to Vienna and other European destinations will be available, and when it is completed, for Serbian citizens, the good news is that, let's say, we will reach Novi Sad in a little less than half an hour and reach the border within an hour. Now a few words short on the third law. Therefore, confirming the loan agreement between the German Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia amounting to some 17m euros for reconstructions of sewage and water installations in several cities. You signed it. In addition to these funds and loans from the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, grants were provided for the programme from a specific fund. At the very end, no longer prolonging these laws, to say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all the draft laws of this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26395	Thank you. Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26396	Dear Chairman, because of your strange nervousness, you just didn't give me a replica and mention something I've never said in this House, and that's a lie. I didn't tell anyone he was lying. I have called and agreed with the Minister to talk about the truth and to try to talk through dialogue on these important issues, because here we have four documents that we received at least a minute to twelve or a minute to ten, before the final deadline of the session so that we do not, as a parliamentary group, give our proposals to the law, our proposals that should correct some of the solutions in some of the laws. Here, we're going to try to bring this conversation down again today on how we could make these documents that we're talking about today look better, to be more efficient in realising all of what we adopt in the Assembly, but also to avoid the damages that this way of work and the Parliament and the Government bring to us. I will also talk about it, and I will try to call the minister, as her colleague, Mr Vujovic, is not here, and we have these documents and these laws of him, and not by chance as the proposed minister who should be present in this debate because we are talking here about three contracts that bring new responsibilities to the Republic of Serbia, which is, of course, an important aspect, because we cannot separate the debate on these documents unless we talk about the macroeconomic state of the Republic of Serbia, about public debt. Until recently, there was also a vice director of the Public Debt Administration. I see he's not here anymore, and I think we have a problem talking about it, because obviously we disagree on the interpretation of some publicly available data, and we talked about it earlier. I'm gonna start talking about the Transport Community. That's where I'll agree with most of my colleagues and colleagues who said she was definitely good. Every normal one will say that we need and need to make more effective co-operation in the region, in this area with all the consequences we have had, especially in the 1990s and all the years to come. It is necessary to invest in infrastructure, with a simple reason, and that is the goal - to connect as effective people as possible, to connect cities, to connect whole countries, and to make this pass and communication more efficient and easier. We don't have any dilemmas here. It's principles, it's a strategy we can agree on. But we also need to talk about how we will achieve that strategy. You mentioned often that, here, we become the leader of the region. I would like to be really leaders, both in policy and strategic initiatives, as is this one, but also by being ready to mention and highlight that leadership, because I will remind you when it is launched and when a memorandum of this agreement has been signed on which we all agree. Most often we talk, here, now we have heard in this debate several times - this former, evil, yellow hair, but here, it was launched at that time in 2003-2004, signed in June 2004, and was then part of the DSS government, G-17, with minority support of the SPS. Now you and your majority are taking part in the adoption and proposal of this Agreement, and this is something that clearly shows that virtually all political actors on the political scene of Serbia participated in the creation, part and adoption of this document. That is why I cannot understand this approach of yours, in which every criticism is the answer – and what did you do in the previous period? Well, at least here we can agree that I'm not going to get that answer. When we talk about leadership, I would like us to be leaders in efficiency, in implementing projects in an efficient way, in a quality way, in responsibility and transparency in this process. So that's where we have to go from the people who are going to use these infrastructure projects. We usually talk about squares and miles of roads, square meters of paved roads, and basically, it's all about people. I think we should also talk about it from the point of view of people, their safety, their ability to create conditions for the lives of their families, to facilitate their jobs, their communication and make the future safer, safer and safer. We have an example of precisely this irresponsibility in the case of the papers that you have condemned on the Ub-Lykovac road and the loss of one life. And that one life needs to be our guide in the responsibility of how we should implement the strategies that we are talking about here. You spoke for yourself, and I won't be opening up sites here to talk, but you're looking for the project, which you just said -- there was some previous government involved, the project was launched in 2010, but it's over in 2014 and now we can ask for the skill of whether this final layer and the basis of clay, asphalt, or as you have already stated in that indictment, some previous minister and a large number of performers, who are responsible for the millions of damages, or the billion that you mentioned, are responsible for your authority, your government from 2012 to 2014, when that project was completed, or only those who have designed it, or who are the level of responsibility and those who have not adequately marked and protected access to that trafficker, which has no beginning or end. Then we have a lost life, for which no one is accountable, or answers in a way that is fined. Now, it's a matter of leadership, a question of leadership in responsibility, a question of leadership in the first instance of future such events that can lead to us in such a way as to realise infrastructure projects. So this security issue raises one question. I would really ask you, when we realized Corridor 11 and Corridor 10, we watched multiple times, on multiple occasions, the opening of highways and from the Red River towards Dimitrovgrad, we watched openings in other positions, towards the border with Macedonia. I will ask you – does each of these highways and open shares, each of these lotes have a building and use permit? This is very important, I think it is important, once again, first of all, for the safety of people, for the safety of citizens and for the way these projects are implemented. So much for this part, with another note – this started in June. Every major project needs some continuity. Big strategic things don't come true in half a year or one year, in constant instability in the state and in constant uncertainty. The second proposed law in the National Assembly is something that also shows in a symbolic sense the course of this session and the way this session is scheduled. We have a proposal here. First of all, this law has entered, on the grounds of the President of the Assembly, on your request, because of urgency, and it is necessary to discuss this document urgently. So, I will remind you and read this part of the argument – after reference to the assembly procedure and the text of the contract translated into Serbian, with the original text of the contract in English, two technical errors that need to be corrected in the Serbian version of the contract were observed as follows. So, we only now after six months, we've lost six months, because of the urgency and contract that we've adopted in this assembly, we've accepted this text that the government has proposed to this Assembly, we believed, and then you get the text of the document, it's really absurd, the English version in one form, in one format, the Serbian version in another. And now, because of the wrong Serbian translation, we've been losing six months, and I'm going to try to calculate both the effects of that speed and the effects and the insufficient responsibility of all of us. So this is not just a technical matter, because to make absurdity even bigger, it says here – so point 5 point 4 of Article 4 of the contract translated into Serbian, behind the words "account for" instead of saying, "building the E763 shares of Surcin-Obrenovac", so a small mistake, instead of the Surcin-Obrenovac highway, should be said: "Modernisation and reconstruction of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the Belgrade-based Central-Star Paz stock. So it's not the same direction, it's not the highway, it's the railroad. Such a mistake is truly inconceivable to me, in a document that the Government with great attention, great analysis, with a strategic plan, with a key project, 300km per hour of Belgrade-Budapest track, after six months we get a correction because it doesn't stand the same thing, essentially. Instead of a railway highway, not in the same direction. Now we here in a lot of anxiety, under an emergency called session, talk about it, because that's why we have different effects. Apart from this session, I'll tell you that we have financial effects, and here, about that, when we adopted this contract, we were then with Minister Vujovic, I remember, talking about terms, interest, the way this loan is withdrawn and the terms are 2% interest, I'm not going to analyse it, where it's said that credit processing costs are 0.25, but the rate applied to the non-debt fee is 0.25% a year. So with this amount of credit, that loan processing fee is 744,000 dollars, so a non-debt fee, and we, if we're six months late, or maybe something more, you can calculate which interest we're going to pay in an estimated half of that 744,000 dollars. It costs so much our speed, our urgency, our unwillingness to talk, in the way we conduct dialogue and understanding each other and the arguments whether they sit on the side of the position or opposition. That's why I'm criticizing you, and that's why we're asking you to have real dialogue. The third bill of law we have received is a loan agreement between KfW and cities mentioned in the resolution of major problems in Serbia, water supply and treatment of waste water, and I have no doubt that it is absolutely necessary to support it, because it is the same responsibility for the citizens of Serbia and their health, because clean drinking water is crucial for the health of the population, in addition to all other sources, and of course the treatment of waste water and the provision of a healthy environment. I can give you some suggestions because I have some experience precisely in co-operation with KfW and GTZ from the first stage, because the city of Nis was a pilot project in 2001 in realisation and third altitude zones and new procedures, springs and users of one significant piece, with great gratitude then, donations of nearly 30m euros to the city of Nis for the renewal of asbestos pipes that are poisonous, lead pipes. I think it's important, and how important, to support it in order to protect the health of the population. It is certainly important for the citizens of Paraćin, Književci, Vrbasa, Kickinda and there we do not have the dilemma to support the project, and it is also important to transfer this expertise in the analysis and way in which these projects will be implemented, because this is important and structurally implemented, because due to the state of local self-government and budgets of local self-government they are not able to implement such procedures on their own, because here we have been reducing the budgets of cities and municipalities from year to year. This is a way for some infrastructure, some of the life problems of these cities and municipalities to be solved. So, you have a suggestion, it's an important role for the government. It is important because the treatment of wastewater is especially, and the supply of clean drinking water is not just a matter of one local self-government, one city only. It's a question of the whole region, the whole plums and the way cities that are on the rivers that can contaminate other cities along the way. Therefore, the wastewater treatment system in Paracino alone will not be enough to solve the Jagodina problem, as it is necessary to solve the guru. I think it is important for the government to participate and have an integrated approach and try to encourage this kind of co-operation with the participation of the local self-government budget and address such important issues of life. The fourth law, which is also important, shows something that speaks about efficiency in the realisation of these loans. I had this question on the Finance Committee, and I think it's important to hear it out here in public, so it would be important for the public to get to know it. So here we have a bill on the confirmation of contracts and changes and additions of financial contracts under some numbers. The details of these contracts, unfortunately, we can't see from the material here. We see only the essence, and we can guess what it is, which is a passage that says – it checks the procedures according to legal medicines, as provided for in Serbian legislation, will be available to any party that had an interest in obtaining a specific contract and which was damaged or risk being damaged by the alleged violation. So this is about withdrawing the credit of the European Investment Bank, which supports important projects, and there is no dilemma in supporting projects for the construction of clinical centres, municipal and regional infrastructure, Corridor 10 and the public sector, etc. etc. My question was – is this additional supervision of public procurement related to the recent statement by Minister Loncar? It was somewhere in March or April of the month, and in connection with the realisation of the Treaty of the Clinical Centre in Nis, and one of the projects supported by the European Investment Bank was precisely on the project. Minister Lonchart, I don't want to speak and interpret his words, but I can read what he said at that time, said that Nisa patients are waiting for the publication of individuals and the combination they're making. It's his dictionary. So, along with the title, he says: “For Nisha’s pains my head, they looked me in the eye and lied. ” So, according to him, the works of March 27th were to be completed, but we saw and heard his accusations at the expense of those who realized both his doubts and his testimony in the way that the project was carried out. I want to ask you, Madam Minister, is that one of the reasons? Is this the only one, perhaps from more, that the representatives of the European Investment Bank now want from us such a clause that will give them insight into the realisation of the tenders? We also see the way this clinical center was designed in my city. Of course I'm looking forward to it, but the way the project was obviously required to be redesigned now or to tear down walls, to enter magnetic resonance, because it could not be assumed that this type of equipment would be purchased and that it would now be possible to re-enter such equipment. So, I am sorry that Minister Vujovic is not here, because these issues are indistinguishable from the analysis that we have somewhere in the previous debate. It's a matter of public debt, because this is about new responsibilities. We needed it, and in the discussions on the budget for four years I asked the finance minister that what his legal obligation, the government's legal obligation, present a clear plan on how Serbia will reach a legal level of 45% of its public debt participation in Serbia's GDP. Once again, in 2012, in July, public debt amounted to 14.7 billion. After raising that debt in September, when Finance Minister Dinkic raised two billion, that year ended with 17 billion and something, 17,5 almost. So we're here, and that's the first year that's exceeded that percentage of 45%. We don't have a presentation of that plan. We heard the president now, yesterday in a statement said our goal is to reach Mastricht, says 60%, now we are at 62% of GDP. Our question is...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26397	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26398	... We are talking about Serbian laws here, and the Serbian law says 45%, the European Parliament says... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26399	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26400	A few important information. We'll start with the Transport Community. Since you stated that the Transport Community Memorandum was signed in 2003/04. years and that's actually credit, okay if you think so, DS. I'll tell you that since 2003, in 2004, a contract that's been in effect... I hope that it will happen when Parliament adopts this Treaty on the Transport Community and only then do we practically begin to say that we have the Transport Community of the Southeast European countries. For reasons why this was not before, not now talking about reasons in other countries, but let's talk about Serbia that is central, no one in the EU believed in 2004 that then the governments in Serbia would deal with the EU issue. Everything you said about Serbia was against Serbia. You promised European integration, and in reality you didn't do it. You promised Corridor 10 2004 and 2006, and in reality there was no story about Corridor 10. By the way, just for your information, while we're talking, the Gredile ravine is all about it. You promised, among other things, that you would work, that you would bring national legislation into line with EU directives, so none of this happened, because if you did, it would have been a contract long before, and we wouldn't have to make laws, spend time on it, but maybe we would have done other things. Next, you mentioned Ub – Lykovac. I have to say one thing and I'll spend a few minutes on it. I don't want to use the deaths of people on Ub-Likovac and use it at this time in parliament. There were concrete barriers, the D.A.'s doing his job, let them say what happened at the end. Did someone move the concrete barrier or didn't? But the Ub-Lykovec question is completely different. One is the story of security, i.e. the story of a car accident that someone entered the road that was closed and where there were concrete obstacles, and there was a completely different story and a separate story about Ub-Lajkovec and the responsibility of this government for the closure, i.e. the fact that you say when the construction of Ub-Lajkovec started, means during the ruling of the DS, and that it was completed in November 2014. It is true that it began, therefore, during the reign of the DS. It is true that it ended on 27 November 2014. Then when the performers came looking for 11. The annex to be signed and thus functioned since 2000 and beyond when we talk about road construction and that is why Serbia does not have hundreds of kilometers of cars – roads, because some agreements have been made in some unusual ways. There were roadways from the field to a field like Ub-Lykovac, 12.5 kilometers. It's true, too, that they signed a lot of annexes, because it was 11. Annex, when we're talking about Ub-Lykovac. It is true that someone has decided, and someone is the minister and prime minister of the government at that time in 2009 when a decision was made to build Ub-Lajkovec. So then the government decided to build the Ub-Lajkovac road 12.5 kilometers in Corridor 11 from field to field, knowing that there is no and there will be no road, there is not one single document, therefore, from Obrenovac to Ub, knowing that there is nothing going on between Lajkovec and LJg, but, behold, they have decided to spend 70m euros from the budget, to build that road, to give the job directly to domestic companies, that they have no supervision for several months on that road, that means they don't have a company that controls what they really do, and then the situation happens to sign 11. Annex, to extend roads, etc. I believe and hope that the authorities will determine that, we'll see. The responsibility is for those who have unqualityly built the road, for those who were investors at that moment, for those who were performers, for those who were surveillance. It's a shame for one country, it's a shame for our companies, it's a shame for all of us to have the way the clay was put in, that we have a path where the humidity of these materials was 40%, it should be 20%. So it's so organized that I really think it's a shame for everyone. It doesn't work for anyone. No one likes it, but there is no responsibility, gentlemen, the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in that sense. That's the result of the work of some before us. When I talk about what you've done or what someone's done before, I'm not saying it because I'm just saying what you've done and what we've done, because somehow we're all one citizen and citizen, we're Serbia, but I'm saying that the citizens know what we're coming from, what we've continued. We've moved on to three miles of rehabilitated railroads. We continued, or inherited, and we had to move on with the tracks where it went 35 kilometers an hour. We went on with Corridor 10 and 11 where we had the field in the field or we had it that there were no workers at all on Corridor 10. It's all where we had to go. When you talk about borrowing again and talking about loans, I'm going to mention it one more time, because it's also data that's true. In 2012, all the grace periods of all the loans you took, otherwise taken at very high interest rates, according to conditions that were disastrous for us, the grace periods, therefore, the time when the credit was not paid, because of those who do not understand it, then expired - at that time the government of Serbia and the state had to pay very high interest on the huge, hundreds of millions of euros in debt to Serbia. Well, she didn't owe it to Serbia's SNS, she just owed it to the DS government. These are the truths, and these were the reasons why we had to raise the state from what it was, and that is, we were in front of bankruptcy. We run a very conservative fiscal policy, and it is seen, therefore, from every budget, from everything we do. So when we decide to borrow, let's say a loan with the Chinese "EM" bank, we take care of it, we don't take credit, we don't ratify it before we know we're going to start spending it. Also, you asked for car-road shares, regional roads, local roads, whatever, there's not a single share of the road we're doing, which we've let in traffic that doesn't have, not just a building permit. So there's no beginning of the work unless there's a building permit that implies the completed expropriation before, and there's no road in use that doesn't have a valid license. So that's how we do it because we know that the money we spend we can't afford, like some people did, take credit, then he stands and then we just start doing a spatial plan, doing expropriation, doing project-technical documentation. No, when we took the loan, it was used. So, if we ratify, that is, if parliament ratifys this Bill on the Treaty of Financing of the "EM" Bank for the first part of modernisation and construction of the two-way line Belgrade Center – Stara Pazova, then there is an additional approval from the "EM" bank, which is waiting for at least until the new year. After that, we can only spend that money. We start work next week, 28th starts work on that first section. Artists have been selected. It's all done. At that moment, we'll wait until January and start spending money. This applies, for example, to Surčin – Obrenovac. So, Surchin – We did not start working until we really prepared everything, and the documentation was completed, we performed a building permit and we only opened the works with it. That's how the government is responsible, and that's how decisions are made. When we make strategic decisions, we take care of Serbia in five, 10, 20 years. We don't build our way out of the field if we know it won't be for the next 10 years, but we try and make sure that we round up one continent and know what our priorities are. You also mentioned here, when you spoke of urgency and why this contract today and how this contract today, then you said that because of the continuing instability in the state, we now have this contract by emergency procedure. No, I don't. First of all, from the moment the English version was signed in Trieste of all the signatories of this treaty, each country itself, but the EU translated it into languages, national languages. It was only when everyone was brought in, not us, not the signatories' countries, but the EU, when everyone signed it, that only then came to every country, to every government, and then to every parliament. So on 9 October, Serbia received a translation of the text in Serbian. We gave it immediately in the procedure and on 26 October was adopted at a cabinet session and we then referred already to the urgency of this Transport Community Treaty, simply to explain why, among other things, it is not just a matter of ministerial councils, but it is also a matter and the seats of the Secretariat in Belgrade of the Transport Community itself. It really has nothing to do with stability and instability. So we don't work under conditions of instability. We're a stable state, a stable economy, a stable government, a politically stable country, and ultimately, we couldn't get that Secretariat's headquarters if we weren't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26401	Right on the replica Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26402	This can already look like a dialogue, and I think you misunderstood when I was talking about translation. I was talking about this law in which it is completely illogical that a translation error is found in such a way that in one part, the English version speaks of the way to Obrenovac, and that in the Serbian version it speaks of the railway and that according to Old Paz. That's what I was talking about, and you gave me the wrong answer to this analysis. I think it's important to mention that truth because we're talking about the truth. You have it, and I'll try to say it myself, and that's verifiable and I think it's clear through clear data, official data on the website of the state authority of the Republic of Serbia. So you were talking about what you found. Because we keep going back to what some others found. In 2000, the DS government found public debt participation in a 201.2% gross social product. You're talking about not having enough rapid European integration. We found GDP at seven billion euros. Now it's 33, 34, 35 billion, and already in 2008 it was four times bigger. So that's real data and that's some results. Some government at the time did something and moved the state four times better. What is also important, in 2012, check in the budget, soon the budget of the Republic of Serbia will enter the interest you are talking about, the enormous interest amounting to 400m euros. You know what they're like for 2017, 1.2 billion. So how did the amount of interest increase so much if the expensive loans were exchanged with cheap loans? So that's real data, check it out, and I want to talk to you like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26403	The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26404	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, a respected minister, respected colleagues from the Ministry, I hope that my discussion will be in this spirit, a constructive dialogue that we have today in the Assembly, unlike the previous days, when the atmosphere was something different. I, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, will talk about two contracts, which contribute to the further development of transport in the Republic of Serbia, not reducing of course the importance of the other two contracts, the loan contract for the development of small and medium-sized municipalities in the area of municipal services and the law on the confirmation of a financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. She'll talk to my colleagues later. In order to understand the importance of the regional transport community and the need for regional transport integration, we must first and foremost understand the EU's transport policy, which is primarily one of the most important and perhaps the first policies established in the establishment of the European Economic Community. It is a condition for the effective functioning of the EU common market. Its regulation covers all types of traffic, includes technical, social and security standards and has contributed greatly to the economic development of both Member States and regions in Europe. It is also important because of the two data that I have encountered, that transport represents 10% of the EU's GDP-based wealth and what is particularly important for us as MPs is that almost 10% of the EU's legal flows are regulations in the field of transport policy. In this modern age, the European Union is trying to establish a modern transport system that must be both safe and accessible and economical. On the other hand, the increase in transport, i.e. freight and passenger transport, the EU insists on mobility that needs to be sustainable, energy-efficient and environmentally responsible. In parallel with this policy, a new EU infrastructure policy is also being built, which envisions the formation of "correspondents" by 2030, which includes nine main corridors. The goal of this policy is transformation, connection, you're in the process of debate today and you said, east – west of Europe. It involves improving the infrastructure of border crossings, improving each type of traffic and what is extremely important for the development of transport is to introduce new transport models. As far as Serbia is concerned, the EU's core transport network is a regional core network, still in 2015 and as a strategically well-positioned, Serbia is a key transport node, both for the integration of the Balkan states and for the integration of the Balkans and Southeast Europe with Europe. In recent decades, Serbia has taken very concrete steps in making projects of national and regional importance with a focus on intensifying inter-connections, not only transport but also in energy and intensively working towards the achievement of European standards on transport policy under negotiating Chapter 14, which is extremely important for us MPs. We know, since in the past few years we have adopted roof laws for different types of traffic. In line with the Strategy for the Development of Transport of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia's aspirations to establish a balanced economic development that includes cross-border co-operation, this contract on the establishment of a transport community is a step towards establishing better neighbourly relations and regional stability, as one of the key priorities of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. The integration of the Western Balkans region and the European Commission in the Western Balkans format, and the integration agenda is part of a Berlin process that is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia. What encourages is that the vast majority of MPs, whether they come from the ranks of the opposition or the position, sees this process as important for Serbia and the whole region for the sake of stability and economic development. This concept of regional transport network has been mentioned several times. It's not a newspaper. In 2004, as one of the signatories in Luxembourg, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding for the development of the basic regional transport network and thus set up a transport Observatory for Eastern Europe, which has promoted the development of a regional transport network and capacity building for investment. Certainly, by meeting in Trieste this year, when this contract was signed, he actually got a formal legal character. One of the key tasks under this contract is the removal of physical barriers, the establishment of infrastructure where there is no, the improvement of new infrastructure, in order to move goods and services smoothly. Of course, increasing traffic safety on both roads and railways, all in order to make business a safer business. This Treaty also includes the preparation of five-year development plans for a comprehensive core network and priority projects of regional interest, as well as systematic coordinated development of transport infrastructure, not only railways and roads but also inland waterways. What's extremely important is making container terminals. With this in mind, I would point out that by defining this basic and comprehensive network of the Western Balkans, all the key and infrastructure facilities and projects that Serbia has proposed have been accepted, during multiple meetings of ministers just in the format of the Western Balkans six. What is important for citizens to know, this contract provides for an increase in investment and, of course, the withdrawal of grants from the EU fund to improve transport infrastructure in Serbia and the region. Regardless of the different messages from Brussels on further enlargement from when and how, whether in 2025 or earlier, will we individually or collectively join the EU, this concept and this initiative and similar initiatives should start already from the Republic of Serbia, because the Republic of Serbia is a leader in the region. The ratification of the contract by all parties confirms the political will of the entire region to become part of the transport space and transport networks of Europe. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support this contract. The loan agreement, for the modernisation project, reconstruction of the Hungarian Serbian railway link, is another contract that is in line with the integration of the transport system of the Republic of Serbia, Southeast Europe into the EU transport network. This project of reconstruction and modernisation of Belgrade's centre – Stara Pazova in the length of 35km is part of a wider project of modernisation and reconstruction of the Belgrade railway line – Budapest. It is a strategically important infrastructure project, not only for Serbia, but also for Hungary. The share is also important for our strategic partners, of course the Republic of China, because it is headed towards a transit corridor between the euro area and the Central and Western European states and the third maritime arms of the new silk road and the Euro-Asian express rail network. The terms of credit, which we also heard about in the debate, are favourable. Fixed interest rate of 2%, with a maturity of 20 years, including a period of start of five years. If we consider that this transit route via Hungary participates in the overall external trade ratio of the Republic of Serbia with over 65%, we can say that it is a single development loan that is indirectly invested in the economic development of the northern part of Serbia, which further confirms the necessity and justification of the support that we will give as a parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26405	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26406	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, after a full-day debate, today we are talking about contracts and agreements that are primarily in the interest of Serbian citizens. They are the result of the well-leaded responsible foreign policy of Serbia and by the president of the state, Mr Vukic and by the prime minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic and all the ministers in the Serbian government. When you see that for the past five years some agreements that have been signed between the two governments, such as the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Government of Serbia, have caused and caused such programmes as we do today, and as you can see that realising the transport network of Southeast Europe in which Serbia is one of the headquarters when we are talking about our region at all, and when you see that in the future Belgrade will be the centre of traffic and infrastructure policy, then it is one recognition for such policy-making over the past five years. Therefore, what we also had on the Committee today to hear from the legislators of these laws, i.e. that implies ratification of these agreements, and what we had heard today in the debate, I realized that the representatives of the opposition would also vote for these agreements, because behind those statements that said that some of the first steps had taken in 2003, 2004 and 2005, and that they had no time to finish such responsible jobs, apparently show their willingness to vote in the day, as well as the SNS to support these legislative proposals. What is important is to say about the Transport Community, which is that a question has been raised, in general, between Serbia and the Transport Community, the issue of fus note. What should be said is that the decision of each government and the instructions that arrive for all international contracts by the foreign ministry says that it is an obligation in each contract to stand a fus note that practically obliges signatories to respect the integrity and territorial integrity and independence of the Republic of Serbia on the issue in general by KIM. So, it's not at all controversial, but simply those who want to highlight this topic and take it out of context, when it comes to this contract, want to gain some cheap political points in the assembly debate, and therefore I don't think we should pay that much attention to it, because it's obvious that we're going to meet some Belgrade elections, and then some future candidates want to be profiled as policyholders even though it doesn't stand. What needs to be said today, and this is very important, is that when it comes to loans related to the German KfW Bank, they say that supplying the sewerage of certain cities, not Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, but that cities in Serbia are dependent on daily lives of people, show one great responsibility and ministries in this government, that it is necessary to invest in solving the daily problems of citizens of these small cities. Now it's the turn of kickinda, where it's found that there's arsenic particles in the water, and in Paracino we're talking about so much, we need to invest, and we have asbestos tubes and cement found in the water. Then we also have 70% water spillage from the water network when it comes to cities like Vrbas and non-quality water, and therefore we need to build new water factories. But what is shown today on the basis of this discussion is that there are no opportunities to lead a responsible policy unless you are considering infrastructure projects that are important for the daily lives of people in Serbia, and therefore it is very important that the strategy adopted, which is practically the reconstruction and modernisation of the water and sewerage networks by 2034, when it comes to Serbia, shows that major financial resources are needed to make Serbia truly more quality of life in every respect. What is important to say, when it comes to this contract, is that only on 19 May 2017 was a report adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that report submitted by KfW Bank, which means that a large number of feasibility studies and projects were needed, in order to pass at all on the credit committees of this bank and that the funds were withdrawn. But when we talk about these projects and cities at all, we can't help but notice that by 2012, the credit lines have been charged at an interest rate of 6.17%, and that only eight cities have been modernised in this respect, and that in the past five years, 12 cities have had the opportunity to reconstruct and modernise their water and sewerage network, and that the credit lines have now been charged with only 1.1% of interest on an annual basis. This shows one general financial stability of the budget that can guarantee projects like this and the implementation of projects, but also the responsibility of obviously the people who run the ministries, related to infrastructure and those institutions such as the CIP, who can provide the documentation in an adequate way. It should be said that Kikindi has been approved sixm euros for such projects, Vrbas 4.1 and Paracina and Knjizvac 3.45m euros. It should also be said that those who respect us today as we go slow and do nothing, obviously with their local self-governments that ruled for 20 years, and even today rule, did not have time to replace asbestos pipes, but because of that they had time to build bridges of 600m euros, they had time to build certain infrastructure projects with optical cables that had exclusively enriched their private companies of the same local self-governments. So, obviously, the responsibility is nevertheless to the SNS which is seriously considering citizens' problems. When we talk about this fourth agreement on changes and additions relating to nine contracts with the European Investment Bank, it is obvious that an attempt to place in the public opinion is one thing that says that our mistake is when we talk about changes and additions to the contract, and it is not said that the European Investment Bank had a procedure that does not recognise complaints in the procurement process. So far, we have had the procedure of the European Investment Bank, which gives the green light to dissipate public procurement relating to goods and services needed for certain project implementation, and these projects, let's say, phase "A", phase "B" of the project of building clinical centres, local infrastructure, roads, then modernisation of schools, then security in traffic, improvement of facilities related to judicial institutions. When it comes to, say, certain and dissatisfied performers, who took part in the procurement process, have the right to object, and we invest in our regulations in the Commission for the Protection of Providers in Public Procurement Procedures. There is no legal possibility, simply the European Investment Bank does not recognise the model of complaints that it would respond to such a thing, and a commission within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not have the legal opportunity to send adequate answers to such a thing. Of course, this has led to the halting of the implementation of certain projects and, of course, that the Ministry of Finance has found a way to simply solve these problems with certain changes and additions to such problems, which the bank itself has, along with the ministry that implements these projects, the Ministry of Infrastructure, so that the legal basis of the commission can respond to such complaints. This is essentially what we want to speed up the implementation of these projects, and of course this is always reflected in the process of withdrawing funds from the European Investment Bank, and this shows essentially that we really respond as a state to problems and shows a high degree of responsibility. That is why I would not continue to owe, but I think it is in the interest of the Serbian state that all those political parties and all those entities, which exist as independent MPs, support something like this, because it is in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26407	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) If not, we move to debate in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26408	Thank you. Dear Minister with Associates, at the beginning I will join those colleagues who have expressed dissatisfaction over the shortcut of the scheduled session, within 24 hours, although some of the laws that have been on the agenda today have been in the assembly procedure for several months, especially if they have such significance, as the minister stated. Of course, the minister is not responsible for this situation, but should understand the frustration of a part of the MPs because of such behaviour, which unfortunately became a rule. Even at this time, the President of the Assembly went one step further, asking herself to conduct a joint single search of these four draft laws. Here, here we see – the president of the National Assembly, MP Maja Gojkovic. I will agree with the minister that it is very important that our country will finally receive the seat of an important regional organisation as a consequence of the Treaty establishing the Transport Community. Unfortunately, so far, this has not been the case, which I also turned my attention to the foreign minister last year, but we have been missing seats for some organisations of other countries, such as Albania. Also, he would agree with the minister that crossing barriers in the region is necessary, but I don't see how these barriers overcome the periodic and alternating tensions with neighbours. That is why I would call on the minister to use his unquestionable political influence more strongly that the government and the ruling party do not raise additional barriers to neighbours, especially because, if I am not mistaken, they have not yet participated in raising these barriers. In addition to the above, the minister and I can also agree that it is extremely important that Serbia has a central position in the Western Balkans, even when it comes to infrastructure, but it is necessary to look beyond the South East European region, where it would be incomparably more important to have that leadership role. But here we are in a race with time, at least when it comes to road traffic, precisely because of Corridor 4, which also mentioned the minister, who, through Bulgaria and Romania, connects Turkey with Central and Western Europe, all the way to Dresden. Today, however, first of all, I will talk about two laws, and especially about the Chinese loan for the reconstruction of the railway between Belgrade and Budapest. The project was seriously discussed at the summit of four prime ministers, China, Hungary, Macedonia and Serbia, held in Belgrade in December 2014. A number of agreements, including the one on the high track, were reached on that occasion, and Serbia has promised maximum speed in designing and building, in order to revive the railway by June 2017. Just a year later, on 23 December 2015, the then prime minister, and the current president, at a ceremony promotion of the Modernisation and Construction Project at the train station Novi Sad, said it was agreed that the railway must be opened in 2018. To quote: “It is a great thing for our country. We'll finish everything in two and a half years." By now, we've all gotten used to this period being one of the favorites used by the president to announce the completion of different projects. Therefore, the question arises as to what is the cause of such a delay for just one of a series of unfulfilled promises, which only confirm the incompetence and irresponsibility of this authority. No one has disputed the enormous need for Serbia's modernisation, including infrastructure, but is being questioned by the way and the pace at which the modernisation is being implemented, regardless of all the thanks of the minister. Also, no one is questioning the need to establish a better relationship with a major force, such as China, but it would certainly be good to consider and assess the benefits and damages of each contract carefully, such as this. Some other countries, also on the map of the largest global project "One Belt-One", mentioned by the minister, have recently done so in connection with much larger and more significant projects. Because of the unfavourable conditions the Chinese side insisted on, Pakistan has withdrawn from a $14 billion deal to build the Diamer Basha hydropower plant in Kashmir, which should cover the energy deficit of four and a half thousand kilowatts a year. In a similar way, Nepal, which withdrew from a similar two and a half billion - dollar hydroenergy project. I see, above all, three basic negative consequences of signing such a contract: limiting competition, eliminating Serbian businesses and possible negative financial effects. Something more detailed about the above remarks. First, it's a kind of contract with a privileged supplier of Chinese Export-Import Bank gives us credit to hire Chinese firms to implement that project using Chinese materials and equipment. What is the problem is that competition is limited, because only Chinese firms can participate in the tender, and the tender may not be, but the Chinese side will set itself up by the performer, although it is not seen from the Loan Treaty, but will be part of a commercial contract that will later be signed. In addition, the problem is that it is very difficult, i.e. Unable to know what is the real market price of these works that could be achieved in an open tender. Such a contract may have a meaning in the conditions of high interest, but in the current conditions, when interest rates on the world market are record low, there remain far-reaching adverse effects that the restriction of competition has on the price, as well as other conditions of a commercial contract that will subsequently be concluded. If we were in charge of international financial institutions, competition would not be limited in any way, and foreign contractors would normally hire domestic subcontractors, i.e. employ Serbian businesses and workers and obtain domestic materials and equipment to the extent that they are available on our market. In this case, the work will likely be performed exclusively by Chinese workers, as was the case with the Zemun-Borch Bridge. With that in mind, even possible differences in interest rates, it is difficult to compensate for the benefits that our economy would have in the event that the credit would be taken from the European Investment Bank, the IBRD or similar institutions, which, on top of that, prescribes public procurement conditions, tender procedures, as well as, particularly, monitoring quality control. Even when this railroad is finished, given the exodus of expert personnel from the country, because we are the first in the world on brain drain, it may be for those who do not leave the country by then be the last train to leave, if by then this coalition remains in power. Several observations on the German loan bill for the water supply and sewerage programme. First of all, the question arises here why the borrower will be represented by the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, not the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, or the Water Directorate within this Ministry, which has the best insight into the situation in the water industry and can give criteria for selecting settlements in which water supply projects will be financed from this loan. On top of that, the question arises on the basis of which criteria have the municipalities chosen to implement this project?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26409	You're bringing the end, my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26410	I also believe that the amount for the engagement of 7,000-euro experts, representing 43.11% of the loan value, is too high.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26411	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26412	Several important facts, not to be confused, especially regarding this loan with Exim bank for modernization and construction of the two-way line Belgrade centre – Stara Pazova. When we talk about the elimination of domestic producers, that's not true first. So 49% will be hired domestic companies, and as far as the equipment itself is concerned, anything that can be used, or taken from Serbia, will be taken from Serbia. We now had the Resnik-Valjevo track, where only the domestic components were used. I think there was only one part that couldn't be done, but 90% of it was Serbian equipment. When we talk about companies, therefore, domestic companies will work there at 49% and that's important. Another very important thing, this railway is in line, and in agreement, and also in all the contracts that we are working on, any time we talk about another part of the Russian loan, whether we are dealing with this first part of the Chinese loan, is in line with EU directives. In addition, the Serbian government will engage, i.e. the infrastructure of Železnica so-called "Zelznica". a notification body that will check literally any component that is installed or built on a two-wheel line. That's very important, because we want to be part of the world's, or rather, part of the European transport network, or we already are part of it, but we also have to show it through the project that we're doing. So, just do the facts. When we talk about the KfW Treaty, with German KfW, we are now talking about the 17m-euro Treaty and we are talking about four local self-governments. It is very important to know that so far, so from 2013, 2014 to 2017, we have done, or already ended up in local self-governments such as Smederevo, Pančevo, Šabac, Loznica, Sombor, Kraljevo, Sremska Mitrovica, Leskovac, Vranje. So we've already done a lot of things about, that is, the sewerage network, asbestos pipes, water supply. There's every thing, if you're interested, we can give you this table to see. So we continue with these cities. What ends by the end of 2017 is Vršac. Then, Jagodina, reconstruction and replacement of 15.3 kilometers of city network ends in 2018. Also, in 2018, Alexinac ends - four million euros, building a reconstruction of the water treatment plant. The construction of a water-processing plant is then completed in 2018. Also, next year, Triestenik. In 2019, Kruševac and Vranje will go. So that's what's going on, and these are the four local self-governments that we're starting, that's what we've already started to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26413	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26414	Thank you. About responsibility. Most of the debates and MPs who participated both Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers were about who was responsible for what and how to establish a real level of responsibility in the country. It's a theme I look forward to. By collecting what is said about the four draft laws, then I will also try to contribute to who is responsible for what these four laws are on the agenda, who will be responsible for the laws on the confirmation of contracts and agreements being applied and where they are even on our agenda, who is responsible. First of all, I'd like to discuss the responsibility of the government. I very much support Minister Zorana Mihajlovic's position that there is a personal responsibility of a member of the government, and she has proved it by filing a criminal complaint against the other minister, and considering that she has a basis for that and for his associates in relation to the quality of the works performed. What's wrong? It's not a good thing there's no consistency in personal responsibility. So if we share the view that personal responsibility is excellent, then we can't jump to the collective responsibility of anyone. It's never been hard for me to defend what I truly believe and what I think is right. I think collective responsibility, collective guilt doesn't exist, and it's just slander and mocking of people, groups of people, organizations, whatever. It doesn't matter if it's a very popular and inadmissible imposition of collective guilt and responsibility for people living in Serbia, Serbian citizens for war crimes or anything else, but rather responsibility for public affairs held by members of the government. So the consistency in that is easy for me to defend. Then a recommendation to the minister -- if you want to talk about personal responsibility, then be personal responsibilities, because it turns out that we share DS responsibility as collective responsibility for governments in which DS participated with coalition partners who are now SNS coalition partners. In these six years, you won't hear a word of responsibility or guilt from any of our coalition partners, or the SPS, or the SDP of Rasim Ljajic, not even the G17 Plus or the URS, SVM, anyone, because we worked with these people and because we consider it their right to choose another coalition partner to manage public affairs. We now have governments where everyone except DS and your view that personal responsibility is good when it comes to Milutin Mrkonjic, but it is not good when it comes to Diana Dragutinovic, who was finance minister or Mladjan Dinkic, who was finance minister. It's not going both ways. You're unnecessarily lowering your credibility. Fortunately, I don't work on message boxing, I've never worked and I won't, and it's easy for me to defend what I truly believe in, which is that personal responsibility exists. When we introduce this as a practice of having a name and a last name, then maybe we'll start really building a dialogue on the subject, and not on people and on political organisations that we're told about, like DS, just roses, bring it all down on them, it doesn't matter what is true and what isn't, it's popular with our voters. That's the first thing I don't agree with a minister whose request for personal responsibility I support. All the messages you have, even these four laws sent only to your support. That might be legal. I challenge your legitimacy, because this is about Serbia's development and it cannot be decided only by those who voted for you, and who you want quite justifiably to vote for you again. This should be decided by all, and by those who are against because Kosovo writes that and those who know that the Transport Community was built, I was present when it was done, and those who know it's hard to agree a good loan with KFV, who know that KFV is an organisation that only specifically chooses partners, which is the success of the Serbian government, whoever negotiated it. So it's going to turn out to be a total waste at the end. The language discovered it. At one point, the minister said that responsibility is something that voters decide and that voters have decided that we from the DS are responsible in 2012 and that it is necessary for SNS to make a coalition with the same coalition partners. Then you said something, which I reacted to, inadmissible, I mean from the scene, you said -- we got the elections, we got the government, we got the president of Serbia. You don't have a minister, the president of Serbia. I understand if that's your position, but I refuse to understand if that's the message you're transmission, because the president of Serbia is responsible to all Serbian citizens, and to those who vote for him and those who have never voted and will never vote for him. It's a personal responsibility. It's my duty to tell you that. As I say - my government or possibly I say - the government of Ana Brnabic, when I want to criticise it, because I am the opposition to the government, I am not an opposition to Serbia, it is again personal responsibility. What is the responsibility of all of us for the transport community contracts? The agreement on the transport community created by the memorandum was very difficult. In 2003, 2004, 2005, I was in places where CEFTA and the European Energy Community of Serbia and all the agreements we tried to make at least something out of a space that had been destroyed up to a year before by wars, conflicts, crimes, destruction and NATO bombings and our mutual wars in the entire territory of the former Yugoslavia. The dispute over the transport community is not about Serbia's European integration. The dispute over the transport community was to fight for Belgrade to be the headquarters. I am glad that the government of Ana Brnabic is the one who succeeded. The second part of the dispute over the transport community was how to record, how to place Kosovo in all regional contracts. It was a very difficult job for both CEFTA and the European Energy Community and for the transport community, for all the types of regional arrangements we needed. All these arrangements, as well as the Transport Community, were made with EU mentoring and instructions. I would've preferred it if we'd done it ourselves. It would have been much better for me if we had done so without representatives of the EU who had given us the will for regionalism. Every time I hear that some kind of independent move has been taken, I'm glad that it means that people want to take their fate into their own hands. Why is it important for the Transport Community to have its headquarters in Belgrade and why is it important to discuss financing regional projects in the future under this confirmed contract with EU financial institutions? Because it's the future of the region. You know, whenever I'm talking in the region, it's a little bit of a recession again about my responsibility, and when they tell me they're not going to be with these guys, they're not going to forgive these tough words at the expense of Serbia, they're going to say hard words to Macedonia, Bosnia, and whoever had the hard words then I tell them -- by 1990, we had a common market and a common infrastructure and brotherhood and unity instead of pluralism, and we didn't like it, twenty-seven years later we didn't like the same thing. If that's not enough reason to have our own initiative in our own hands and responsibility for what we want from the Transport Community, I don't know what's going to be our reason. The other two laws we talked about, the one concerning the railroad and loans with the Chinese, I hope that with the same amount of personal responsibility you said – 49% of everything will be domestic companies. Because that statement thing is one very awkward thing. People remember what anyone said and then ask, and you always have a ghost from the past that reminds you of what you once said, whether you mean it or not. I rarely use what someone said to remove their credibility, but I use it to try to establish a personal responsibility for the spoken word together. Until you say the words, you rule them. In unspeakable words and your thoughts, you are the master. Once you say them, words rule you. And that's why the former Prime Minister is quoted here, one, the other, the third, the fourth, because the word spoken has weight. And that's why we'll remember here that you said that there were no roads built and that 49% of everything would be by domestic companies. I repeat what I have already said, KfW and the reconstruction of the water network. I wish I had heard the words of praise here for all the people who took part within the government that one such credit for KfW was achieved, and that we are talking about development, based on this loan which is obviously going to be adopted, because the plumbing and sewerage problems that Serbia has in its entire territory. And I'm going to give you an example of what it's like when you talk about personal responsibility, and how when you use "massage boxing" that they're "yellow for everything" and that history begins in 2012. In the first case, we discuss together how long it takes for each part of Serbia to have both sewers and waterways and roads. Is that 2030, is that 2022? How much does that cost? Who's gonna pay for that? When there's no interest in who's going to be in power, it happens in the nature of things, in the elections, but we've never had such a conversation. There have never been any development talks in Serbia. And then we get four laws that are a potential place where we can start talking about development, and instead we talk a little bit about personal responsibility and a little – hit the yellow ones, that's popular. Your will... Nemanja Sarovic: Hit, hit! Here, you've got fans, they're yelling – hit! Don't, colleague Sarovic, it really doesn't make sense! They tell me he's not a colleague, he's a colleague, but he said it doesn't matter. He told my colleague Alexandra Jerkov that it doesn't matter. And that's why I say it doesn't matter. There's a lot of people here who like to say it doesn't matter if it's a man or a woman, so, when it does, it can do it like this. Why am I saying that the development of the topic is primarily for your ministry, but also for other ministries in the government? Because sooner or later we'll get to the point that either someone will come to you from the EU and tell you what your development is, that's what we watched when we had a proposal for a law on dual education, come and said: this is what you need, or we'll sit in this place or wherever we agree and agree on Serbia's choice. There is then a personal responsibility necessary, that there are no stories – like this, we will all, we will now, together, they are, but only that there are talks about which way, which resource and with which probability we can use to develop in Serbia and travel infrastructure. Why don't I talk about the miles that were built then, then or now? Because there will be no more miles, or there will be more if the government has made them with the Democratic Party's coalition partners, and you, but if the government has made them with the Democratic Party's coalition partners and the Democratic Party. It's no use, except pleasure for fans, or measured public opinion research that they like to hear it. We didn't try to tell people in Serbia how to look like a developing Serbia, so we used them that we're dealing with ourselves here, or each other, and not to deal with them, so they're used to, come on, well, let them go, so we'll cheer for these of mine, and I won't root for these, and that's all, I think, the time to volunteer to stop. Well, if we talk about a contract on a transport community, then we know that every single one of us that has an impact on the place where the Constitution and the law are chosen to be chosen to do, to know what to do, to get the seat and everything that has been achieved for the transport community contract really showed results. Why do I say that's necessary? Because I think it's very smart that the minister didn't mention the Berlin process. That shows knowledge. But I can speak critically of the Berlin process. And that's what I'm gonna do. Because the Berlin Process is a kind of substitute for European integration and because the last meeting is planned for, imagine, Great Britain next year, 2018, with ideas that there are plans after that. But it's not a Berlin process where there'll be money from investments or people who will know what we want from infrastructure in their region. From one of the people in the European Union who worked both the Berlin Process and the Transport Community, I heard an anecdote, after asking for advice. He says - we go to each of the republics, and we say: give us ideas for regional projects, and they give us only ideas for their country...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26415	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26416	I ask – and Serbia? He says -- no, Serbia is the only one who has made a step. And I ask you to continue in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26417	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26418	The Transport Community Treaty is important for Serbia, it is important for the region as well, and it is impossible to talk about Serbia's development unless the whole region develops and we do not have at least certain steps called economic growth and political stability in the whole region, etc. When we talk about infrastructure, I mention once again, whether it is transport, energy, municipal infrastructure, it is unusually important that we invest in infrastructure. In this case, when we talk about the Transport Community, a lot of time has passed since the signing of the memorandum to the moment we have now come into a situation to ratify a signed contract, but I deeply believe that everything Serbia has done in recent years, primarily by defining strategic directions where it wants to go in transport, and we want to connect and we want to be an insecure corridor for all, therefore, not a bypass corridor of Serbia, in that sense I believe that we can only benefit from such a contract, and that I am not speaking to the Secretariat of the Transport Community itself. However, when we talk about a railway that is also part of the basic network, it is Corridor 10, the modernisation of the Belgrade railway -- Budapest, yes, 49% is agreed to be a job for our domestic companies. Our task is to create conditions, and when I say our task, I mean the government of the Republic of Serbia's task to create conditions that can be done in Serbia. It is a basic task, in my opinion, to create an ambience, to build in Serbia, to open new companies in Serbia, to employ people. It's our primary task. We did it in this contract. We have succeeded in another new contract that is already being done and that is Surčin – Obrenovac, where we started our work on March 1st. So, 47% are employed domestic companies at the construction of Surcin – Obrenovac. Also, I hope that we will sign a commercial contract in Budapest for a section of the Preljina – Požega highway. Our mission next, we're already working on it, is that the same domestic companies have half or that at least have 49% of their participation. I hope they can achieve that by capacity. Also, when we talk about either kilometers of railways or when we talk about miles of modernized railways or roads built and so on, it's not a question of whether or not we're talking about the ones that are being built or being built, but it's true and it can't be avoided that it was a large number, that there were years, so where some others were in power and they were getting huge citizens' trust, and I think it's a huge responsibility for those who were in power building zero kilometers of highways. That's true, there were no highways built. The fact is, too, that we've released some miles of highways and now these roads are being driven. So they're in use, except for the Ub – Lykovac. Also, several times you mention brass boxing. Maybe it's easier, sometimes, to get a man behind it, so he says I don't talk through the message boxing, where you're told that the "yellows" did everything wrong. No, it's not that at all, but I know what's been waiting for me at the ministry, and I know what infrastructure projects have looked like since 2001,2002. I've seen the duties, I've seen the projects, I've seen how much money has been taken, so we're not in charge, we're in charge, we're in charge. It's not brass boxing, it's true. So, the fact is that we didn't have the final corridors, that we had the promise of everyone, and you took credit for it. And finally, therefore, Aleksandar Vukic was elected president of all citizens and Serbian citizens. As the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the government of the Republic of Serbia of all citizens and citizens of this country. And let me, or I'm sorry, for reminding you that the SNS won that trust and that the SNS and its coalition partners won the election. I don't think I've done any bad things here in parliament. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-23-0.u26419	Thank you. This is what we'd do today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 107 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dejan Radenkovic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Nada Lazic, Ivan Bauer, Muamer Bačevac, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković and Jasmina Karanac. We continue to work on the order of application for a word in the joint, unique search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that today's session are invited to attend: Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Dr. Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance; Miodrag Poledica and Zoran Lakićevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Nenad Milović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Tatjana Jovanovic, Darinka Đuran, Jovanka Atanaković, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Branko Drcalić, Executive Director of Public Debt Management of the Ministry of Finance; Radojko Obradović, Special Advisor of the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure; Marko Blajević, Executive Director of Public Administration in Civil Engineering and Civil Engineering; Minister of Public Affairs of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
