ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall, and that we have conditions for the necessary work. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in the Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 48(3) Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure, you have been sent a request to hold an emergency session with a particular agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the Fifth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, the following Dn e n i d: Proposal for a Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System; Proposal for a Law on Higher Education. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and a Proposal for a Law on Higher Education. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – 14, abstention – one, 25 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Mladen Sarčević, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health; Anamarija Vicek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development; Vesna Nedeljković, Dr Aleksandar Pajić and Prof. Dr. Vesna Mandić, Deputy Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Biljana Lajović, Advisor of Education, Science and Technological Development; Aleksandar Marković, Head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development; Natasa Mujagić and Ljiljana Todorovic, Senior Advisors at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and Vladimir Bojković, an independent advisor at the Ministry of Technological Development at the Ministry of Technology, Education and Technology, Educational Education and Technology. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on the basis of the education and education system and the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education. Before I give my word to the Minister, I would like to inform you that you have received the resignations of the MPs of Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojić and Aleksandra Đurović as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly on the examination of these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same Law, determines the termination of the term of office of these MPs. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time to be elected, to the MPs, Prof. Dr. Milovana Bojić and Aleksandra Djurovic, on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Here you go. I give my word to Minister Mladen Sarčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19551	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament, in a brief address, I will only give the main features of these new laws covering systemic changes in education and higher education. The draft law on the foundation of the education and education system is something that continues to apply to the current law, which was passed in 2009 and which has roots from 2003. Above this bill on the basis of the education and education systems, the concept of the development of the overall education and education system has been approached to adapt to the conditions that take place in the process in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the trends shown in the current law, aimed at general development, improving and transforming education and education in line with the needs of society, achieving the conditions for the realization of the full capacity and potential of each individual, while respecting the traditional values of our education and the educational system, while respecting the need for innovation, reconciliation, acceptance of development trends and European and other developed systems of education. The bill allows a systematic and rational approach to change of the education and education system to look at a comprehensive process, from the beginning to the end of pre-university education, to achieve optimal results in each of the stages of education and education, whether it is education and education to continue education or to enter the process of work. The main reasons for the adoption of such a law are to comply with the new regulations for the smooth functioning of the education and education system, given that there have been many amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Educational, Labour Act, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Inspection, and that a special collective contract for staff and secondary schools and dormitories has been concluded in 2015, and that the Education Strategy in Serbia has been adopted by 2020. Experiences of employees and learning problems in practice and the assessment of employees on the need to adopt new laws and important segments where it is necessary to regulate them in a different way than the existing law, a comprehensive survey has served in educational-experienced institutions in the Republic of Serbia. The use of examples of good practice, experience established on the basis of comparative analysis of education systems in countries in the environment, as well as in other countries that show good results on relatively strong global checks and analyses. The new law offers new solutions that need to contribute to increasing the responsibility of all key factors, participants in an educational and educational system to improve the quality of education and education, to increase the efficiency of all levels of the system and to achieve greater economicity. Some of the most important solutions of the system law on education are the non-definition of general principles, objectives, outcomes and competences, i.e. the definition of key competencies for the whole of life learning and general cross-cutting competences in order to align the principles, objectives, competences, outcomes of European countries that have high achievements in education and education, but also with the Development Strategy by 2020, as well as the establishment of new and amended mechanisms to ensure through the quality of education and training programmes, the regulation of the national framework of education and education, which is the basis and provides only guidance for further development plans and programmes of teaching and learning, self-evaluation, monitoring, independent evaluation of the work of teachers, educators, experts, directors and secretaries, as well as the work of the entire institution based on defined standards of quality and quality education processes. By regulating the registration policy according to the best interests of achieving the rights of the child is a student, and enrolling a child in a preschool institution towards a place of residence, enrolling a pre-grown child in a class that corresponds to his educational, not to an adult level, defining a clear difference between mandatory, electoral, academic activities, and thus introducing a new concept of "time spent by a child in school" instead of burdening students. More precise and clearer professional profiling of the offices of the Institute for the Improving of Education and Education, as well as the Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education is aimed at improving the overall quality of education. Amendments to the provisions relating to the National Education Council and to the Council on Professional Education and Education of Adults by regulating these bodies in a more efficient manner, both as regards jurisdiction and the types of jobs, the time limits for handling, and as regards composition, the number of members and bodies who appoint them. The election of members has been appointed by the government for four years, the number of members has been reduced. The responsibility has become advisory and defined the obligations of co-operation and the preparation of a common common common opinion when considering issues that are within the competence of both councils, thus increasing their efficiency, extends the autonomy of each institution in line with the Development and Education Strategy in Serbia by 2020. That's what they're called. Pedagogical autonomy, the autonomy of teachers, educators and professional associates, while defining the proper responsibility of all actors involved in the institution, in the work and who work quality to gain that additional autonomy. By introducing a new modern single education system, not to mention what it will bring, I think it is common knowledge, and also the introduction of a single educational number that will have each enrolled student from preschool to the end of the study. So, the education information system will be perfected and will give clear answers to the general public about the quality and all other values of each institution. A clear definition of the responsibilities and responsibilities of the directors of the institution and of all staff, the arrangement of the composition, competence, responsibilities of the institution's management body, the introduction of greater responsibility, the involvement of parents and other legal agents in the educational-examination process, the work of the institution, as well as the rights and obligations of children and pupils. The responsibility of parents is clearly prescribed. The responsibility of students, teachers and other employees is clearly prescribed. For the sake of child protection where there is no parental responsibility, it is proposed to appoint a student representative, i.e. most often a school psychologist who will be able to help in the process of making quality decisions in the interest of students. More efficient assurance of the quality of teaching profession, and with this the educational and educational process and students' achievements are regulated by the introduction of educational outcomes and trainings that will help teachers plan and achieve better work when there are clear descriptions of what is expected to know, understand and be able to show, or do after a proper level of education and education has been completed. As such, they form the basis for planning work, monitoring and evaluation of education and education. The increased role of professional associates is very important in every institution, in recent years it has been happening exactly the opposite. Establishing a gym, a model that young future teachers can gain practice in schools so that they can get involved more easily in the process of work. It's redefined and more precisely organized so-called. an individual educational plan for children who have difficulty learning and development, because the models so far have remained very rigid to enter everywhere only inclusion, and we have special schools where really this passing to children from one institution is a better solution than an old solution, where only one model and the current solutions include at all costs. Of course, it's all in agreement with the profession. Systematic definition and improvement of ways and forms of student evaluation and advancement, determination of educational and disciplinary procedure, introduction of socially useful and humanitarian work when the situation arises that the student has not done his job properly. More security and other reasons on this matter have been elaborated in detail. The introduction of the phasing out of a license because there was a problem for people who were easily deprived of a license to remain without a job for life, and we established processes that serve as a part of the gradual categorization, but also with the waiting for the court to make a final decision which has not been the case so far. It's a different choice for the director of the facility. In the way it appears now, the government or the ministry, not just the minister, because he's a figure of speech here, that's the responsibility not to choose bad executives and then try to treat it with long processes, we go to demands for high competences for people who will run institutions. If the procedure has passed all the facts, from the collectives themselves, the competitions, the school board, the local self-government, the province, we do not see that it bothers as in many European countries, especially in Germany that only the minister, or teams that will look at it and give some of this now and more significant verification to the case. So far, it's just a case of signing it, without affecting and deepening the process. Also, it's clearly defined the director's resolution. A lot of weight has been placed in the law on the role of directors, because it is the basic figure of which depends on the process of quality and work in institutions. The director was predicted to do the teacher's work with a small percentage, as well as the high-school deans do, and we don't want that call to be professionalized, but that when they return to school, they can do it very well. Of course, it was designed and supervised by such work of directors with special teams. The formation of educational training centres is a very important topic because we already have here in practice some phenomena that we want to legalise in 12 cities and that network will spread, centers for professional training of teachers who can and are partial centres for the promotion of science and other processes. If high education makes sense to extend the working age of employees somewhere, in education it certainly makes sense that we can't because of the low birth rate, the teacher's number of classes falls, so the upper limit of retirement is 65 years. Now we have nearly 900 people in the system who don't want to retire, and they've been working for over 65 years. We have clearly agreed with the unions the policy of taking over employees, and that is something that we have regulated in this working group and subgroup that is already on the ground and here is the second year that works successfully. We have a common goal of hiding jobs, so they appear to be first applied by people who have lost their jobs, like so-called. Technological surpluses, because we have one big problem, which is 17,000 people in the system who have a temporary job status because of a ban on employment under the law that regulates it. So we're just going to have this category for a long time, and we really need to legalize. I think that through the debate we're going to talk about everything and I'm going to give you a brief look at why it's important that we also talk today about the draft law on higher education. You know for a fact that the last law was in force in 2005 and that there were many amendments and additions. Mostly for similar reasons, which is the biggest reason and the most common reason was to define the level of points, which the student, or student, must achieve in order to enter the year per budget. The need for certain things to be improved and brought into line with the law and strategy for the development of higher education in Serbia in 2011, as well as other regulations in the field of education, on the protection of personal data and the financing of the public sector, and that new and advanced legislative solutions are identified in the face of problems. The main objectives of adopting a new law on higher education are to improve, continuously bring European standards into line in the control system and ensure quality in higher education, increase the relevance of higher education for both the economy and society in general, acquire functional skills and competences, increase the employability of finished students in the country and abroad. Improving the information system in the area of higher education, as well as continuing monitoring of the performance of the higher education system. At the same time, the proposal for a law on higher education ensures that the development of higher education continues to be based on the coherence and principles formed through European space and higher education, with respect for institutional autonomy and academic freedoms, with the provision of full participation of students, as well as teaching staff of higher education institutions, scientific, professional public and employers in creating a higher education space in the Republic of Serbia. The new principles of high education laws are better linked to university education, improving co-operation with employers and businesses, and innovative entrepreneurial components that will have a completely different dimension in higher education. Consistency with labour market needs, as well as the protection of intellectual property in knowledge transfer processes and new provisions on academic integrity. The main goal is to create opportunities through the law for the education of creative young people, who will gain knowledge, to be adopted throughout their lives, and to allow for better international openness of the education system. Members of the National High Council, which is now 21, we propose at 17. This is proposed exclusively by the academic community through a university conference and a higher school academy conference, and the government appoints members on the basis of these proposals. So far, the government has proposed and appointed even a third of its members. The establishment of a national body for accreditation and quality check on higher education is one of the most significant newspapers in the proposal for a new roof law on higher education. This body forms a government for the longest two years since the adoption of this law with the property of a legal entity financed by its own resources, which has its own authorities, an expert body, an accreditation commission, a quality check. This solution provides a higher level of competence for the accreditation body, work independence, self-sustainability, and fully equal membership in international associations such as EKAR and ENKA. Unsatisfactory with the so far solution of the body for accreditation, it forms so-called. An appeal commission where everyone who wants to express one of their own, which he says -- revolt or appeal, will be able to come true. Since "NAT" will have its own professional services, it is prescribed that an accreditation request will be considered only when complete, which has been notified by the higher school institution by a conclusion delivered within 30 days to complete the application. When a complete request has been formed, it shall be sent to the consignees. A deadline within which "NAT" must make a decision of accreditation reduced from 12 to nine months. The possibility of a higher education institution being able to amend or withdraw a work permit when external control and quality, i.e. inspection supervision, determines that it does not meet the conditions for the performance of the law. Short study programs are being introduced, as the economy has given us a clear signal that it is very necessary, the former so-called. motor engineers, how industry, agriculture, other processes. Studies with work again is something that we once had in the old tradition, which allows many people to also work, to continue their studies and to have lifelong learning. Of course, they are provided with much longer deadlines to carry out these procedures. What the students of course are most interested in, is the number of points that the student will have to achieve in the current school year in order to obtain a condition to finance from the budget, which is 48 SPB points, instead of the 60 points so far envisaged, of course depending on the number of students who have 60 and below, this is the possible lower limit. We took special care of students with disabilities and determined significant affirmative measures, as well as the study of the Roma population. The right to higher education comes from all citizens, young people who have graduated from high school and graduated from high school. So, the state's graduation is divided into general, artistic and professional, so also three years of schooling predicts the process of grad schooling, competence through work, and then approaching studies. The papers are senior lecturers who teach in vocational studies. A lecturer outside of working relationship, i.e. an industrial lecturer, is being introduced to a cooperative call – an assistant with a doctorate. The paper is also a new category, which is the university manager and is the need for certain businesses to continue, as well as management, funding and all other general problems of the university to be shared and more professional and better done. The authority of the higher education institution, the rector, the dean, the director, is elected for three years with the possibility of an extension of the mandate. Student parliament members are elected instead of one, for two years, as this practice has so far proved to be inappropriate. The bill also introduces new forms of co-operation and higher education with the economy. So, the National Council for Higher Education has an obligation to meet at least twice a year with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. A new body is introduced, which is called the advice of employers, which plays a very important role in policy-making, teaching, plans and programmes and accreditation procedures that institutions want to achieve and connect to the economy. This is very important. It is prescribed that in order to commercialise scientific results, artistic creation and inventions, a higher education institution can be the founder of a company, where the profit obtained belonging to a higher education institution can be used exclusively to improve the performance of a higher education institution. The possibility has been introduced for the University to carry out innovative work and provide infrastructure support for the development of innovation and commercialisation of the results of scientific research. In this regard, the purpose of the funds provided by the founder of transfer, knowledge and technology activities has also been expanded. It is doubtless that the unifying of educated, scientific – research innovation activities at higher education institutions will bring judgment to the benefit and economy of the Republic of Serbia, so that higher education institutions will be able to offer innovation and knowledge at more competitive prices than they could get from abroad. The diploma of higher education and the addition of diplomas is cancelled by an independent higher education institution, if it is signed by an unauthorized person, if the holder of the diploma has not fulfilled all the test obligations, if he has not met the conditions for enrolment in studies of the first, second or third degree, and if the final master's work, i.e. the doctoral dissertation is not the result of independent student work. I end up, the minister then, if it isn't done by a higher school institution, he has an obligation to do so on official duty. We also return to the category of single educational number, a unique information system that is also high, as well as a dokademic now one reality and a strong need, and a number of other things that we will through the debate on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19552	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Here you go, Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19553	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Committee on Education and Science discussed both draft laws thoroughly and supported the proposals in principle. True, pointing to the need to pay greater attention to a number of things that are of great importance for the future of education, especially for higher education, and above all to the recommendations that we have from European Quality Verification Associations, where it is insisted on the need to eliminate the possibility of conflict of interest, because so far we have had the practice of actually having the employees of individual universities decide on the fates of other universities, or which university will receive, which university will not receive accreditation. So here we have a proposal where a kind of step in view is made. So, by establishing an accreditation body, we have responded somewhat to this need, this proposal, however, not to the end. Only the existence of commissions within the body leaves the possibility of having similar abuses in the future, so there were voices and I believe that they will come to an understanding that through the amendments these shortcomings will be removed. Also, on academic freedom, or academic freedoms, it is very important to further work on this subject, because so far we have had a very general definition of academic freedoms, which mainly concerned academic freedoms of the university institution itself, or college, while it should be more significant to work on the fact that academic freedoms are poured over to all, therefore, scientific workers, i.e. teachers and teachers. It's something more important to work on. What has also drawn attention to the committee itself is the issue of a triangle that has been significantly dominated by strategic decision-making in the field of higher education, which is the relation of the University Conference, the Higher Education Council and the Accreditation Commission. No matter what changes we have now, where certain powers are given to the government that appoints one body, another body, if we look closely, we actually have full control of the so-called. the academic community, which is, on the one hand, an interesting community, where we have mostly several people of the highest influence in these institutions who are actually making proposals at the University Conference, and these proposals are accepted on the Higher Education Council or in the Accreditation Body, or in the Accreditation Commission, whether they are about the appointment, selection or decision-making of key decisions or decisions in the second or third degree. So that's something that we point to on the board and what we're also going to put our focus through the amendments. I believe that there is this willingness both from the ruling majority and from the majority who attended the committee, that we will be walking until the end of this adoption process of the law to remove certain shortcomings, which is the goal, that we have the best possible law. As for the draft law on the basics of education and education, there were fewer objections. There have been discussions on the appointment of directors, what various arguments have been made, but what is the urgency of this bill in this segment is that they actually try to solve problems more effectively, because so far we have had huge problems where the directors, as we say, as independent institutions mainly in relation to some local self-government were their own absolute rulers in these schools, where many problems could not be solved. With all this in mind, after the vote, the Committee also supported the proposal for a law on higher education in the principle and the draft law on the basis of the education and education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19554	Thank you. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19555	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SVM Group – The Party for Democratic Action welcomes the adoption of a new Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I would especially like to commend the fact that there has been a public debate, a series of lengths, meetings, polls, with all the interested entities, which is actually a very good preparation of this bill that is now in front of us. The fact is that there have been many objections and that the largest number of objections by national councils of national minorities, including the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, as well as the Regional Secretariat for Education, Administration, Regulations and National Minorities, have entered the proposal. With this, we believe that from the point of view of the right to education, education of national minorities and the competence of national councils, this proposal is absolutely fine. There is still a little more amendment intervention in the province's jurisdiction. We also have one amendment concerning national councils. I believe these amendments will be accepted, since they are indeed about existing legal solutions. In particular, our first amendment concerns compliance with the applicable National Minority Councils Act, which also says that the National Council can establish educational institutions, education, student and student standards and exercise the rights of founders, either independently or together with the Republic, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government or other legal persons. The current Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System contains this provision, so that the institution can establish a Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, a national council of the national minority and a second legal or physical person. As I mentioned, the next set of several amendments refers to the province's jurisdiction. The reason for their submission is to comply with the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Namely, according to the so-called. The omnibus law provides that the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities, in the field of pre-school and primary education and education, in accordance with the law, gives or refuses to agree on a decision to elect an institution director, as a trusted job. It is prescribed that the AP Vojvodina, through its bodies and in the area of secondary education and education, gives or refuses consent to the decision to elect an institution director, as a trusted job. Mr. Minister, I know that you have conducted the first round of talks with the head of our parliamentary group, with Mr. Balint Pastor, and we expect the official acceptance of these amendments to actually become an integral part of the law. The other amendments relating to this bill are actually related. We believe that this has worked pretty well in practice in the past years since 2000. So the others refer to a very similar question. In order to appoint an executive director of the institution in cases established by law as a trusted business, as well as to give, according to the mentioned omnibus law, the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, the AP Vojvodina through its authorities in the field of both pre-school, primary, and secondary education and education, or refuses to agree to a decision on the discharge of the director of the institution, before the expiry of the term of office for violation of the law, as a trusted business. It is extremely good that, in the drafting of the Bill on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, and also in the second proposal that lies ahead, the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, as you said, Mr Ministers, has come up with the aim of improving and continuing compliance with European standards in this field of education and increasing the relevance of education, and in particular of higher education, both for the economy and for our society in general. We've heard from you the reasons for the passing of this law, which are quite thoroughly explained. We understand the essence of the new law in the fact that education and education is the foundation of a knowledge-based society, that this proposal is fully in line with the Lisbon Strategy, the EU standards, which we certainly welcome. We believe that knowledge-based society involves developing new knowledge and skills that are needed for the 21st century, primarily different levels of functional literacy, functional knowledge, developing skills to solve problems and learning skills. We understand the particular importance of adopting these amendments, i.e. this new law, through the need to ensure quality and which is extremely important for all, under equal conditions, available education and education, to ensure competitiveness in the labour market and competitiveness with the European education and education system. Hence, we can talk about three perspectives created through the provisions of these two draft laws. The first, as I mentioned, is the perspective of Serbia's development as a knowledge-based society. The second perspective is the equal availability of education to everyone, and the third perspective, the integration of universities, businesses and scientific institutions. To raise the overall educational level of the population is extremely important, I again mention the availability and coverage of children at all levels of education. Based on the statistics that exist for school 2014/15, covering children with preschool education programme, the age of three to five is 54%, which is still insufficient. When we talk about elementary school, primary school attends 97.6% of children according to the statistical data available and secondary school enrolls 99.8% of children and ends 88.7%. The educational level of Serbia's total population, unfortunately, is not satisfactory-worshipping. Of the total population aged 14 years, according to the 2011 census, the data available to us is 2.68% of the population. With an incomplete elementary school, 11% of the population, with an elementary school of 20.76%, with a high school of 48.93% and a higher, high school, the university finished only 16.24% of the population. By respecting the legal right of members of national minorities to obtain education in Serbian, in their native language, or bilingually, based on their personal definition, educational educational work in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, means teaching is realized in a total of 11 minority languages, of which complete teaching takes place in five minority languages. These are Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, Russian, Croatian. Studying native language with elements of national culture still in six languages, or speeches, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Czech, Roma and Bunjevac speech. In school 2015/16. The year, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, of 466 regular elementary and secondary schools of 158 schools, there is one or more in addition to the Serbian teaching language, means some to the language of national minorities, minority languages. In school 2015/16. This year, when we talk about secondary schools in the territory of AP Vojvodina, teaching in languages of national minorities, national communities, is organized in 43 secondary schools, based in 17 different local self-government, I am talking about 12 high school, 27 vocational schools, two mixed schools and two art schools in Hungarian. Why am I talking about this data? I'd like to make a parallel. I find this extremely significant, especially at such times as adoption, adoption, new amendments to the Education Act by the Supreme Rada in Ukraine. In fact, this document makes it impossible for national minorities living in Ukraine to have education in their native language, since these amendments provide that from 2020, training in the languages of national minorities will be done only in pre-school education and in the lower classes of primary school, and from the fifth to the 12th grade, except for the mother tongue, other professional subjects. This extremely discriminatory measure concerns some 150,000 Hungarians living in Ukraine. It is a population that traditionally keeps its cultural language tradition in areas where they live in the west of Ukraine, and the Supreme Work of Ukraine directly in the interests, means not only Hungarian national minorities living in Ukraine, but also other minorities living in that country. The new law, in fact, deprives the rights of national minorities living in that country to learn in their native language. The new Law on Education in Ukraine is also against, in total contrast to EU values, which is why I wanted to create a parallel between the rights to education of national minorities in Serbia and what is happening in Ukraine. To continue, what is really for Serbia, what we consider to be Serbia's fourth industrial revolution. It is an extremely important application of scientific knowledge in everyday life. This implies double openness on the one hand, the availability of education that the higher number of students and on the other hand the openness of universities and university co-operation with scientific institutes and economics. The proposal for a law on higher education that lies ahead promotes the unity of teaching, scientific and artistic work, innovative work as well as professional work. We really see this as a key lever in the development of the economy, especially Serbia as a knowledge-based society. I'll also try to explain the amendments we submitted to the proposal for a law on higher education. The reason for the submission of the first two of our amendments is to comply with the provisions of the National Minority Council Act mentioned just before. In the area of higher education, institutions whose founder is the Republic, the National Council gives an opinion on candidates proposed for the management and management bodies, high school institutions where the teaching in general or in part is carried out in the language of the national minority. So, on this issue, we have two amendments. The next amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education concerns keeping records and registers. In view of the extremely significant record-keeping of the registers, we have seen the problem of unequal, and we consider it insufficient, incomplete, keeping records and registers, and we have responded to the amendments. The amendments concern the introduction of data on the language in which previous education was acquired in order to keep a more complete record of students in colleges in order to monitor, study, improve the educational level of students in the education process, plan educational and enrolment policies, exercise of the right to issue public documents. The amendment also proposed a correction which is a prerequisite for the implementation of a constitutional provision relating to employment in state bodies, public services, autonomous province bodies, local self-government units taking into account the national composition of the population and the proper representation of members of national minorities. The law, the roof law on minorities, the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, determines that when hiring in public services, the national composition of the population, the appropriate representation and knowledge of the language spoken in the field of authority or service shall be taken into account. The Law on the Register of Employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons by the users of public funds, which stipulates that the Register of Employees also contains this particular information, the language in which basic and secondary education was acquired. When we talk about the availability of education chapters 10 The Proposal for a Law on Higher Education states that a higher education institution organises and conducts studies in the Serbian language and can organise exams, conduct studies, or individual parts of studies, as well as organise final, specialist papers or doctoral dissertations, or carry out a study programme in the language of a national minority or possibly in a foreign language, if of course such programme is accredited as a special study programme in accordance with the Statute. Fortunately, in the last 15 years, there have been reception exams in the languages of national minorities in the AP Vojvodina territory based on rural congregation decisions. Now I have to say, in most universities, the University of Novi Sad, but unfortunately, with this issue, there is a problem with organising a admission exam in the languages of national minorities at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad. With regard to the organisation of admission exams in the languages of national minorities, I would like to remind you of the activities of the specific action plan for minorities, monitoring the quality of education in the languages of national minorities, activity 6th point 4. - by respecting really the full autonomy of the university. We believe that by organising admission exams in all colleges, in the languages of national minorities, in the best possible way, one would actually be rounded up by a process in which the first step is to pass final exams in primary education, and the second step by passing admission exams in the languages of national minorities. The proposal for a law on higher education, which lies before us, detects the problem of insufficient relevance of higher education, including the inability to adapt quickly to new skills and competitiveness in the labour market and competitiveness with the European system of education. We believe that one way to mitigate the problem of the relevance of higher education and adapt to new skills and trends is to work on implementation, again from the specific action plan for national minorities, activity point 6 of point 12. – strengthening language capacities and learning professional terminology for students members of national minorities in the language of the national minority in order to access the labour market and professional development. The minority action plan actually carries out this activity continuously, starting from the first quarter of 2016. Let me get this straight. The SVM Parliamentary Party Group welcomes and supports the draft law on the foundations of the education and education system, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, so that we expect the adoption of our amendments so that, if I can formulate it, we can iron out more powers of the AP Vojvodina and indeed bring these proposals into line with existing legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19556	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zarko Koraq, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19557	Thank you. A little bit, with a certain delay, I just wanted to respond to this, this is the first time I've ever been in the Assembly, Mr. Zukorlic has exhibited, as chairman of the Committee on Education, a discussion. However, he practically exposed his discussion to the Committee, which I have no objection to, but it is not summed up by what was on the Committee, that I am not saying that we were not engaged in, as I would say about the accreditation of the university, the topic which is important to Mr Zukorlic, which I respect, but to me who I was talking about, and Professor Jankov was critical, most of it was for, she supported the laws, it's not at all controversial. So I came into a situation where the Committee's rapporteur, whose member I am, was reporting to me something that wasn't in fact, how it happened on the board. I am, unfortunately, not like that, don't throw it at me all the time, but as president of the Committee, it's his job to report on what was at the Committee's session and that's all. The only thing I wanted to say, so you wouldn't get one... By the way, it's majority, I'm referring to article 107. Rules of Procedure. So it's only correct to report what the debate looked like, otherwise, most of the reports were adopted, and that's not at all controversial. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19558	Thank you. So there's no need for a vote, it was more like an intervention. Ambassador Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19559	Please, replica. Probably a colleague took the opportunity to say something. Otherwise, I'm sorry, it's true that the Committee's session lasted a long time, the MPs were coming out, the professor was going out. If something was missing, I am sorry, however, I have tried really not to, not to, to briefly convey even more of the remarks that were made, but positive things, not to be that I did not represent the opposition. To my soul, I didn't transfer everything from the session to what was going on, those sermons that opposition MPs held to present themselves in front of the cameras. I've avoided it. So, in short, I tried to present what was on the board, I didn't quote that you were against the appointment of the Minister of Directors and that you repeated that sentence, almost all opposition MPs. If that's what it was supposed to be, there's someone else I'll try. In any case, I think I correctly conveyed what was at the Committee's session, that there were dissonant tones, but that mostly the Committee gave support and that this law could go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19560	You didn't list a member of the Rules of Procedure? Okay, we're not voting. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are too often changing the Law on the University, that is, on higher education and the Law on the Education System. It's two system laws, not exactly organic laws, but it's systematic. So, in that second category of importance, and we should study this issue thoroughly once, that we have previous discussions about it, in order to make as many laws as possible that would take a decade, two or three or more. That is why this is embarrassing from the parliamentary majority that today has outvoted the opposition and imposed these two very important laws to conduct joint debates in order to shorten our time for debate. Here it was necessary to increase the time for discussion, for both laws, to double for each, not just to bring them together to pass through the National Assembly. That's why I'm not able to speak systematically about the full content of these laws, so I'm just going to make a few critical remarks as much as it can fit in these 20 minutes. Here in this law they talk about lifelong learning. I've read a lot of books in my life, and I don't remember finding that expression in a book. Perhaps language experts can confirm that it's grammatical or that it's spellingly fine, but when it comes to styleistics and speech culture, Mr. Minister, then it's certainly not good and you'd have to have someone among your assistants who will be exclusively for the styleist and speech culture in charge. I understand that you've inherited old people, who haven't learned to study their whole lives, and that's saying lifelong learning, that's learning until the end of the week, but of course, our pensioners are such that even after working life, they continue to study, so they learn even more than they've learned for the working century. It's one small remark to begin with to make the debate more interesting. One of the problems I would especially like to make is the textbook's problem. We have to go back to the system of uniform textbooks. This was completely abolished by Dosmania after the five-octobar mafia coup, allowing everyone to write textbooks, and then we have competition among textbook writers, not on the basis of competence, but on the basis of resourcefulness, so there is a bribery of teachers whose textbook will recommend for use in a particular school, and yet some foreigners come to us and appear as textbook publishers. We had a situation that the Croatians bought Bigz's publishing house and printing and that they appeared as one of the biggest producers of our textbooks. It's embarrassing for the state and the state should take a lot more care of what's in those textbooks, and it doesn't look, it doesn't take care. We need to have unique textbooks for both primary and secondary schools, so every year to collect remarks from teachers from teaching classes, to see which textbook should be bought, and which not to be competition among textbook writers under the control of the state, that the state has competent reviewers who will choose which textbook is best. Of course – a product of great profit, why should these mechanics make a huge profit for us, when that profit should belong to the Bookshop, and by 2000, the Bookshop had a publishing activity of fundamental importance for the Serbian people, because this surplus of money invested in the issue of the summated works of the greatest Serbian minds of all time, and now it goes as a profit in the hands of those who do not deserve it, because it is not their success on the market in the quality of goods, but the ability to place textbooks in individual teachers. As for the knowledge check, I'm basically against admission exams, both for high school and for college. For in one day a disciple cannot show what he has truly learned and what he is not. We also have to honor the primary school degree and the high school diploma. So, we think that behind that diploma there is a verified knowledge. And how do we verify it? We need to get back to that old good institution of educational inspection, to increase the number of educational inspectors a lot, that they suddenly come to certain schools, come to classes from certain subjects, on a tip or on their own, or otherwise, to control the quality of teaching and to be frequently tested by students controlling their knowledge. And the fact that after high school students are put up with another impediment to enroll in high school, and after that, even an obstacle to enrollment in college, I'm sure it's not good. As far as enrolment in colleges is concerned, the matter of this second law, we Serbian radicals have been committed for years to enroll all colleges completely free, that anyone who has completed any high school can enroll in any college, but that the first year be selective in all colleges, so whoever passes all the exams in the first year, remains then to study for free, and whoever doesn't make it within a period of time, then get on his own, change college and pay for his education. It's a much better method than for people to now choose college not according to their own interests than for where there's more room or where there's less room. Many high school students are brilliant at college, and many elementary and high school dignitaries shoot at the university. So that would be much better explained by the pedagogues, why it comes to this, whether because of a certain living situation, because of family relationships, because of oversuffering by learning, because those high school graduates who have all five are too burdened with this learning and can't wait to get some rest, to take a day off by soul, and then get into college. It's usually the way it happens. It's not always like that. As far as refugee and asylum children are concerned, we Serbian workers against including them in the already existing classes of our primary and secondary schools. Because that's how they verify the work of our teachers and the whole educational process. No one who has no idea, who doesn't know Serbian, can follow class. If the teacher will pay more attention to him in another language, then he does not give enough attention to ours, and if they need to be organized, then special departments. And why would that be teaching in Serbian? Let it be in English and let it be funded by the UN. I guess it's enough that these refugees are located in Serbia, everything else needs certain United Nations bodies to work, not us from our poor. Because of this, I am very understandingly following the activities of the parents who have opposed it, who are strikers, etc. I call on the minister at this time and that in something milder and more reasonable ways he solves problems like this that appeared at Svetozar Miletic elementary school in Zemun, because, in my opinion, I did not go to that school, not one of my close relatives went there, but in my opinion, it is one of the best schools in Serbia, and by the quality of teaching, and by organisation, and by discipline, and by inner order, etc. It's no accident that all parents and students are so unanimous with their current director. One problem is special attention here, and that's the problem of the National Educational Council. It's something you should take a little more care of. Here is a number of compositions, that is, how this Council is built. In my opinion, this isn't good. There's one representative here, a teacher's association, a teacher's union, and these, and those, and biological societies, and chemical, philosophical, so there's no association of lawyers, so there's no political society, etc. Here are some of these institutions of the state, such as the Community of High School, which is a state association, at least it should be so, and there are some that are NGOs, very specific content of work, but practically NGOs. And the fact that each one of them chooses his representative at the National Educational Council will not lead to the quality of the Council's work. We know how it happens, someone gets tough, sometimes without a session, who's the most unemployed, come on you. In order for someone to be a member of the National Educational Council, he must be expert in this membership. How do you determine your expertise? Only by scientific and professional work. No one can be a member of this council without ever writing anything in his life from the teaching profession, from scientific fields, or from any problem that tangs the institutions of education in our country. I'm surprised they don't have hunting company, they could have included him. I do not underestimate the importance of hunting society for the tourism economy or for agriculture, etc., but what is too much is too much. It's supposed to change the composition completely. Maybe call a membership competition on that council and have someone call in who's professional. When he's reporting for a professor in college, he'll call back. Every month he has certain incomes, so he must have certain work obligations and his expertise to prove in his work to the National Educational Council. I am convinced that two-thirds of the members of this council, in fact, do nothing during their term of office. They come or don't come to the session. There is no ministry benefit from them, and this is an expert body, which has to advise the ministry on a daily basis. I was amazed to hear that it was the president, whether it was the National Educational Council or for higher education, Dejan Popovic. That's terrible. Dejan Popovic, president of the Higher Education Council, a man with no moral credibility, no scientific foundation behind him, with nothing. Known as such, the nation remembers him flourishing when former Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic took him as his assistant. Watch out, a regular professor of university goes to assistant minister, so it blooms like I don't know what he's accomplished in life, and he's acting in public. He can't allow himself to go to something below the minister's rank, at least I think so, if it's a regular professor of the university. Because, always in some social elaborate hierarchical alignment of state and social functions and calling, approximately the university professor in the civilized world was around the rank of minister. I guess we just have to work on that plan. That's what happened in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Besides, if a university professor wanted to be a minister, he had to leave college. The professor of the university couldn't even be a folk MP, now for another reason, because he is believed to be a professor of the university in the state service, in the state administration, and the state university is an integral part of the state administration and cannot be a member of the legislative body. It's a little dyspression, maybe unnecessary. It's also about excursions and study trips. Once and for all, it is necessary for the law to prescribe that professional, study and other excursions can only be organised in Serbia through primary and secondary schools and universities. Only in the case of extremely specific universities, such as the Archaeological Department of the Faculty of Philosophy or some department that deals with cybernetics or something like that, means a professional stay abroad. Everything else has to be done in Serbia. We know what happens every year in our primary and secondary schools and in colleges, when they begin to be sent down by representatives of various tourist agencies and offer good personal conditions for organising excursions there and there, here and here. All excursions should be within Serbia, and anyone who wants to go abroad, especially when it comes to adult people, should organise and meet on their own, so they can travel wherever they want. She can't go to college, high school, or elementary school to force something that leads to a foreign exchange outflow, it's simple. Healthy economic policy requires this, as a healthy economic policy requires ministers to be banned from flying abroad. One day, some authorities will have to introduce it into Serbia. At a time of economic crisis, flying abroad is a disaster, inconceivable not for a private person but also for a minister, a senior civil servant, a official. As I must stick to the principle - let's buy our own home, let's buy Serbian, if there is a Serbian, we must not buy the same goods of foreign origin, so let's also fly to Serbia while Serbia is in crisis, and then you can go to Mars. There's something here that hasn't existed before in our laws. Now I've already moved to the Law on Higher Education. Assistant Ph.D., that's rare. It happens most often at the Medical School, since there is, as they say, the competition is the biggest, but I believe that the doctorate must not be devalued. I understand that someone appears as a doctor of science in a competition for an assistant, because it may be the only way for him to come to university, but he should be put on a request immediately after three years of this assistant's internship whether he's acquired the terms of being a doctor or not. Not every doctor can be a doctor. He can go to some college, but he can't go to medical school. It's about semesters and three-meters, and it's about giving the colleges the freedom to define themselves for a certain kind of teaching that will be divided into semesters or trimesters. I don't think it's a good thing that the three-metres are making a lot of fun of the teaching process, and I think the best practice is the one that's been introduced at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. We worked for her for 27 years, to keep all the classes in all the colleges where it's possible to be one-semester. For example, if there are eight subjects in a certain year of study, four in one semester, four in the second semester. Concentrated teaching and immediate passing of exams. That's much better for teachers and students. Then teachers have half a year free to do scientific work. Unfortunately, we are becoming less and less in practice if teachers are really involved in scientific work. Another problem I hope to be able to absorb is the law of the university, or the university, to determine study programs. That right does not belong to the autonomy of the university. We have a case that each university determines its curriculum. This should be a law for each university to predict, not to have a situation to adapt the curriculum to the already existing structure of teachers and associates, rather than vice versa. We've got extra bums from certain areas, let's make up some stuff for them. This is what happens to us at the university, and in all colleges, they should be exactly the same curricula and programs if they're equal colleges.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19562	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19563	If you'll allow, there's not much to be accumulated, there's an answer you can hear. The term “lifelong learning” is derived from some practice by teachers themselves. Interestingly, the Law on Higher Education has also been mentioned throughout life, and this may be a happier expression. The textbooks, we will very soon come to this House to talk about changes and additions to the existing Law on textbooks, and now it is not a topic. There's a lot of what's in this law, which was quickly passed, slipped, and we have to ask both parents and publishers and the state what needs to be fixed. There's no competence for digital textbooks, so there's no bag of 15 kilos to a student, and we're going to digitize schools and electronic education, so here's the question of only high-quality receptionists. Competition can't bother, but for a number of order, control and evaluation of the quality of textbooks we will fully agree and we will propose this in amendments to the Law on textbooks, which will be here very soon, so that next year, when the reform processes of curricula and the first-fifth-mode programmes, the first middle entry, we can have the right to new textbooks. Then we're going to open a public debate that has never been to schools, and there should be a number of other issues both from national and from some universal significance. Of course it's a matter of profit here, and of course this was solved by some other laws that found us here. Admission exams will be mostly past. The procedure for state graduation is largely completed as an agreement between higher and secondary education, so that the laying of reception will not be achieved in the same way as where universities have an extremely large rush, so they have to check something else, such as architecture, such as dramatic or some other who seek some other quality in future students, so that the completion will be both the school's assessment and the entrance to higher studies. When it comes to small graduation, unfortunately, it has to be introduced and has to be stricter until schools learn to grade better. Now you've got the grade chasing, the average chasing, the huge number of wolves and everything. We talked to the board yesterday about how easy mathematics is made as soon as something is close to 3.40, it's necessarily already very good, etc. That's where they're really bidding on that success, and institutions have learned that a long time ago. When they realize that the external evaluation is much more important than the one currently taking place during the process of grading and the duration of the school year, then these things will be able to be corrected. Of course it's the student's interest to apply to an unlimited number of colleges and we talked on the board, where we're lucky to experience high education completely free of charge. Educational inspection, one big subject. So the way she exists now is a bad tool. This year we have introduced 200 professional associates, advisors, the best people in the profession who are to help one system and we are going to make a whole new body that will be able to satisfy the surveillance in question, not to go to a professor of mathematics for a second. He'll watch something, but he won't see what he needs to see. There's also the possibility of only evaluating institutions, which we're going to insist on. We'd have to have thousands and thousands of inspectors to do what they want to do, to go somewhere, see someone, and stuff. Indeed, we are going to a second principle, and this is in part of the Stem Law of Education and Education described through chapter - autonomy of the institution, pedagogical, where the results of the institution have been extremely high. She needs to be delegated to be paid better, and the collective should be motivated to choose the highest quality amongst themselves in order to achieve it. That's the idea. Of course, I don't mind the asylum kids going this way. We don't have the resources to make a special department now. There were also these suggestions, but I think some ghettoisation at that point is not in the spirit and tradition of the Serb people. Practical problems exist, classes are performed also in English, in Serbian as much as possible and we try to relax places, such as Shid, because of some ghettoisation and congregationing of children. So we really don't think that children and Afghans and Roma, anyone, should be helped. In 1941, we were fostering here when we were hungry and Slovenians, I have it in my family, and a number of others. But will someone say thank you, etc., well, it's not what the Serbian people expected so far, but if it's a chance to help, especially children, I think it should. The National Educational Council, we'll talk a lot about it. We have analyzed here for a year the role of such bodies in most European countries and for us close and traditionally, by anything. These bodies in nature agree with you that they should be expert bodies, and as we concede them, we still haven't solved that problem, and I totally agree with that. An expert body cannot have the decisive power to make decisions. That's the problem that was built here and you're not going to find it anywhere in any European practice. So it just doesn't exist. Everywhere you will find, in many countries, I will give this, who is interested in Members, to read the study, advise, propose, and this is the domain, and must be experts. They need to help the executive authorities make better decisions. That's the whole part. Different bodies, as you say, would be if now everyone who wants to be like an honorary body, about so far more like an honorary body, should be of one hundred members. So, the DRI asked to cut from these 44, so we did it to 30 and something, because they cost a lot of the state, and we don't have the effects, and we're through various professional associations, not NGOs, they're professional associations of educators, teachers, professional associates, directors, because simply, when we group one branch, we give one representative out of several, because this would be excessively possible. It's a tradition society. I can't exactly call myself an NGO in that pervasive sense that they're doing something against this government in that part. When it comes to training refugees, and related to international conventions, we have signed a lot of things. We've signed a lot of things. And when we talk about the electronic diary and keeping records, Mr. Sabic is right when he tells me – sorry, Minister, it's been in law that he can't see his child's medical records for 15 years. I don't think it's normal and natural. And that'll help? I've had children for over 30 years, and how interested I am in their health. Or a high school kid from 18 years of age will be invisible to the system because he'll decide it, and as if a parent doesn't matter, and he'll sit in a car in the 18-year-old's first chance he makes a car and he doesn't need to know. So your parents can't call you school, they have to call him, God forbid, the emergency center. These are the laws that have welcomed us here, I can't fight them. I probably wouldn't agree with them. When it comes to selecting a president of various councils, we found it. And for some, we complained, somewhere the committees decided, and we gave very much evidence that it worked badly and worked. We will arrange the excursions according to one particular principle, respecting, of course, that your country needs to be loved and introduced. We've split it up. It's already done. We're gonna involve a lot of people on the side. We want that if it happens, and happens in Serbia, abandoned schools, not what a student will save the village, but what he will grow up to be, so it will not be him, and then we will look to make these mountainous beautiful little schools, which are in excellent areas, in wonderful parts of Serbia, good places for these kinds of work, especially primary schools, not to go to expensive hotels and Draining parents, where our educational and technological surpluses can and how to do programs about it. We'll invite the public to have those children's resorts we have and all the other things we see. Of course, I think high school graduates must see something from classical Greece or whatever. The same question will be asked about the public and the profession. But it must be cheaper and smarter and that Serbia will split into enough regions so that children do not go to the vass Zlatibor, Kopalnik, Palic. About all the agencies are offering you the same thing. So, there are a lot of other regions that have to be seen, from Vojvodina to various parts of Vlasina, I don't even know what, it has to be arranged. We've got teams starting to do that. Assistants with a doctorate, that's what you said yourself, it's mostly for medicine, but other colleges will decide how much they need it. I don't know these three-sevens and semesters, we found that, so we haven't changed anything. We can continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19565	Replica. Mr. Minister, I will only replicate these Belgian children who are involved in the teaching process in our primary and secondary schools. Actually, I don't know if she's in high school. We used to have a lot of students and students here from unclassified countries at school, especially from Africa and something from Asia. They had to learn only Serbian for a year, and were then enrolled in our colleges and high schools and military schools. Without a year of intensive learning of Serbian language, no one can participate in the educational process at any level. Now, look, in elementary school, you have our department, for example. Of 30 students, they're mostly bigger, so you add a dozen more immigrants to them, so even if the teacher doesn't speak English or English well, even if the children of the immigrants don't speak English, what happens in those classes? This isn't supposed to be professional here, so think about it, everybody understands what's going on in those classes. Not a thing in class is being taught by our children, or by the children of emigrants. If the UN is going to pay for their education, I am for it, special departments, it's not discrimination against those children, there's no discrimination, there's no division of children. They learn in that language for which they have submitted themselves. Someone will define himself English, someone for Serbian. They should be encouraged to learn English or German, to move on, not to stay here. And with our kids, they can hang out on a big vacation, they can have sports games, they can go to nature together for socializing, etc. All that can be done, but to protect the teaching process. This way he's threatened.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19566	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19567	I think you're in first place, and we did it. So the first class in Serbia has 30 and more students only in the region of Novi Pazar. The average in primary schools in Serbia is 19.2 pupils. So our departments are small. It's, well, an accident, to say man, Natalie. But they're here in transit and they're being dealt with and there can be no more than five students in some small department. There are several hundred of them in several cities and many more schools. That's very minor. They must certainly learn Serbian, and that rule exists from when and when, not only for the university, whichever citizen comes and joins the system of education, he is recommended to the class less until he learns the language, and the rest of the time he communicates with the children and learns through that association. Certainly, we pressure UNICEF and others above all to show greater will and patience and they begin to separate funds, so that, they learn English, anyway, and that's what all children do, including ours. Simply, our children abroad have the same certain rights in all our schools abroad. So they learn Serbian, too, they're allowed. We have our schools there. And on the other hand, they're not put together in one class until they go to extra school. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19569	Just for a little while. As far as our students or children are concerned, refugees or children of our workers abroad, e.g. in Germany no one can enter the department with German students until his knowledge of German is checked, no one, except if his knowledge of German language is appropriate for that age, then he enrolls with German children, and if not, then he is looking for other ways, or he is going to learn German until he has mastered it to a sufficient extent or parents get along, they go through our churches, through associations, etc., where some teaching is organized. So this is not a very convincing argument for our students who are abroad. They have certain conditions they must meet. The refugee children and exiles don't have any conditions, as far as I understand, they just have to be enrolled in schools with our students. Introduce language learning, you will see, none of them will learn Serbian, all of them would like English or German, and should support them in that, because they did not run, they came all this way to live in Serbia, and the EU wants to keep them in Serbia so that we have more problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19570	The word is Dr. Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19571	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, the honourable members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first say something about the Law on Higher Education. This law is partly the result of a compromise between the academic community and the ministry itself, and the people who wrote and proposed this law are certainly names that cause respect. However, on the other hand, we have a large part of the academic community that is very unhappy with this law and believes that this law, in fact, strengthens the governance rights of the government and the Ministry, and does not work on university autonomy, and also on the necessary reforms. First, I'd like to comment on the autonomy of the university. Our MP group thinks the autonomy of the university is compromised by this law, and that's because of the next one. In fact, we know that the National Council is one of the key bodies in the academic community, in the strategic thinking of university work and programs, and it is now chosen by the government. So we should, we also gave as a group of amendments, that the National Council chooses the Assembly. If the government chooses, of course the government will choose people who are closer to its political option, so that there could be abuse, or loss of autonomy. On the other hand, the Agency for Accreditation is being introduced. We already have a commission – an accreditation committee that works well. The Agency for Accreditation is becoming another instrument of the government and puttings the autonomy of higher education at risk. I'd like to say something about article 93 about the extension of the working century. It's good to retire at 65 and that professors, who are very important to their environment, can extend their working age for a year or a maximum of two. This possibility of continuing to play extensions until 70 is not good. I know that in Russia and the United States professors can work for over 70 years, but these are completely different organized societies than ours. I think that with this outflow of young people, which happens every year, and in 2016, we have left the country 70,000 young people, if we hold, extend the century and create some kind of species, let me say, gerontocrats, I can say that because I have over 60 years of age, and I think that young people should be able to make progress, because someone can't be chosen from assistants to docents, if they don't create a place, they will be created if the professor is elected, and the professor who holds that department has retired. Of course, there is a great deal of experience and the work of older colleagues and in a different way, another way to include them in the university's work, but not in this way. Since I'm also a professor at the High School of Professional Studies, there's something I have to say about professional specialists. In fact, we believe that professional specialists have been wronged, because they have received a degree in the second degree, and are now demoted to the first degree, which is not good, because no degradation is good, and besides, they are demoted and will be demoted financially. I would ask that their profile, the working profile of professional specialists, be in line with the national qualification framework, because it is not entirely and in all professions in line. This is very important for this problem to be solved. We've given the amendment to that, because I have to say that 36% of the total number of students are professional specialists. So that's one very large number of people. Here I would quote Professor Kovacevic, former Belgrade University Rector, who had objections to the funding model and who says there is no answer to the question – where is the money from and who will give it? Professor Ivić, who is not my husband, immediately understand that it does not turn out to be me now, but is a famous professor of psychology and, also, academic Teodorovic thinks that this law actually works more on system management than on reforms, and that there is a very large part of the real, essential reforms of the education system, and especially on higher education. Academik Teodorovic, who is otherwise head of the SANU High Education Committee, believes that Serbian universities will remain organised much worse and completely different than universities in highly developed countries that we should be modeling. It seems to me that a whole group of private universities somehow stayed out of this system, so I'm interested in what your views are about it. I would also refer to a member of 138 who treats Pristina University, that is, Kosovo and Metohija territory. I would like the minister to explain, that is, to answer me what this is about, because it is said that it will be handled in accordance with Resolution 1244, there is no mention of the Constitution of Serbia and, of course, there is a suspicion that this is one preparation for Albanian diplomas to be recognised more easily, and what Serbia has already committed, but also one preparation to make it easier for the state to forgive, so to say, that is to say, under Pristina University, which is now being moved to Kosovo Mitrovica. In the end, I'd mention there's no word here about ranking our universities. We rank students when they get into college, we rank them when they take their exams. We care very much about what it will be, what the Belgrade University rank is on the Shanghai list and we are proud to be a university in a region that is 300 places in the Shanghai ranking list that is not easy to come to. However, if someone were to ask me from strangers or if someone asked me from our children who are enrolled here – which is a better university, Novosadski or Niski, I couldn't say, and that there really is a substantial thing that it will quantitatively show, which is better than those two universities because we haven't conducted the ranking of our universities. I think that ranking has to be covered legally. As far as this second law, or the draft law on the foundation of a system of education and education, unlike this Law on Higher Education, which, as I have already said, is somewhere the fruit of a partial agreement between the ministry and the academic community, some kind of compromise, seems here according to what I heard from Professor Lipkovski, but also from other representatives of the academic community, there was no fundamental compromise. Practically, most of the people I consulted by reading this law, and by reading it alone somewhere, I had the impression of a fearsome centralization being conducted by the ministry. It's all in the hands of the ministry now, more specifically, in the hands of the minister, and I have to do a digression. This Bill on BIA, which is also announced, also gives very high authority to the director of BIA. So, the head of both the ministries and the BIA, or such organisations, seems to me to be too much of an authority, which certainly cannot belong to either the defence or the demonstration of democracy and democratic will. First of all, when we look at what's going on with the National Educational Council, he's practically saying, "I'd be disfellowshipped by my powers." Namely, to our viewers, the National Educational Council was an institution that existed in Serbian society for 150 years, and it was made by both the minister and the most brilliant professors of that time and the Educational Council gave consent to the draft laws and it also agreed on teaching programmes. Today, however, he no longer gives consent to draft laws, does not agree with curricula, he gives only opinion today, and we know that opinion is not binding. Furthermore, as far as this centralisation is concerned, we have again the role of minister where the minister de facto and de jure elects directors of 2,500 schools in Serbia, of course based on the documentation he receives. Perhaps, Mr. Minister, I don't know if you'll be able to get any other work done, except to read that file and determine who's going to be head of the school. Of course, we suspect that this kind of centralisation and practically the last word given by the minister and the possibility that he will completely change the decision of the school board and any other committee or body does not lead to the selection of the best personnel, but rather leads to the choice of the most similar and obedient personnel, which is of course not good and introduces a large political dimension into education, and I think that the political dimension must be absent from education, as it should be absent from medicine, from culture, etc. We now have an example of this land school where parents strike and you are there with a pretty tough attitude and it can easily happen that out of these 2,500 schools, let's say 10% of parents or employees are very unhappy and then you'll have, we'll all have a problem together that in 250, 300 or maybe 500 schools strike, because people aren't happy with the selection of directors. We in Serbian society have three important institutions – it's the National Educational Council, it's the Institute for Improving Education and Education and the Educational Quality Office, which also loses its strength and there's a minister far above them and all the decisions they make can be taken down and appointed by the Minister and that, after what I've seen, it still charges for the work of that commission from the budget of these respective institutions, which, of course, is not good, and what I would say, if we had a little joke, belongs to a real centralist fairy tale. As for the very links between higher education and secondary and primary education, it's as if these relationships have been broken. In fact, I didn't see in the law that people with, say, math school or the History Department have the ability to influence programs, have insight into programs that children will learn in elementary school or high school, and yet they are those feathered sciences, you will allow me to be a university, not teachers, or teachers in high school and elementary school. So we're staying here with one centralization and a lack of professional control, which is also bad. I think you should take more care of the extremely gifted children and take more care of schools of exceptional importance, such as Philology High School, Mathematical High School, High School with Bilingual Departments and Sports High Schools, and somehow care for it more. What I'd like to say in the end is that it would be good, and we've been looking for it, to find a way for Alexa's law to be incorporated into the law itself, so just to get Seselj out, because he's used to being on a farm and in a psychiatric hospital, so he's acting the same way here. We feel that there is one way to respect not only the death of that child, because the death of that child should serve us as a prevention of every other death, a child's death which, due to peer violence, which is not mentioned as a term on 160 sides of this law, should be found a place for that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19572	Just a minute. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, I'll have to delete the list. Here you are, MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19573	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 106 and 107. A colleague of Seselj, who had just left the hall, was rudely offended and quite inappropriately offended by MP Raskovic Ivić. I'm ashamed to repeat what he said. I don't know if they're stenographers, he was quite loud, whether the stenographers could hear it or not, but please respond, there are a few of us here who have heard it, to warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19574	My colleague Stamenkovic, I can't react unless I hear something and I don't see it. We're moving on with our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19575	First of all, should I ask Ambassador Stamenkovic, would you like to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Okay, not like this. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's full of leaves, I have to delete. Just take it easy, don't run all the sessions instead of the president and the president. I'll delete the list and give you my word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19576	It's hard to say that even the chairman somehow wronged the Rules of Procedure, but there's simply no other way to intervene, so I'm going to use Article 27. It is amazing that MPs who apparently show months ago that they don't know what the MP is, or what the National Assembly is, are trying to treat their frustrations by attacking the president of the Serbian Radical Party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and not only in parliament but in the media. It would be nice if they had the knowledge, if they had the courage, to cross arguments with him in some debate. Where's the lady, who's supposed to be a university professor, just before she discusses having a discussion with the minister about how Professor Vojislav Seselj did it? You know, they have a problem with the complex Vojislav Seselj, many of them trying in every way possible to degrade both his work and his character, but what Vojislav Seselj has done in his former life, they can't even dream. Even if some of their academic titles and some of their knowledge attaches to what their fathers do to each other. Of course, I don't want to speak my names on purpose so that I don't further challenge the replica, but it's certainly clear to everyone what it is and let the Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19577	Thank you, thank you. It's been a while. Article 27 is really too general in nature to fit into this breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is done how? So the chairman didn't do anything. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19578	I thank the president. I think that, in accordance with Article 103, you should have responded to the presentation of your colleague Radete, who in the most harsh way possible abused her right to point out to you some kind of error in her conduct, by using half of her time to insult the MPs, and the other half to glorify the character and the work of Vojislav Seselj. I think you heard very well what my colleague Radeta was saying. You warned her at the time at the end of her exposure, but it seems to me that time was the least of her problems. She has neither pointed out to you that you have broken the Rules of Procedure nor explained what the injury is in her opinion, she has continued what her party only seems to be doing, to insult, humiliate and demean others. For some reason, you let your colleague Radetta work, please correct the mistake now. You yourself introduced this institute of some kind of late reaction, when you make sure of the stenogram, what is actually said. If you look at what Radeta's colleague said, you will see that she has misused her right to point to an injury in your conduct. I ask you to respond and give a sentence that is meant for such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19579	Thank you. Article 103 of which you have also talked about certain, concrete violations of the Rules of Procedure which may be done by the chairman, but in Article 103, in all views, ten, none agrees with what you have stated, except that you have presented an assessment of the statement which also used the right under Article 27. So, I don't see... (Alexandra Jerkov: Can't you see? No, I can't see. (Alexandra Jerkov: Good. ) Certainly good, because it is somehow the role of Parliament's president to assess whether or not there has been or has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you will, of course, say it, that is, most MPs by their vote, "tertium non-date". So there is no third in the political order and parliamentary order. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević No, no. [[Vojislav Seselj: Do I have the right to reply?]] The Belief of Radeta is on your behalf. (Vojislav Seselj: I am mentioned. I came because I was mentioned. Don't make it up. The nun Radeta said so. Maria Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19580	I thank the chairman. I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, that during the speech of the Members of the People or other participants in the search, no discard is allowed. We were able to hear what MP Seselj said to Mrs Sandi Raskovic Ivić and were able to react to other MPs, even those from the ruling party who protect both women's rights and try to protect women. I didn't react personally because I think he's doing it on purpose and it's best to ignore him. If you had told the chairman you didn't do anything to hurt the Rules of Procedure here, I agree. You didn't do anything to bring order here. You didn't do anything to stop a woman from being rudely offended here. It's no wonder that the emissary of the Faith of Radeta...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19581	MPs, you have no right to a replica. If you warn me not to implement the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19582	So Article 106(3) is very clear. First, I can't do anything unless I... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19583	I pray for peace all in the hall. So if someone's warning me not to use the Rules of Procedure, then there's no right to violate the Rules of Procedure and to violate it with intent. Article 106(3) states that during the speech of the MPs, it is not allowed to throw away, interfere with speakers in another way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech, and must be done directly. So, you called 30 minutes later to say something I don't have anything to say about. You have no right, no one now. [[Vojislav Seselj: Do I have the right to a replica, to hear what I have told her?]] The President of Parliament has decided to make the order now and since MPs do not seem to be discussing the agenda points in this part of the debate, I am giving a two-minute break so that the other MPs who want to discuss the points of the agenda exclusively, not abuse the Rules of Procedure, nor talk about what comes to mind. The very office to which the possible breach of the Rules of Procedure was concerned has not once reported a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19584	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, I don't think it was necessary to bring together discussions on these two laws, given that they are in some way different laws and I don't see any reason for it to be an emergency procedure, I don't see that anything was so important that the whole procedure goes in such a way. If someone appreciates that these are important laws, then it is logically the other way around, to be an individual debate about each and leave enough time for amendments to be submitted, etc. Then I'll be forced to talk about both laws together, and if they're not exactly the same. As for this roof law, which itself is called the Bill on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the law would have to emerge from what the government adopted here five years ago, which is a strategy for developing education in Serbia by 2020. It is an unusual feature of our political life, that laws are passed, that strategies are made, that decisions made are completely neglected or that not enough is taken care of when a new government appears, as if, perhaps, someone doesn't want to, but as if history always starts with those who are in power at that moment. This is a strategy, I must say, not misspelled and then when it was adopted and adopted, I had a good view of it against some other opposition MPs, I felt that it was in a very correct way opening key issues of our education system. It was said here that we too often change those laws. It can be interpreted in two ways. One is that they are not well written, that they have weaknesses, that they are incomplete, but another, more importantly, education is practically a central thing in every civilised, organized state. Science is changing, technology is changing, the world is changing, and the laws have to follow what's happening. It's impossible to have one system, a system of education laws that will be immutable for years, that would be bad, that would be some principled principles, not concrete solutions. So Serbia has one huge backlog with its education system. Let me just say, first of all, for viewers, people who follow the Assembly, and for some MPs, there are 126,000 people working in the education system in Serbia, and at this point, about 1,260,000 people are going to different schools in Serbia. So, one huge segment of our population, of course, primarily young people, attend that system and a very large number of people work in the education system. So we're talking here about something that's crucial and the number of employees, and by the number of those who are in the education system, and it's very important how we do these laws, as I would say, what we want from these laws. When we talk about strategy, there were words on the board, I'm an example. Asked the question, you have it in this strategy, the possibility that Serbia will finally get what is a characteristic of developed countries, that secondary education is mandatory. So not only primary education, but secondary education. The answer that is obtained is correct, that this requires a change of the Constitution, I do not dispute it, but it is necessary for the ministry, that when I talk about the strategy, it writes simply, conditionally in the strategy, that the ministry initiates the initiative, that the government responds whether it can separate funds, how much resources it takes and what it takes to finally get Serbia what most developed countries have, that it is mandatory and secondary education. Today with basic education, you can't do much, with modern economy, in modern, as I would say, visual society. We unfortunately took that as an example, in order for it to be some vision, you can't put it into the law, because we should change the Constitution before that, but you can look for it, you can have what it takes to propose to the government. Finally, the minister of education is part of the government, an equal member of the government. What I have here is a feature of these two laws, I'm going to say it very openly, he has three characteristics to say. The first is that they're really trying to remove some irregularities and some perceived shortcomings in these two laws and I'm not slowing it down. Some of the solutions that are proposed are useful, so it's not all useless or bad. An example is listed, e.g. When suspended, the professor loses his license. If he has the right to work, he has no right to work, e.g. Such a thing here is much better within the law regulated, steps are shown how to, what to do with a teacher who cannot work until a court decision on his license, or final decision on whether he will be able to be a teacher. But, as I would say, these are minor changes in the law itself and if I don't underestimate them. What's a different feature, and I strongly resent those who did the law, is that this law essentially atatizes our education system. Both laws make the measures that come down, limit what we have in some way, so far, made decisions and in some ways works, and that is a certain autonomy of those bodies that decide what education looks like, the development of education, the approval of these programmes, and also those bodies decide on accreditation. As you know, accreditation has been a lot of trouble. Private colleges prejudge a very lucrative job for a large number of people, not to open that topic, I don't underestimate them, but they're very lucrative and of course it's a big struggle for someone to get accreditation. Now those bodies that the Assembly formed, we're moving into things to the government. I think that's the wrong decision. The answer we got was ignorant or almost cynical, I'm not talking about the ministry, that it doesn't matter if the government... It doesn't matter. Because when you choose those bodies in the Assembly, it's in front of the public, MPs can talk about members, it's public. When the government makes a decision, it doesn't have that degree of public and that degree, as I would say, is being checked by people who will be in these bodies. I am sorry that this is the ministry, this minister and this government behind it have actually returned to the minister's authority, or the government of that decision, which has so far been done by a single body, which I think was more independent of precisely because it was elected by the Assembly. So what the Assembly did, the choice of these bodies, is now being moved to the minister's doing and the government's doing it. I think it's wrong and it's a step back. I am also not satisfied with who was a member of these accreditation committees or the Educational Council, but it was also some compromise or relative compromise made here in the Assembly. What this will have as a consequence is that this famous accreditation commission will also be one of the government's bodies, and I have great doubts then whether political influence will then be the ones to determine the members of that commission, who will eventually decide who will be accredited and who will not. Of course, it is not a Belgrade university or a New Zealand university, it is clear that there will be no dispute, in essence of accreditation, but it is much more complicated issues of various private universities and various people who make big money, either as owners, or as teachers at those universities. I have to say, I find it ethical to increase control of these bodies completely unnecessary. The answer we got, that argument exists, is that the Assembly proved to be extremely inefficient in exchange for the body. The minister, if I quote correctly, said the Assembly was ineffective, that they could not be replaced for months. That's true otherwise, I know it's true as an MP, but it can't be an argument against that procedure and then it's the responsibility of the Assembly. We cannot because the Assembly is effective in the work of saying – well, now it needs to be changed, and it is decided by the Minister, by the Government. If the Assembly is inefficient in its work, then it should be made more effective, but I am concerned that this will return to the hands of the government, the minister, a whole series of things to decide on. It's the same question from the school director. On the one hand, they were given the right to participate in the course. Personally, I think that this is an unnecessary right, not to see any particular purpose, because enough is this managerial job, the directorial work is rounding up a man all day long, but at the same time a decision has been made that we fled after 2000, that is that one man decides practically about 2,000 directors, schools in Serbia. That's not a good way to do it, in my opinion. It should, as I say, avoid it all concentrating again in the hands of the government and the government deciding on such matters. Some newspapers have been brought in. These are the opportunities for schools to establish these companies, that, I would say, in a more modern way follow the country's economic development, private initiatives, an attempt to improve the material position of schools. I don't mind it, it's okay, it's even interesting, but again we've agreed that if the director is now defined, it's precise that at 65 years of age he's retired, which are his rights, what are disciplinary measures, how the director is chosen, that all these things are still in the hands of practically one man. The answer - I will behave correctly and I will not abuse it, I will consider the opinion of the local community, I respect it all, and we can really have such a minister, even better than we have now, but it is not an answer to the law. The law can only be such as to prevent the fact that virtually once again a whole more educational policy is being run in one place, because these bodies are practically the advisory bodies of the government, or the ministry. And this, when we talk about a vision, a development strategy, there's one part of the law that speaks against discrimination, which is fine. Finally, we have the Law against Discrimination in Serbia and that part is set aside, because school is a place where absolutely all forms of discrimination and learning of discrimination can be prevented, as I would say, practically only in that place, if the family or community is discriminatory, there would have to be some alternative knowledge of tolerance. But when we talk, or when you ask me about the system, just take an example of Roma children who are very much in Serbia. Not to open the issue of the number of Roma in Serbia, it is certainly several hundred thousand people, more than the list shows. We know that, as far as I know, in Roma children less than a quarter, less than 25% graduates from a full elementary school. So if that's one big social problem, then you in the strategy have to have some solution to that problem that's very difficult, because you're closing the circle. They don't have a full elementary school, and what can you do in life without a primary school? You're closing one cycle of poverty, misery and discrimination. That's when I said it was necessary for the law to go forward somewhere. When you say special needs, children with special needs, children who are discriminated against, are thought of as disabled, are thought of as children with certain handicaps, whatever it is called, sensors or motors, there are different divisions. It's all right, the inclusion has already been decided, although we've been going a little throat-to-jagoda, but rightly, you have an assistant etc. But you must continue to go in the direction of the law systemically, to target what you see as a problem in the education system. I'm not saying, in this law, obviously, if I were to look at the side like this now, as someone who hasn't been involved in the education process for a long time, or I'm not active anymore, in that education system you see what you see as problems. It's a decision practically to the Ministry and it's your responsibility. Let's just say, I consider the problem of Roma children to be great with us. We have created a problem for the children of emigrants who are several hundred in Serbia. So I can't understand that this is becoming a central problem in Serbia, 300, 400, I don't even know how many of these children who have to go to school and this society to show some humanity in the sense that it allows them to be educated, that their destiny is uncertain in terms of whether they will stay in this country, whether they will go on, probably most of them will go away, but that in some way, they, in that way, are old-fashioned friends of this country and they will be provided with what kind of normal development. Otherwise, it is not true that our children abroad must first learn language. Let's say, in Sweden, that's not true at all, but they have special language classes when they go to school there, so, if I may say so, teaching teaches language, plus the state pays them to learn their native language, means Serbian. By the way, they pay a cab to go to another part of town, the state pays them to have their native language to learn, which is more than humane. So, once again, I criticise the etatisation, meaning returning to the responsibility of the Ministry and the Council and the Commission of the accreditation body. I think more courage should have been shown, if I may use that word, in perceiving what the central problems of our society are. I see that in particular dual education, which is a political directive, that we are not fooling ourselves, that dual education, which I have nothing against in principle, but with which there are very, very many problems in practice. He has a lot of problems with the dual education system, because he is looking for a completely different organisation and society, companies, businesses and factories where this would be done, and schools themselves, in terms of whether they have conditions for it. I don't think that's the priority of this society. I think dual education is one of the problems or one idea, but it's not a priority. But the idea is discrimination, discrimination against Roma. Discipline measures are now being specified, showing that there is some problem at school that can be solved exclusively between parents, the social community and the school itself. School can't deal with these problems by itself, school isn't a showcase, and it can't teach to be a prison guard and to limit those children, etc., but one body has to be made. Now, I see, in addition to these parenting advices, it's foreseen at community level that there's a body and it's obviously an attempt to get rid of it. There is, therefore, a problem that is becoming ever bigger in our society, which is not indiscipline, but a certain hooliganism of a number of students in classes that school cannot cope with. So, I would like to organize here, because the Assembly is not just a body, it is also controlling law enforcement, that we have some debate in the Assembly and that we see with which particular proposal the Ministry is going out and what it sees as the key problems of our education system at the moment. Once again, I advocate that the Ministry show courage and give the Government a proposal to put on the agenda the obligation of secondary education, so as to see how much it costs, what the conditions, what the problems in our country are, to answer the question whether some young populations here are not finishing what is mandatory by law – basic education. Who are the people who fall out of the basic education system? Are they just Roma? No, I'll say it right away. Then, to answer the question of what does a technological surplus of school educators mean? I've been pushing for some rural schools to stay, and I think the minister said something like that. Sometimes it's better for some place to save that little elementary school for those kids to stay, because when the kid goes to a very early second place with a primary education, he usually won't even come back and then the place dies. When there are no children, you can say that the city died. The village died without young people. So education, at least at the beginning, is something to keep. The bottom line is that we can't solve the problem of the Director, solve the problem of slow work of the Accreditation Commission, dissatisfaction with the work of the Accreditation Commission... You know, a few people told me, I don't know if that's true, which are critical of some amendments to the law, that now the Accreditation Commission will be such that it will actually be able to politically decide which private university, which private college will be able to work on. I hope that is not true, but it is certain that the Assembly would have greater insight into the work of these bodies than it will have at the moment when it is implemented in practice, when the law, as far as I remember, takes effect from the date of publication. In other words, this law corrects certain things, probably in the opinion of those who work in education, perhaps important things, discipline, director, way of organising work at school, etc., but at the same time it has a step back to think that some other problems will solve certain problems, I have used the word centralised, but the word I use – certain etatization, control of the education system. I don't think that's how it works. The state can be a good master, but the state can also be a bad master. Now he's this minister, and tomorrow he could be someone else. Thank God, we've had all kinds of ministers. I remember someone saying that we also had a big, first minister of education in Serbia, Karadjordje, called for him to come from Vojvodina, from Hungary, was a great Dossetij Obradovic, the first Serbian minister to be one of the brightest characters in the history of the Serbian people, extremely educated, in a way almost genius, a very talented man. So we started, and then we had ministers who were better off not remembering. I'm not just talking about the last 10 or 20 years, I'm talking about earlier. We had, therefore, ministers who don't even mention it today. In other words, it is best for the general social control of the education process to be achieved, and that at the same time those people who are at one given moment, which is short, all in the ministry and run the education system and education, to propose what, and I end with it, which is for the future. The difference between these laws and some other laws is that these laws are not made for today, these laws must be made for the future. Otherwise, Serbia without a developed system of education, without a modern education system and educational system, has no real future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19585	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19586	Thank you. Since colleague Raskovic Ivić is absent, I will first give some answers, Professor, to you. In law making, the education strategy has been extremely used. However, what is trouble, at least I haven't found any good action plan that can justify what the strategy has imagined, because already since 2012, and here it is in 2017, almost missed some things, for which it needs a lot of money. We are just now starting to work on one serious action plan, first of all on space and one-minded work, which is the basic goal, to have an ambience and condition for children to spend quality time in institutions. Also, for the first time in this law, it moves fundamentally from learning the content and reproduction of the same to external learning, meaning between the objects of integration, which I said is being introduced. It's the best quality change that's gonna happen. There must be changes based on plans and programs, as you know, and all of this. We do have the huge support of all people who observe these processes on a level, let's say the Secretariat for this part of Southeast Europe, who even make some solutions from us. What is very important, the strategy is very often used. In many things on the board, we've commented on a high school that doesn't go beyond 22, 23, 24%, you'll agree with Professor Jerkov, but we've made concepts for a high school upgrade, and we've also preserved all that integrity of high school that we respect, which we have here for decades. I think the entire high school community is very pleased with the solutions. Better offers, better determination of informational directions, for talent, for high school and how we deal with gifted children, and we look to it to be what will draw the youth towards quality studies. You know, there's no quality student, and I agree with Mr. Seselj that sometimes someone flashes. I had friends who liked to learn campaign, when they got to college, they were great. In high school, he hates to answer every question, just the principle that he doesn't like everything to learn is boring, here he chooses what he loves and has logic, reasons. But if we have a situation, not to be fooled, we have seen the practical state of the current situation in education in Serbia and we have not made it beautiful. With all the honors, the situations I can boast, I've visited over 80 cities, hundreds of schools, so I've come in to see with my eye, to talk to the directors, teachers, psychologists, everyone. And I didn't look at the statistics just, we really saw that these problems are so over-loaded that if we keep working on the same principle, I don't know how fast we're going to solve the problems. So even if the central role of the ministry arises, I'll explain the states later. Many others will still touch it, so I think I will explain it very thoroughly, because whoever read the law from the beginning to the end will see that on the one hand there are so many powers relating to each institution in terms of its autonomy that never existed in our education system. But there is that—but. You can't give someone who's ignorant, who's ignorant, who's a bad manager, where the school is badly rated, where the bad conditions are, to have autonomy. He's already taken his own autonomy through the way he chooses, sets, and does what he does. It would take me another session just to read you the troubles I've written in a year's time, which relate to losing money, to suing, to anti-corruption agencies, to hiring families and what you want to do next. I'll talk about it for sure in one piece, or today or tomorrow, but I think I owe a complete answer. When it comes to strategies and the law on children with special needs, where we absolutely believe that Roma children are supported to the maximum in practice. We've almost doubled the number of founding fathers and high school girls and Roma women, which is even more important. The number of students, we regularly see them, and when you get that geometric progression that that number of students is twice as high, twice as high, there's a UNICEF great partner. We are under the law not to list, Article 45, 136, 77, 76, etc. in multiple blueprints put it in. It's much more important to realize that. We have absolutely great will and I have excellent communication with them. It's kind of our social obligation, I guess. And that it doesn't say in strategies or laws. The dual law goes separately, that's what we said. It is one part of the law that has been laid out as a special process of secondary education, because roof law is what covers both preschool, primary and secondary. In the middle, of course, we have a general education of high school, middle professional and dual, we're going to talk about it, maybe with more aspects when it comes to order, so I just wouldn't now. Technological surpluses, it's a really wrong term. In factories, it's those people who are out of work, in education it's the temporary state of things every school year. This trouble has arisen this time not because of the reform of education but because of the birth rate, but if we're talking about reforming education, we're fundamentally, now we're looking at all aspects of the gap, of the staff, according to the salary available for various profiles for various processes. That's what we're going to deal with very thoroughly. What you must know is that this law is too glamoured and this is how it's too glamoured. There are hundreds behind it, even saying up to 900 different regulations and other things that need to be arranged. We'll try to put it on a smaller number of rules and try as we've tried so far to build various expert teams. What I have to say is what I said on the Education Committee, which is emergency status. I can prove to you with confidence that we're all dealings, obligations, by July of the month. There was a waiting lot of procedures, a lot of bodies had to agree. Certain bodies were late for twenty or forty days. Between us saying something here -- yes, they're late, we're not going to talk about what the Citizens' Protector said, or what she said, let's say the Anti-Corruption Agency. That would be legal, because we had a time limit, and they didn't, but it would be illegal, and that teat has now come too closely because of the beginning of the academic year and because of the situation where they have to get rid of so-called. technological surpluses, and I have to use that term, because it's a list that's being formed every year, which has been democratically deployed since last year. I'll go back through the discussion, through many cases of practice, where jobs are hidden and it reduces the general budget of education, and where trade unions have no access to information, because you know that the government has since 2014 since the 7th of December of the Employment Prohibition Act. Teachers retire, others have to work, and you don't have a competitive procedure. That's what led the system to many bad situations between all the others that we can talk about, the overall selectivity, the pay, the choice of people. We're not Finland, that's for sure, but we can take serious steps to get there. In response to Sanda Raskovic Ivić, a rector of the University of Pristina, based in northern Mitrovica, was changed three times, based on resolution and article 109. The law on higher education. The reasons were more fundamental than the form she was looking for. On the contrary, if we hadn't listened to the Serb community and everyone else living downstairs, the University of Pristina would have drowned completely in some greyery. So, they couldn't meet the budget quotas, they couldn't get a proper deployment, so few people were founded by a bunch of private colleges. Albanians show the world's public that two universities have Pristina in Pristina and Mitrovica in Mitrovica, where they mean both northern and southern. They have integrated models. We've just preserved the university in some classic sense of existence. So I separate what's called the role of the rector and his bad actions, actions, intervention of the state where she could and what's the interest of the state in a broader sense. You know I was prevented from coming in, and we were going to visit the rectory and talk to the deans. We want that university to be more than just funded and just a place to go for a quick and easy degree. We want it to be quality, that the students go there just like the other universities, that the teachers don't go there for the weekend, that they keep teaching and that the students don't have any big ideas. I have little time to discuss what was wrong there. When we talk about professional studies and specialists, by 2016 we had them achieve at the conclusion of their 180 points studies, with specialization coming to 240. The National Council for High, and as part of our national qualification framework, which is done, is the law, which will also be quick here, also in line with the EOC, means that they are coming closer to basic academic studies, with the same number of points, and they can no longer be on the group of the week. Everyone who's found, they're admitted, now we're only talking to the new ones who might be able to get into medical school, I don't have any problem if it's a high-level medical school. So absolutely the message was given on time and simply these things can't be considered the same weight. It's not my will either, but it's decided before my arrival. I remained obliged to answer, which is that the agency or body, whatever we call it for accreditation, had one role, and the KAP was one of its expert bodies. We have to share these roles, and I don't think there's gonna be a dilemma that chooses him, but that they publicly publish the reviews and all the other things that they have to do, as well as who delegates him, and you know that all they're going to do is confirm to you what the university and those who delegate him are going to choose. Now it was even that the government chose one-third, and now it doesn't choose. So it's totally one possible discussion. We have seen many European laws, even neighbouring countries. Somewhere like this, somewhere. It's simply a matter of choice or efficiency. I personally don't have any problem with whether this is white or black, only that it's effective and that it doesn't stop production. I've said about the role of the National Educational Council in a united way. I have brought a study for almost all of Europe where there is exactly what the role of this body is in every European space, and I would remind you that at the time of Zoran Djindjic's rule, this body has just played the role that we are proposing right now. It must be an expert group that advises and gives and discusses, and must be in one level with both institutions. And the colleague didn't get a good look at how both professional institutions were legally solved. Institute for Improving Education and Education and Institute for Quality Verification. So these two bodies get much bigger roles and bigger and more modern competences. So we can't work, if you're changing the entire education system and you have bodies that are in themselves poorly organized, and we need to change all the curricula and programs. We made a new curricula and program, and the framework of his, which was our legal obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19587	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19588	First of all, I forgot to tell you, in response, since I worked in 2001, 2002, our National Strategy in co-operation with UNICEF for Child Protection. It's your personal attitude, it's your right. You said you didn't understand how a 15-year-old boy, a 15-year-old teenager, had the right to hide his health. I have to tell you, there's something called a real child. And the rights of children are no smaller than the rights of parents, I'm not answering you now. In our public, this is often a hindrance, so parents are believed to have the right to beat children, etc. We've had long debates about it. For example, do you ask anyone when they're 15 or 16, if they're going to operate at all? Does he give consent or do you think, until he's 18 years old, that the doctor simply decides for him? So, kids, they have certain sovereign rights and it's not a simple question, but it's one right to protect their health, and that's something that would be considered today in a developed world of one recognized child's right. So, the parent, he has no right to know absolutely everything about his child, because the child has the right to his integrity and protection, as strange as it is in our country. Okay, you said it, your personal attitude, your right. As for this second, just to answer, it's true, the National Educational, you're right here, you remembered that in 2001 and 2002, but that was the moment when we thought we needed a whole system of education, which was completely abandoned, for more than 10 years, almost 15 years, because of wars, sanctions, miracles, to have to lay the groundwork. What confuses me, now we're going back to that same system when the assumption is that the entire education system is still on its feet and it's starting to work. It is your opinion that this system, that the Assembly chooses it, that the government in certain bodies delegates a third, that it is dysfunctional. What worries me, I don't see that this system, where specifically the minister, and of course, is going to propose. The list is listed here, but I don't see why this system would be more effective, because my experience has taught me that, unfortunately, the minister is a completely political person, and I'm not going to name a single minister here, and right now there's no connection in these parties that are currently in power, one minister who's been a minister for a year, otherwise the professor at the BU, has been absolutely a year of nothing. Let me just say, even, we got the funds for all primary schools to get windows, not to blow up kids, so I asked, if former Minister Zarko Obradovic remembers, what about the project, so he said it wasn't even done for a year, even though the funds were approved. So you can have it, and it's more important to me that the system works, not to have it on one person.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19589	Dear Members of Parliament, acting unanimously. Article 27 In the 87th century, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19590	I just stayed in line with what we said on the Committee, and I will certainly delegate the issue of the obligation of secondary education in the situation of changing the Constitution of Serbia. That's what I said before I heard anyone's attitude. On the other hand, I don't think that's going to cost the state more, even if it costs, but child training is enough. I don't think we have any breakthroughs here, because what you said, I've been doing in education for 38 years, and I've been thinking about it, and when you thought about it, you're hot, and here I am when I think, I don't think we've moved much. It's just my impression and my opinion, and that's why we're always starting from the beginning, but I think one dose of determination to be like an initial impulse now to pull it back, to get it real serious, I mean in that sense that I also support the need for people to be better paid, to rationalize the system, and these are the statements that we make every day with people. We were simply guided by the same motive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19591	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19592	Minister, why an emergency procedure? That's the first question. I agree that these are important laws, I think that we all agree here, regardless of which parliamentary groups we come from, which political option we represent, but it's completely pointless and it's not the whining of MPs who cause animal reactions on the other hand, but it's one reality. It is impossible to seriously enter a legal proposal that has one 210 members and another 150 and some members in 5 days. Of course you can read it, read it two or three times, but can you get into the essence of those laws? No, I don't. The public debate is not intended for MPs, nor have MPs been invited to a public debate. Therefore, that justification that the public debate lasted I don't know how long, it has nothing to do with us. You said some institutions were late, and they interrupted you from having these bill proposals present in the Assembly, at a time when it was normal. What institutions? Who's bothering you? As far as I know, Friday was adopted by the government or Thursday. That means the government is to blame. If it isn't the government, it would be very nice if you were to tax-task us who and how did he obstruct this law? Secondly, if it was done, why is it an emergency procedure? Here's to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, practically, you're saying in your explanation that you need an emergency procedure to fire some educational workers. That's what it says or I'm not very good at interpreting what you're saying, and that's what you'll tell me when I'm done. So, you said rationalization, to arrange the system, to know how many people work, so I guess that's done, not a day or two before school year starts for high school students or a month after school year starts for primary and secondary schools. Your excuse for an emergency procedure doesn't exist. The emergency procedure of the Higher Education Act is that because of funding, it is because of the status of students who are on the budget. They're supposed to be taking classes for the other day. How do they know what to do with their status now? What if now some of them or most of them are making such changes that you've completely disrupted their plans, what happens to their funding and their study? It's not a game. It can't be done and there's no excuse for it, except to tell us who the guilty are, so that those guilty are punished in an adequate way. Everything else would be your responsibility, which I don't want to say. I'm sure you had good intentions, but don't let anyone obstruct you in carrying out those good intentions. Let's first talk about the basics of the education and education system. Of course, I agree with colleagues who have already spoken and such as counterpart Zarko Korac, who now does not hear me and Mrs Raskovic. The Minister's hegemony is being introduced. The minister is setting up all directors. It's too much responsibility, it's not done in the military either, it's not done in the police, it's not done in the judiciary, it's not done in sports alliances, it's not done anywhere, it's done in the military, it's not done in the police, it's not done in the judiciary, it's not done in sports alliances, it's not done anywhere, it's done in a man's office, it's done in his office, it's done in business, if you want in 2000 schools, it's done anywhere, it's done in fact. That means that if you're setting up directors, you're personally responsible for everything that happens at every school. It's not natural, of course, and it's not normal. The question is, what are the criteria for selecting these directors and the question is who will help you choose? Will it be party officials of higher and medium level, or will it be some people who have professional knowledge from that area? I'm afraid this is not a real option. Just one example. You have already, as I understand it, a few months of problem with Director Miroljub Mosurovic of the elementary school "Svetozar Miletic" from Zemun. We have protests there. You have made your point, but that attitude has not changed the attitude of parents and most of the students and teachers of that school. What's going on? How will that be solved? You want to invite some special forces to handle this? What happens if such a thing happens in 10% of those two thousand schools, two hundred schools, that collectives, parents, children, are not satisfied with your selection of school directors? What's going on? It's on the verge of emergency. Not to mention the most important thing, that kids lose class. We've got people on the streets, it needs the police to provide, it needs some other services to be found, it's simply not a good thing. Therefore, school directors, and it says in our amendments, should be selected by school committees that should be composed so that they have seven members, that the four of them be from collectives, or educational workers, that the three are from local self-government and the two are parents. Then it's the right framework to make decisions that are good. Yeah, nine, it's okay, I checked. I see college professors, or higher schools, also know how to count to seven, not just when they hire their relatives and friends. So it's the right way to do it. You've got some penalties, punishments for children who break some regulations that we don't see, because we don't have a sublegal act to regulate it, but they're determined by punishment. One of the penalties is humanitarian work. That's what it says. The humanitarian work anywhere in the world can't even be a punishment. In particular, it must not be written in a law dealing with education and education. These are basic values. Human labour is not a punishment unless it's a system of values that affirms a coalition that now holds power. But no humanitarian work anywhere, no punishment anywhere. We suggest that in addition to elementary school and high school, we feel that it is necessary, not to bother with dual education, because it is that education that you can be both ceramic and BIA chief, that you can also be "small" from Belgrade and the minister and I don't know what. No, let's introduce that high schools are also mandatory as primary schools, and in addition, of course, when something is mandatory, by all means and by all regulations international, but also by some common sense, their textbooks for these children must be free of charge. For everything. So, textbooks to be free of charge for all basics and high school students. And that textbooks are free of taxes, not that people who try their way through used textbooks to help people sort of deal with those high-prices in free school, and that free school costs between 10 and 20 grand each year, so that it changes by giving everyone textbooks. Of course, not always new, there's going to be one system to be used and used, there's this system that's very, very simple. And it can be done and it needs to be done, because it makes sense, given the pointless idea that kids of 7, 8, 10, 15 are wearing suits, we're putting on a tie, and it's an explanation that it's a fight against social inequality. Social inequality is solved by developing an economy. Social inequality is not solved in the education and education system, but in the economy, in the tax system, in the social protection system, not because we're going to have fashion designers or fashion designers who are now going to explain that this is phenomenal, that children will learn better and not see how much money they have. It's pointless and it doesn't matter. It says in this law that there's no party-functioning schools, and I think that's totally fine. But I think it's okay, and that's our proposal, to ban and religious action, no matter what religion, no matter how. This does not apply to an optional subject of religion, but to the functioning of religious organizations, churches, sects, and whatever you want in schools, it is forbidden, it must not be allowed. First of all because, except in the last grade of high school, they're underage kids. That can't be allowed. Finally, in Article 7 paragraph 7), we entered what we have been fighting for for several years, which is academic honesty. It's that people should be subjects in the education system, being people who can boast that they're academically honest. So they weren't prescribing their Ph.D.s, their diplomas, they weren't stealing, they weren't shopping, like you said before, cheap and fast diplomas. You mentioned one university. It's not the only one. We have an Index affair that's been going on for 10 years, so we don't know what's going on with it. We've got PhDs, small, big, this one, that one, we've got graduation on Sunday's former president of the state. These are all the things that suggest that the academic world, the academic life in Serbia has been very polluted for the last ten years, intensively for the last five years, and that this has to be solved in an adequate way, which is that those who are handling it, and that is you, to accept a system of values, which should not be discriminatory. As for the Law on Higher Education, in Article 7 of the case, the same thing, in attitude 1. As with this previous law, it was the right place to introduce academic honesty as an concept, but also as a system of values that is a condition for the healing of the academic community in this country. Of course the National Council doesn't have to choose the government, it's completely pointless. He's supposed to choose parliament, and that's where I agree with my colleagues who said that. There are countries where the interior minister appoints police chiefs, the justice minister appoints the presidents of the courts and the minister enlightens all directors. But these are countries with a long democratic tradition. These are countries where a minister can't happen when you catch him stealing money for an apartment, to sort it out by having an aunt in Canada. That's not the kind of country. These are not countries where you can in the middle of town "complete idiots" according to the president of their party, crash in the city centre. These are not such countries, and this etatization is inconclusive with us. Of course, many people have gone through basic education and learned nothing, they show it every day, but some higher power has punished them, so it's obvious. I think you should have some fun, Minister, something that would lead you to the positive side of the history of Serbian politics, not just in the area we're talking about right now, about education, but also beyond, which is that you start a review of all suspected diplomas. If mine is suspicious, let's start with mine and move on. To question everything. There's a simple way to do that. You don't need the police here, you don't need someone to bark about it, but you just need to carry out a procedure that you know well, which is very often carried out in other areas, often carried out in this area in some other countries. "Playing" to the fact that someone is proposing something has never solved, rather than acting on what someone makes as their proposal. So I'd like that part of your job to be what will dominate in the next period. We will, with 23 amendments to the Law on the Foundations of the System and 30 amendments to the Law on Higher Education, try to fix what has been misstarted. I am sure that opposition colleagues also have good amendments, so it would be good to respect that it is not a party force, but a good rational approach to this problem, where we, of course, have a good part of the ideas and some fully-rounded amendments from professional trade unions, scientific associations, to consider this and try to save this law in a way, because education is a very important function in every country. It's terrible for a society when it comes to the fact that your educators are too much for you. It's a sad society. If you have a society where teachers, teachers, university professors are excess, that means that society goes towards one institutional ignorance, which means that society will have big problems in its future. Therefore, I appeal to you, this function of yours, the place you take, I hope, and what you have done in your previous operation obliges you to approach this problem seriously and to stop creating conditions that 25-30 thousand young people who are users or victims of such laws are re-exposed from Serbia, and this is not just the result of the global economic crisis and migration, nor is it just the result of the domestic economic crisis, which is, of course, obvious, regardless of the lies that are being broadcast from the top of the government on economic growth, on GDP and on these things, by the number of unemployed, but it's one imaginary movement, act, idea, the process where the ruling parties at this point deliberately and such laws dissipate young, educated, smart people from this country, to get seats for those who have forged, stolen, which are funded from aunts from Canada and similar sources. It must be interrupted, it is the interest of all citizens of Serbia, regardless of who they voted for. Minister, you have an obligation to do something to stop this process, and part of stopping or stopping this process can be one good law on these two areas. If you think and if you agree with me that it's impossible to fix it with a hundred, 200 amendments that we propose, then withdraw the laws, put them back in the process when they're fixed, and then we'll have enough time and enough time and enough responsibility to vote for one good law. These aren't good laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19593	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19594	Okay. I barely knew what the waist was, so I could answer. There were more political debates and pamphlets here. I agree, academic congratulation, congratulation everywhere and in every place. I've been an educator for 38 years, teaching kids, professors and all the other honestys, and I've never lied to anyone, cheated on anyone. You can find that out in this town who you want it from. Reviewing all suspected diplomas, I agree, but it's none of my business. In the opening statement, I made it very clear what the new law contains and how we are going to evaluate it from now on. It's the work of judicial investigating bodies, as you well know. So we also have a tool that someone can't plagiarize. We have the tools to form a commission, to get the inspection out, and I will do it with honor. As for those issues about etatization, centralization, hegemony, I'm really going to have to be united, because I'm going to repeat myself. I don't think that's the case. I'm simply going to give you enough clear reasons why it should be at this point. Professor Korać made it very clear that the laws must follow some life and reality, and we, if we want to be part of some European space, we had to bring this into one piece when it comes to changing the way people learn, work and all that, curricula and human training. A parallel need to think about people's standards, and I'm trying to figure out how much my leper gives me, and I'm convincing everyone in the government that this has to happen. Technological surplus is the wrong expression, but the philosophy education is something we've had so far. If you have at school, there are six of them in the state, to enroll as many students as you want, even though it's the most endangered profession, because there are at least children, we're now thinking about some alter program, about their qualifications so that they can get into some other teaching processes of what praises us. Let's say they teach math in fifth grade, some information, etc., and we're working on it intensively. So it's not just cut it off and put it somewhere. Personally, I don't think I'm going to use that methodology, and I just found it, so taking care of people isn't just a declaration but really some plan and seriousness and solving those problems. I can testify to you, all the unions, regardless of the need to show their pay and strike revolt, but that we've spent a year and a few days working to find out where we've managed to find out who's keeping the director. There are honorary directors, there are who aren't and that's very clear statistics. To tell you the truth, talking about dual isn't a ruckus. It's simply a subject that all the civilized countries of the world are dealing with. In Trieste, where was the Berlin Process Conference. The Berlin process itself was the main topic of education for work. Maybe that expression is annoying. We used to have that practice or whatever they called it. So there are workers' professions. There is also a obligation for others who learn certain professions and profiles, four-year-old nurses have always had practice and now have it, so we don't favour some stories. We didn't cross down either German or Austrian or any law we couldn't repaint. We don't have that kind of economy, and that's exactly what this is about. This is just the beginning, but we will have a chance to meet on a regular basis about this law. It wasn't an emergency. The composition of the school boards, let's start that topic with you, Zoran. It's the biggest problem where bad alliances are made, and that's where all the trouble of bad work and school begins. If it's an external evaluation of one of the tools, if it's reporting bad situations by teachers and parents and all the living, and we get dozens of emails a day, it starts talking so that whoever makes most of the school board, he rules. He shouldn't be interested in quality. There's no politics here at all. My paradigm of this story is that the director must be the most quality person elected, that the collective must recognize it and choose it best. The minister's only here to check if they did it right. Unfortunately, he can do without it, but then the inspection must be very large, and then we will slowly solve what happens if it wasn't. I'm not hiding, I've seen some solutions with the Germans in the law. They've got it. It's all democratic, everyone does their own procedures, but lastly, he's not the minister of one. I don't have to watch 1750 schools, as every MP represents tens of thousands of citizens in Serbia, so don't run for every speech to ask all 10,000 what they think about it. You know, not even a union representative, who has 25 grand employees, is going to ask everyone. So there are school administrations here, there are teams and assistants. The minister is the figure and the last word in that sequence. Of course, the assumption is that he must be an honest and honest man. I told the unions that – every time you choose a minister who is not a political person, you will preserve it, and now this is a situation that is. For textbooks, it'll go completely different. We gave 86,000 free textbooks this year. That's how much money we had. There will also be a change in the Law on textbooks and you will see original solutions, where we will be able to significantly increase the capacity of free textbooks and cheaper textbooks and digital textbooks. That's the objective of amending the Bookbooks Act. It's just about school, so it's kind of going. Penalties and measures of discipline or discipline are not the same category. So it's an educational measure when kids go out to the park and they take out the broken ones there, or they paint something, willingly or reluctantly. Is he going to make him go away for the first time, so he's going to want it later, that's your assessment as a pedagogue. Is someone going to work humanitarianally? We're going to go rebuild through this law. No word has been said about student cooperatives, which are precisely what they should give as a model of behavior, some acquired learning, financial literacy and a series of categories that no one has mentioned here, which are very large newspapers in our law. If we mentioned the PISA test, Professor Korać came out, we skipped one, but about this, if we hadn't been ready for a year, we would have been very badly quoted, because we didn't bring financial literacy into our schools at all, we with the Faculty of Economics, the National Bank and many institutions, companies at all. I'm taking the opportunity to thank many companies who have recognized a bunch of reform processes that are happening here. There were complaints that the information couldn't get in. Here, you can see that it can. There's no one to maintain the system? There are 400 people employed by school administrations. No computers? They've been bought. The training is done. The base grid has been set. There'll be a local network. That's big business, people. It's not spit at all, so stick to it. If this ministry has managed to do so on its own great will, and only 18, we expect to use both international loans and more significant budgets, I am truly grateful to everyone who has helped to make this happen. Now, as long as we're poor, do we have to lag behind the world? Can we parallelly help the standard of our employees, edit the system and reach the region in some things? With a lot of things we've done in a year we've reached the region, believe me. I'll go back to the other jobs. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19595	Thank you. So, the minister has answered all of you without any conditions for replication. George Komlensky has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19596	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, PS-NSS-USS will support the proposals of the Law on Higher Education and the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which are on the agenda today. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Ministry, given that I have followed the whole process of coming to these solutions, because they have indeed made an extraordinary effort in the past year to make this text extremely useful and useful to those who are most important to us, which are our children, how we will be educated in the future and what education we will provide for them, to come to this solution, respecting and suggestions of the profession. The one who followed it could see how the draft laws, which were in the working version, changed after each of the meetings, memos, communication with anyone who could have been considered relevant for helping make up all of this. Therefore, the public debate here is one of those that should be an example in all other procedures, if we are doing laws that are, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it is, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it' it' it's, it' it's, it's, it' it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it' it's, it', it's, it's, it', it', it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it'. What is good and what is certain in this whole public debate, and from this debate will arise that the final text of this law will be influenced by those who have good will, good intentions towards all of this and have sufficient knowledge to help, possibly with amendments that are proposed to be corrected and to get even more quality text than that. I'm sure there won't be those in that group who can't even count on the support of their college colleagues, because they don't have them, either, because they don't have any friends from the military, because they don't even have those who may even have thought of them as a possibility, with their high knowledge, that influence through the establishment of educational institutions can have some machining and manipulative wine organisations that can claim to have unique patents in the spring of 2007, to plant chocolates on a country that isn't their own, to rent this land in the fall, and then they didn't know or let them know that it should be done in time and during that period, so that they can make it real and refund from the country 555 thousand euros. This kind of thing, when it comes to future founders or co-founders of educational institutions, I'm sure there's no room to be taken care of when some future registrations are approved, even if it's some quasi law-pirotechnic school that might cause someone to come out of the train because they're talking to themselves about the green interest of 10%, or God forbid they get a push from a preschool institution to kick the man out of the train because he speaks English. With this bill, you have eliminated all this nonsense, closed the space for it, and obviously very experiencedly, based on this period behind us, started a serious reform and created a serious basis for Serbia's education to return to the place that deserves it. It is a great pleasure for me to be one of those who reminded me more than a year ago that education is something that must be returned to the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. In these legal proposals, you have created more than enough space for this, created a commitment, and it is up to all of us to provide conditions and the possibility for educators to take their place in the social system, to be respected in the way they were once respected. It's not just material status that makes a man happy and willing to do his job, it's his status that he enjoys in his environment in his environment. The fact that the unfortunate times that have been in the past, especially since 2000 to 2012, have been quite devastating in a senseless race for some imaginary grades at any cost for their own children, in fact, the problem of parents who in every way wanted to get to have a high average grade in their diploma, and what they really know, what they were trained to do and how well they were trained to live in one orderly system, to respect others, to respect themselves, they didn't care. For this reason, I am fully aware of the approaches to certain things, and precisely in this part where at this point you as a minister, in another period perhaps as a minister, take on yourself almost personal responsibility for choosing a school director. It's obvious that too much freedom and too much influence from the bar itself was something that wasn't good for the school system. I think you've very precisely defined all the painful points that existed and exist in this system. I'm not saying that this is the most ideal solution for everything and it can't be, because a lot of things we have to do in the future to get this text and just schooling in any degree, from this preschool to high school, doctoral studies, to get a master's call to the level that Serbia and its citizens deserve. This precision is necessary. Someone will say that there may be too much normability in all of these regulations, that there are too many defined individual rights and obligations, but I really think that you have managed to keep one thing on the right line here, and that's that shade that the form here needs to protect the essence, not that it's purpose itself and self-sufficient. What awaits us obviously in some future work is the question of textbooks, which my esteemed colleagues mentioned here, which I must agree with. I find that such a colorful, unserious and irresponsible approach, as it was there five, six, seven, ten years ago when it came to making textbooks from which our children learn, simply inadmissible. Every child in Serbia should have the opportunity to gain the same level of knowledge. Every child in Serbia should have a motivated teacher, teacher, teacher to help him and to succeed as much as he can, as much as he wants and as motivated. None of these tasks ahead of you are easy. It is simply impossible and simply unacceptable, Serbia is a small country, a small labour market, in order to allow someone who finishes school on two, conditioned to say, at the end of Serbia, to have a diploma of the same title, not having the same knowledge and not learning from the same textbooks, did not meet the same standards. It's something that needs to be fixed. I'm going to mention one more thing that I've noticed here, which is that in some future period, when it comes to the graduation of these schools itself, and maybe looking for ways for the financial motivation of the school's teaching staff, are exactly the relationships and relationships that need to be established between the results of the graduation exams and the grades that students received in graduates according to primary school or high school finals. In this way really compare, because still prom exams or small graduations and major graduations, they are uniform or approximately uniform for the entire Republic of Serbia. They need to be compared in the future to what grade children had and how they passed those exams. I think it's one of the serious jobs that you're going to have here, and that's a way to get from that segment to that position so that it's clear where knowledge is planted, where it's fundamental, where it's good, how can I say, chewed and transferred and implanted to students, any rank, and where there's been races for some imaginary averages. At that moment when we reach an appropriate level, then we probably won't need qualified high school exams or colleges. One more thing you'll have in practice, for sure, a lot of obligations, the one I've noticed, which is that you have to take care of when it comes to the obligations of untrained staff. It is the secretaries of the school, which, in addition to all those obligations they have so far, have received the obligation to participate in the legal part of the job when it comes to public procurement. It's just that it's supposed to be a participation, you don't have to get all the work on them. I think it's very good. Anyone who knows the system of education knows how much administrative and legal obligations they already have in relation to some other services. I thank you. At this point, I don't want to take up any more of your time. We will uphold these laws, and in voting day we will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19597	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19598	Respected Serbian citizens, who are increasingly aware each day of Serbia's decline under SNS and SPS. Here today we have an extremely important law that can actually bring into one key sphere for Serbia's future additional problems, which is the sphere of education. Never personally, nor as the Serbian Movement of the Dveri, have we had a problem supporting what is good, even though it comes from the ranks of the government. I personally praised the moves of current Minister Mladen Sarcevic when he advocated returning school uniforms to our schools, when he kicked out sex packages and promotion of homosexualism from the school system. So, I've never had a problem commending what's good, no matter what the Dwarves are a fierce opposition to the current government. It is also an even greater obligation for the opposition to criticise what is bad, and these two laws bear very bad things for the education system in Serbia. First of all, for an emergency procedure at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you had far more important topics than those that set this law in motion, to solve who bought it, who performed the plagiarities of doctoral work, to solve why every year we have fewer students and students, to see what the material status of educational workers who have salaries below the republican average of salaries or, for example, to solve free education for those who are the poorest and students. As far as higher education is concerned, one of the most important topics for emergency procedures is the abolition of the Bologna reform of education, but all these topics cannot come to the agenda, but something else for the government of the Republic of Serbia is urgent. Further experimentation with Serbian education has been urgent since Stipa Šuvar, via Mira Markovic and Gaše Knezevic to the current regime of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. There's one interesting thing that may not have been seen in public enough. Our three last ministers of education, ministers who come to us as personnel from private education. It is very unusual that in the system of equality between private and state education in Serbia, people from private education are somehow more equal, than people from public education, so Zarko Obradović, Tinde Kovac Cerović, Srdjan Verbić, Mladen Sarcevic, and also the chairman of the Assembly Education Committee Muamer Zukorlic, believe it or not, is a little unusual, all come from the private education system in Serbia, because I assume that in the state education system we do not have quality staff for ministers, for the presidents of the Assembly Education Committees, etc. It is clear between the authorities, the private education system and Sorošev's staff, which since 5 October 2000 in each ministry of education has practically kept the main word. What is the problem with these two system laws is one attempt to concentrate political power in the hands of the Government of Serbia and in the hands of one man, or minister of education. I really have a problem when someone wants to concentrate all power in their hands, starting with Alexander Vukic, via the media tycoon Željko Mitrovica, to Mladen Sarčević. So, this idea that all authorities concentrate in their own hands, and that you no longer have any control-control roles over the work of the minister. That's actually the main problem with these draft laws. Before proposing these laws, the current minister set off on the shift of people who do not wish him and who, believe it or not, have their own free and different opinion as the current president of the National Educational Council, the respected and famous Professor Dr Aleksandar Lipkovski, who repeatedly opposed the various ideas of the ministry on several occasions at the National Educational Council and, of course, what had to be replaced with the assistance of counterpart Zukorlic, your coalition partner, on the committee responsible for education. What exactly does Minister Sarcevic want? He wants him to wonder about everything, that he's the only one who decides on everything, that there is no expert body that can stop him in the way of reforming our education. It's just not normal. It's crazy that he's wondering about everything. It is abnormal for any minister in his domain to be the only one asking about everything. You see what the current Minister of Education does through these two draft laws. So it abolishes the possibility that the National Educational Council has at all any regulatory and supervisory role to play over education in Serbia. It exclusively remains at the level of the advisory role. The National Council for Higher Education no longer elects the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but believes or not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So the government will elect its officials to the National Council for Higher Education. It is the same when it comes to the national accreditation and quality-checking body. Of course, what is the grand finale of these legal solutions, the minister sets up over 2,000 principals of primary and secondary schools in Serbia, which is indeed an amazing phenomenon and an amazing idea that the minister could have even thought of such a member of the law. We actually have a genius explanation here, which is why it doesn't need the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to choose the National Council for Higher Education anymore, but rather the government. Here is what is said in the explanation of the proposal for this law – the National Council for Higher Education should no longer choose the National Assembly, but is scheduled to choose the Government because of the efficiency of the work, because in practice it took more than a year for the National Assembly to replace a member of the National Council who resigned, and this could endanger the functioning of the work. Wait, who's to blame? Mr. Zukorlic? Someone before him who didn't do his job on the committee? The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which does not meet because you want to reduce direct transfers to RTS, that the voice of the opposition can be heard at all, and then because you are not doing your job, because you are initiating the meetings of the National Assembly and the Assembly Committees, the possibility of the National Assembly should be abolished to elect members of the National Council for Higher Education and that this possibility should be given to others, but to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, a really funny argument that only tells you that you want to centralize all political power in your hands. Of course, you have a big problem that there is any control mechanism for your work. You do not report to the National Assembly, but for a year and a half, not one of the ministers, and you are obliged to do so every three months. Once the president of the National Education Council opposed the minister at the sessions, of course he had to be removed immediately, because you don't tolerate a different opinion. You immediately become nervous when you speak to anyone who disagrees with you, because the basics of your political action are violence and totalitarian desire for authority without the presence of the opposition. You cannot withstand the presence of the opposition in any domain of state and society. To prove, of course, I have a very specific and current example, where you have already applied practically indirectly this law, even though you have not yet passed it. The case was just from my hometown of Cačka, where Minister Sarcevic, before the law was passed, held a coup in several primary and secondary schools, replaced the school boards, appointed new executives, who, believe it or not, belong to the Serbian Progressive Party. Indeed, an incredible surprise and an almost shocking coincidence that the party director is being appointed by the minister at the head of primary and secondary schools in the town of Cačka. Here we come to the key issue, where the minister explains to us, on the board and today here, how, is it, we have a big problem with the selection of directors because the directors are setting themselves up new mandates, dealing with members of the parent council, with employees. Is that true in many cases? That's right. And what do we get as an alternative to these legal solutions? The almighty minister, who will objectively and honestly appoint two thousand directors in Serbia. Who believes in that fairy tale? The moment Mladen Sarcevic is placed on the table of 2000 party directors of the SNS, does anyone believe that Mladen Sarcevic will refuse to sign their appointments and say – no, no, no, you who have appointed me as minister cannot be your party directors, but there are better ones and here I will set better. Can anyone in Serbia believe that the SNS will not take advantage of the possibility that the minister appoints all directors in Serbia, to appoint for all directors in Serbia his party soldiers? Of course you'll do it, so you're already doing it in all areas of society. The only sphere of society in which you have not been able to implement it so far is the area of education because there are some school committees that have worked beyond your will and this law you want to abolish the autonomy of a general education system in Serbia and to impose your party directors in all primary and secondary schools in Serbia, as you have now done in Chačka, where you have appointed as director of a primary school person who has never worked in primary school, not only has he not worked in that collective, but has never worked in primary school, and for the head of a secondary school you have appointed a person, of course a member of SNS, who has not only not been from that collective, but has never worked in high school. So you've appointed officials, Mr. Minister, to two schools in Chačka, with absolutely nothing to do with the primary and secondary education system. It's a picture of how you're going to frame yourself when you're wondering and deciding according to this law. It was very interesting to follow the media controversy when you were asked – who suggested these candidates. You say - I have nothing to do with it, I was suggested by local self-government. The local self-government says -- we have nothing to do with it, that's what the minister set up. The question arises, I'm sorry, who put the minister's name on the SNS officer's desk? People's MP from Cačka, Mayor of Cačka, member of the SNS presidency, did the minister personally take a shot through his own I don't know what kind of private or party ties? No one will accept the responsibility that he proposed those two candidates, because everyone knows they're party and they're not competent and they've never worked in a primary and secondary education system, and no one will accept responsibility for running those officials. Now, that's what this applicable law will look like when you adopt it to simply enable once-all-powerful minister to appoint over 2,000 primary and secondary school directors in Serbia. As for, of course, your big ideas about dual education, in order to have dual education, you have to have a domestic economy that can accept dual education. We don't have a domestic economy. You have destroyed the domestic economy and put everything into the hands of strangers, we have no more craftsmanship, we have no cooperatives, we have no ability to combine education with our domestic economy, which has been destroyed under your authority at all. Of course, what you have as an obligation is to take care of migrants. That's the most important thing for you. As our students live, as our educators live, as anyone in Serbia lives, it's not your main concern, but to solve all the migrant problems in the world, it's what you do impeccably. Especially in Shid you have enrolled 91 migrant students in four primary schools at this time in Shid school, in four elementary schools in 91 migrant students. Based on what, on what basis, on what educational, pedagogical, or what other ideal? Who's stopping them from getting schooled in reception centers? Who forbids them to let us go out and meet them in any other way? But to force them into our internal, domestic education system, so that people don't make any sense. You're being protested by all the parents in Shid, you can't tell the truth about what's going on in Shid, where parents just don't want you to impose on them this way and try to practically engage migrants who don't have any educational, pedagogical and any other sense. It's not the only thing you do. What you're particularly doing here, Mr. Minister, and they've inserted it into you just like they've put in you sex packages that you haven't noticed, so we've had to draw your attention to what's going on in your ministry behind your back, here they've put you in a member with regard to a ban on discrimination, our constitution of unknown category, gender equality and sexual orientation. Nowhere in our Constitution is gender equality and sexual orientation, I don't know what's going to happen in these laws of yours. Do you have any obligation to change the terms of the constitutional category and introduce anything that has nothing to do with our legal assets? What are you insinuating this for? You cannot resolve the status of a believer in Serbia for 15 years, which every year renew their working relationship and cannot get any working relationship on indefinite time. You can't solve the status of a religion, which is everywhere for the sixth and seventh hours and practically and religious teachers have one discriminatory relationship with this subject and these professors, but it's important that you solve sexual orientation and gender equality. You can't solve the issue of supplemental schools in the diaspora, textbooks, evening programs. Where in this law is your member of the National Educational Council from the Serb ranks in the region, from the Serb ranks in dissipation? Where are your extra schools and programs and honorary teachers from the diaspora, and not that you have to send them from here, but also our diaspora people who can perform an educational function in the diaspora and organize educational schools? Where are your schools in diplomatic and consular offices? So what's your job is not to do, but you worry about sexual orientation and care, of course, about the gender equality that you've been forced into like those sex packages that have spread to our schools without you even knowing what's going on in your education system in Serbia. Finally, of course, what I particularly insist on, the problem of trusting the affairs of the state administration in the AP Vojvodina, I really don't understand. How do you allow Mr. Ministers that Vojvodina has a special school calendar compared to the rest of Serbia, to have special programs? Is that the state of the country, what is it? Don't we have a single education system on the territory of all Serbia? In one part of Serbia, students are going on vacation at the moment, in another part of Serbia going at that moment. What are we, are we one broken or broken state because someone wants Vojvodina's autonomy to build a separatist state in the state? Why didn't you end this trust with the AP Vojvodina State Administration? The education system is the heart of the unity of the state and the unique role of the state in education of future generations. One part of Serbia can't be educated like this, and the other part can be educated in such a way as you allow by trusting the affairs of the state administration of the AP Vojvodina. So, the thing is very clear and simple, you want, as Aleksandar Vukic does, Zeljko Mitrovic, Bratislava Gasic, also to take all things into your own hands, that only you are asking and deciding about the education system in Serbia. That's why, Mr. Minister, on September 28th, you have a strike against all educational unions in Serbia, so again, educational workers are up against you and your government who humiliated them and who violated all the promised arrangements in that memo when the previous strike, the longest in the history of Serbian education, is over. You've cheated on educators, you don't solve the pay grade issue, you've had strikes since September 28th, and that's the truth about Serbian education. You cannot cloud that truth with any of your empty stories, where the most important thing in Serbian education is that you place 2,000 party directors of SNS at the head of primary and secondary schools in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19599	We've got replicas. First, Aleksandar Martinovic, Muamer Zukorlic and the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19600	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Well, we're not afraid of the SNS opinion of Bosko Obradović. He doesn't have any particular opinion on any social problem. Serbia has a problem with his beatings beating women. That's the problem. As for the two directors in Cačka, Bosko Obradovic was responsible for the meeting of the Education Committee yesterday, but he, in his old good practice, in order to hide facts that do not support him, will not say, he is a great advocate of family values, care for tradition, family protection, etc. why the minister replaced two directors at Chacan schools. Because they didn't want to react, I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia to know. Because they didn't want to respond to reports of a pedophile case in those two schools. That's why these directors are being replaced, not because they have or have nothing to do with SNS. Unlike Bosko Obradovic, who has opened up in Serbia since 2016, if I am not mistaken for seven jobs, for him and for six of his MPs, Aleksandar Vukic, whom he mentions from day to day and nothing else, can speak, as you can see, except that he repeats Alexander Vukic SNS, 24 hours, in three years he opened with his government over 55 new factories in Serbia and employs dozens of Serbian citizens. We have reduced, we have halved the number of unemployed in Serbia, drastically reduced the budget deficit, we are increasing from year to year GDP and Serbia is progressing. To make Serbia appear to be running Bosko Obradovic by some case, we saw his black shirts beating women in front of TV Pink the other day.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19601	Thank you. The word is Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19602	If colleague Obradovic will get some voice amongst his handful of hawks, mentioning me, I will not defend him, let him always do so. By saying that he partially listened to me yesterday from the board when I told him that the poem he denied yesterday didn't go through with it, because he's going to need it for the assembly today. So I followed, he almost repeated all the lyrics of that recital, and I'm sorry that he didn't bother to get into the problem of the law, and he's criticizing us, to point out something that's been missed, because actually this debate in this room serves not only to be one for, and one against, but to come up with what's rightly commended, and what we missed through the amendments and in the foreseeable ways. So we have singing, a few floscules – the minister took everything, not to these nothing, state, private... I think as long as our grades are who the state is, who's private, not the reference, the quality, that doesn't lead anywhere. So, the only thing I can agree with is that we need to return the decision on the National Council for Higher Education to Parliament, and that is an unfortunate comment that has obviously missed a group that wrote the law on the grounds that the Committee has not taken a year, so that is the basis. Clearly, then, one of the law scribes in that task force had reason to break it down. And of course, I won't agree with that, that the structure of the National Council where one interested group has a complete monopoly. There's something we can agree on, but I'd really like to invite you to go with the conferences and suggestions that will benefit us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19603	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19604	I'm obliged to answer, because yesterday on the Education Committee, the MP was able to say what he wanted and leave. As usual, I think it's rude behavior, and this law speaks of education and education. Of course we heard all this from word to word, as a recital. That's right. I was checking, I had it all written down, nothing new. Emergency procedure, unions, wages, poverty, experimentation, people's shift. The only thing I haven't answered, that's where you went, that's today's announcement, you have local self-government, Cachak, that the mentioned officials of duty are appointed by local self-government by emergency procedure until a regular selection procedure begins, where I don't interfere. If I get a suggestion from you, from anyone else that it's inappropriate, I'm going to check it out, so I'm going to put the name of Self-Government Chuck on the pillar of shame. You came out yesterday without hearing it from me. You did it again, and you could have checked it out. Last night I insisted that they make a statement, you have a statement... (Bosko Obradovic: What are you waiting for? I'm not waiting for a replica of you. It's not a subject, it's a migrant's attitude. Discrimination, it's in the Discrimination Act. Do you know that 22 bodies pass when you have to bring the law to the Assembly? There are trustees and discrimination and equality, that's our legal obligation. We don't favor anyone's orientation or any of what you said. You give some pure political connotations to something they don't follow. When it comes to religious status, I told Patriarch and everyone else in public debate, there is Mr Zukorlic, as representative of another religious community, that I am not guilty of being hit by the Employment Prohibition Act. Why hasn't anyone solved that status since 2001? By 2014, he could have gotten rid of it every time. I promised, as soon as the law went down, there would be changes and additions to this law, if for nothing, just for that, which is that these people have the right to get and the right to take credit, to be normal professors, of course to get into licenses and all those other obligations like all the other professors. That's what we said and talked about, I don't see you respecting me, I said that when I was supposed to. We've had some really thorough public debates. We have made it up to anyone who has anything to add. Now we're sure to learn something, but half of this isn't standing. Trust in the Vojvodina business, that's since 2001. We're on our way, if you haven't noticed, you've managed to put this part of a minister you don't like when the directors are elected, not v.d., let local self-government do it. But Vojvodina has accepted that we are part of a single system, and I will play the role of the minister, not this one, I will correct you, it is not 2,000 schools, it is 1751 exactly. As you MPs represent the interest of 20-30 thousand citizens, as far as it is, I don't believe you know everything about them. I know about 700 directors myself, I've met them, and I'll meet the others. I have great personal capacities, but I also have a lot of help on the side and from friends and I have better tools. Take a closer look at the Chapter of Compensation for the work of the school director, see better what everything in the license he has to pass. It can't be anyone just because it wants to be. It can't be set up by any party, nor by Advanced, nor by yours. So here's the paradigm next, choosing the best because the salaries will depend on the school. I don't choose, the election procedure remains exactly the same. There's that thing going on, but somebody's gonna check to see if everything's done right. That's what the Germans do, other countries do, which we wouldn't do. If you show it from this angle, then it sounds more, it doesn't sound, but we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19605	Dear People's MPs, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours and then we'll continue to conduct a debate on the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not exploited their rights, want a word? (Bosko Obradovic: Replica? I didn't understand you, Mr. Beard. (Bosko Obradovic: Martinovic, Sarcevic, Zukorlic called me by name and last name, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am followed by a replica. Just a little quiet, please. Mr. Obradovic, in order for me to personally have the basis to give you the opportunity to replicate when it comes to the part of the session that I have not chaired, I would have to get that information from the chairman of this part of the session, in particular in the case of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since I didn't get that information, there's absolutely no basis to give you a chance of replication. (Bosko Obradović: Look at the stenogram. How is that not a basis for replication? So what's the basis for the replica? ) The word has a folk letter from Milena Bitjanin. Here you go. (Bosko Obradovic: Wait, I was called by three speakers, how is that not the basis for replication? So what's the basis for the replica? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19607	The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, respected and dear fellow MPs, the SDS, of course, since it was founded, I can say with absolute certainty that education is an engine for the development of society. The trigger, we can call it whatever it is, it may be a nicer word, but certainly something that can change our reality, our lives, and absolutely make conditions for creating an absolute, respectable and successful state. We advocate an education that will indeed be in the spirit of social justice, really accessible to all. Education that gives equal chances, but not just an equal chance of having a school and having a teacher, but that you have a quality of education, and I say this especially because we know that a large number of Serbian students attend schools in certain conditions that are slightly different from the city's, very long journeys to school, roads are insecure, of course, they don't have their comrades there, and then we ask ourselves, with all the sacrifice of teachers that are certainly offered to them, I wonder if they actually manage to get everything that is possible and what this country promises. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia also advocates the democratisation and depolitisation of the education system and what has already been the subject of constitutional change talks, and is part of our programme document of the countries of education, we advocate mandatory and free secondary education. There was a lot of talk about it last night on the Education Committee. I see that the mood of my colleagues and the minister who, of course, participated in that conversation is in that direction. I hope that new constitutional changes will bring us this legal framework, because it has a primary school in the 21st century as a mandatory, only mandatory education system is really minor. It's minor to have only middle school, but we have to commit to having quality secondary education so that we can influence the quality of the education of the nation, so that we can further improve our higher education and all levels of education following the completion of basic studies. Just like that. What we can politically agree on, however, but the education system has its, as I say, established legality in essence of creation. So it's a system where you educate children, at some point, during which time they will come. My key question to myself, to all of us, is I'm not asking for any answer, because the answer we're going to get in eight years, which is, today's generation of champions is six, seven years old, as who, in eight years, means, since today 2017, it's going to be 2025, I'm going to ask myself and all of us, do we know what the world is going to be in 2025? Do we know what our economy will be, what our needs will be, and do we now have enough preconditions to create basics and quality foundations for what awaits us in 2025? I stand out that year because I measure it with the beginning of the primary education of the first generation, or champions who are going into their system this school year. What's also important for the system and, how can I tell you, all the countries in the world of course have this kind of limitations, but others seem to have managed to solve some other issues in the past, so they're easier to catch a momentum with time and they're easier to control the time in which they live and to impose new standards and new models, which are very much to accept, which I would say this society is not. What burdens to a significant extent every law on the foundations of the education and education system and of each minister, regardless of which one we talk about, is a simple public attitude towards the education system. Our public is very divided. I think there's a lot of superficial attitudes, either the school's perfect or nothing wrong, or teachers are doing, or teachers are doing nothing, they only have annual vacations, all children are boastful, or children are ideal. I don't think we have enough critical relationship, because first of all, we're performing very personally, just from the point of view of what we're personally pleased with. The law primarily concerns students, teachers, parents, all educational authorities, society in general. The law needs to provide, and probably, of course, that's why we're bringing it in and that's why we're discussing it, the law has to provide a key element, and that's the element of quality and sustainability of that quality, because if we don't have quality and if we don't have progress in the objectives, then we only have a system. We can say that we have a system, we can say that we have employees, we have the money that we single out, but we don't have the results, and then of course we have everything that we miss today and what we all, of course, are totally rebelling against. Why am I in first place, so if my fellow educators listen now, they'll say why children in the first place? Because kids have to go to school, kids have to go to school, and teachers choose a profession. This does not diminish their importance, nor their role, nor our responsibility to work towards improvement, not only the material status of teachers, but above all respects professions. I would really like special attention in this part of my address to teachers. Why? Because teachers are the bearers of the education system. They're teachers. They come with some completed schools, they come with diplomas that this state has recognised to them, which the ministry has recognised, come with their own will, come with their own personal commitment, come with their own personal attitudes, choose work and carry the system. But what the system has to do is show really much more respect. I remember in the 1990s and I don't understand enough those who say it's an important role, but that material status isn't so important. It's important. In the 1990s, we were the only profession on which the journal was published when it was paid. In 2000 we welcomed with 50 marks, and of course we have not been able to recover all these years, and how much I realize we live in a time and society that greatly appreciates those who make a lot of money. So what's the message to the educators if they're working for a salary that's 17% less than the republican average? Teachers, I don't know, I'll just say that I don't know if recently a teacher's satisfaction analysis has been done with his profession, how many teachers he's found, let me say, that's the measure between the consistency of professional affinity, that's the choice and the personal affinity and what he can do specifically in his work, because these are people who want to be successful, don't forget, they're not just people who come, they keep the hour, they tell and go home. They're people who get very involved, who work very hard. Does everyone work? Not everyone does. Does the system also have to remove it from the system, or does it first help those who are in the system, who are not good enough and who are not trying? It's certainly a system obligation. We humans can't just deprive ourselves of ourselves. If we have received them into the system, we must say – we have admitted to you one day competences that you can do so at any time and in any system. What the system was doing with you I don't know, but we can't deprive people, we have to help people with respect. I particularly apostrophe the word "respect." If we want this law to have its full meaning and if we want it to be good in a few years or whenever we say that these legal changes were good and good, we have good intentions, good conviction and conviction, then we have to show respect. What seems, of course, to teachers, is that there are professional trainings, there are their obligations in this regard. However, the question is to what extent they can realize all this in their schools and to what extent they finally and realised the value of their activities. Teachers have the opportunity to, on the basis of professional training, etc. They're getting calls. But as far as I know, Minister, still those calls they get don't have the equivalent of money. I think that would be a good motivation. I don't know what kind of money anyone expects there, but he expects the difference. The difference between someone who doesn't work, who doesn't work, who stops, who you have to explain why you want a teaching unit or some content to perform interdisciplinaryly, to beg him to participate in it. We must try to encourage the strongest. We need to make a difference. I then believe that many of those who think that chalk and board are still the best way to keep teaching, when they see the difference, will very easily decide that they can too. And this law and everything we do has to make it possible. I talked about it yesterday and you, of course, answered me, we talked about responsibility, we talked about justice. If this law and this entanglement doesn't go in that direction until the end, so visible through practice, we'll be sorry and we'll have this discussion over time, and the right to tell you, I don't know if anyone has any more time in their life, after all the changes that are happening and all the demands that are ahead of us. As for the students, I think we finally have to help this society, all of us, understand that children have human rights. The fact that these children are small, that they come at seven years of age to school or preschool, or any age, this society has to realize that children have human rights. At school, I would use this even as a kind of appeal, it must stop the struggle that arises from the dissatisfaction of all, the fight between teachers and parents and children over who has more rights. Everyone has a right there. It's very common for the public to hear that children have every right in school, and teachers have no right, of course not. Teachers just need to understand that this educational role of school and the capacity that they bring to school as a person must really be not only of great importance, but simply must be an absolutely auxiliary tool and a very important weapon to work with. A working weapon is not a threat to evaluation, it's the most inappropriate form of behavior of anyone in education. The most inappropriate way to behave is to force fear. The most inappropriate way of acting is by not giving answers to those who ask you for answers and who are at school because of their response and have come. Once again, children have human rights and we are obliged to help them understand their rights and obligations. We have to educate them, we have to be patient and again the Ministry and all the institutions of the education system all of their activities in educational and educational terms really have to give as a tool and a tool for teaching, in order to achieve what is quality and what you say, I think, at point 7, as a element of quality assurance, which is an environment. There is no quality education without a positive public environment. Let us not forget, our children come from home to school at the age of six – seven, they come with some habits, they bring them to school, the children from school go to their homes, and then they find themselves in the distance between what the house is, what the public is and what is a teacher and what is a teacher. Children need to have a close relationship with their teachers, but I'm afraid the environment gives one quite opposite picture. Why is that picture different? Because the experience of parents is different, because parents are citizens of this country who are daily under the impression that education may not have given them much in life. Because there are a lot of our citizens waiting very long for work, and the quality of every education system lies right in that secret short time, from the moment you finished your school until the moment you got a job. So it's an environment affected by the school, but we're all affected by it, and we're in the Assembly, and I'm going to say, of course, all the educational authorities and all the authorities in total. As far as these really intriguing issues about setting up a director, what do I think about that? How can I tell you, we can conflict our opinions in one direction or another, but the moment we're as a society sure that only the best will always be chosen, then we don't have a problem. Now, the question is whether we have that impression, whether we have those experiences in life, whether as parents, whether they are working or working in the education system. Of course, all the criteria are clearly stated when calling the competition. If all criteria are absolutely objectively checked, then there really doesn't have to be any problem and you sign 2,000 solutions. But if that's not the case, then even if you don't set it up, it doesn't matter again, it's not gonna be good again. I think when we talk about this issue, it's a big responsibility on local self-government. The fact that three members of the school board come from the class board, it's completely natural. The fact that three are coming from the parents' councils is also very natural, as are these three who come from local self-government. But believe me, parents and teachers at school who are their director seem much more interested than local self-government representatives in terms of quality. What you call lobbying, we know it's not illegal and I don't believe that school teachers invented lobbying, which is generally one model of coming up with something. They saw it. It's our life experience with which we come every day when we do any work of our own. The responsibility of local self-government, these are the representatives of political parties who came there because they were elected. I see no reason not to entrust them with much more responsible tasks under the laws on the proposal of the people they will send. It is not their task only that you talk to them and say: I should paint the school, and since he knows me, he says, "Don't worry, we'll solve it, you'll get the money." It doesn't end work at school in that sense. So it has to be the chosen people. We all know that there are a lot of people interested in working on boards where these boards are paid. We also know that many people who really don't have any contact in their education don't show interest, don't come to meetings. Then you, with these recommendations and many such members of the school board, will sign that consent. Well, I see you don't understand, I mean, the question of the quality of the school board members on each side. You said, they're all making deals, the director knows them, so they're making deals. Well, what's the interest of a member of the school board outside local self-government to set up a bad director? What's his interest? Does he have an interest? Well, if he's interested in not being interested, then he shouldn't be here. If it's nothing to him. For those people who work at school, and for parents, that's a big deal. And it's a big deal to you that you have a successful system and successful directors. So it's not just a question of whether you're going to sign it, it's a question of how you're going to get those candidates. How you're gonna get here, and then I don't think anyone's gonna say it, that's not good because it's in that party. Well, that would be really the most ground floor if we were just talking about people. We're interested in expertise, as we're interested in having a quality teacher. So I'm interested in the expertise and responsibility of everyone in that system and in a member of the school board. Thanks for the applause, but that's my experience. It's my experience, I've been director for 10 years, without being a member of a political party and I have to say I've never been asked. Allow me, no one ever asked me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19608	I'd like to thank my fellow Bycanin. The time has elapsed which belongs to you as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19609	Dear citizens of Serbia, honored guests, honourable MPs and MPs, let me first say what we are discussing here. We are discussing two laws in the field of education, i.e. education policy. One is called a roof law, the foundation of an education and education system, and the other is a law on higher education. I expected these laws to solve some of the problems that we have faced in the last, say, five or ten years very often, both us who have been in the education system and all Serbian citizens who have been able to look at many of these problems are watching TV. Laws are passed in two cases, or when an area is completely unsettled, and then the law edits them, and that's not the case. Or when the area is arranged, and then the law needs to fix, correct or solve some of the problems that eventually arise in that area. Those were my expectations of this law. Unfortunately, for many of the things that are in this law, it is not quite clear to me why they are even presented as a new law when many things remain the same. The things I expected to find, which I expected would be a solution, I didn't find, and many things are, I think, or will be made worse by this law. So, the law not only didn't solve or not solve some problems that were accumulated over time and that we could listen to in public for a long time, but it would create, I think, some new problems. I'm gonna go ahead and count some of these problems and say what the laws are, what these two laws are supposed to say about them, and they're not saying anything. Peer violence, in this law now recognises peer violence, that unlike previous cases when it was not the case, we can now read something about peer violence. However, there are many mechanisms, useful mechanisms, many institutes that are not included in this law. You probably know that for almost two years in public, there was a version of the law, an addition to this law called Alex's Law, which had a pretty thorough analysis and solutions on how to pre-warn peer violence in schools. Many of these solutions have not been adopted. Let's just say, a solution like a temporary suspension of students, an agreement with a student, parental notification, which was also a major failure, I mean in this case, Alexa, when the parents of a bully weren't even informed about what was going on at school. I think it's also a lack of an explicit need to say that the director can lose his license unless he reacts. So there's some kind of indirect, indirect solution, but I think we should make that clearer. One of the problems that will be deepened, I mean by this law, which has already begun to happen, is the solution by which the minister, or ministry, or government can appoint school heads. I think it's totally inadmissible. You know, naming a person as a school director who neither wants a collective nor wants parents at a school is totally the opposite of reason and what can happen in such cases we have the opportunity to look at these days in a primary school in Belgrade, there is still a parent protest against your solution, Mr. Minister, who you named the man that this wider community doesn't want. I don't know if you took that example as relevant when you made an assessment of this article's analysis. You, as a ministry, or as a state, however you like, should have one single important function in the course of the election of the director, which is to control whether these directors are elected in a legally appropriate manner. And, then, that you can interfere with these issues or make some decisions, only if the competition itself or the selection of directors is felerical, if the law is violated or any other failure. You are creating a completely new problem with the introduction of a unique information system of education where schools will be obliged to enter a large number of data on students into a special register, and the availability of that register will be provided exclusively for the Ministry, or Minister. To be even more precise, in addition to the student's personal data, there will also be data that will speak about both education, social and functional status of students. So it's going to be a whole new database, quite complex, quite complex, quite extensive on all students currently active in Serbia and it stays and after that when they are no longer students, when they finish school. It's written in an explanation, it'll be used to improve the education process. It would be nice if you could explain to us, maybe here, how it's going to work. Just to draw attention to the fact that the Commissioner for Public Information has already brought his own court or made a statement about these members of the law and said that this is not in accordance with the Constitution. Okay, let me say a few more things about the Law on Higher Education, and there are also a few issues that have been publicized, which have been known to the general public for a long time, and which I expected will be resolved by law and which have not been solved. One of the biggest problems is, of course, plagiarists. The plagiarists have been talking about the plagiarism for three years, of course it's about the plagiarisms of doctoral thesis, although there may be many others. I expected to find here a little more detail about what a plagiarism is in higher education and how educational institutions should be set up towards it, and how the ministry, or the state, should react if these educational or higher educational institutions do not put themselves towards it at all. It's the current state. So, we all know very well that one minister is accused of having a plagiarized doctorate, that one mayor is accused and that it's actually proven in an analysis that no one will accept to have a plagiarized doctorate, that there are presidents of municipalities that have proven to have plagiarized, whether master or doctoral works, that there are a lot of precise, arranged analyses, computerized, software analyses that have shown this, and that no one wants to react. We will suggest that this law introduces the principle of academic integrity which would then oblige all employees of higher education institutions, then respond appropriately when needed in the case of plagiarized PhDs. This applies to both plagiarized PhDs and autoplagiarists, so any kind of theft, even from itself intellectual property, to advance in careers, to get a job, should be on the academic side of any high school institution to be absolutely unacceptable. Which is why you failed to regulate the way the ministry will react when this is a case, and I don't know if you can answer that. Then we have a special problem that occurred often last year and in previous years in public, which refers to calling at universities. There have been several cases in the last three or four years that people who have been employed as professors at universities have lost their jobs, although not only have they met all the legal criteria and those in the rules for calling, but they should have been promoted to higher calling, and they lost their jobs. I will give you some examples, colleague Grdesic, colleague Medenica, colleague Blagojevic, colleague Ostojić. Imagine, counterpart Ostojić lost his job several years before retirement because he did not leave a good artistic impression. So, a man simply wonders how a choice is being made at a university for a higher calling? Can someone just not vote for the election report for more calling and that person who's a candidate loses his job? That's what happened in a few of the cases I've listed here and that's inadmissible. This creates a complete uncertainty among the teaching staff, creating one will among those who decide. The law was supposed to propose some criteria for knowing when someone could be chosen for more calling and when they couldn't. We have proposed a few amendments that regulate this issue a little more precisely, and I would like you to look at them and say what you think of them. We then have the disenfranchisement or disassembly of the existing system of education, both at the level of primary and higher education, because the national councils that have dealt with many important issues, at both levels, are now falling apart by this law. In the case of higher education, jurisdiction, the most important, which is accreditation goes to the hands of a completely new body that you, Minister, will choose. So, the whole thing is now moving from the National Assembly into the hands of the ministry and the minister, who will set up people who are politically close to him and who will then be able to make decisions about what colleges can do and who can't. You know, I was thinking last night about why this member is even being brought in. I thought, both in the Assembly and in the Government, there is equality in thinking. So the majority in the assembly would not make any different decisions on the choice of the issue, members of the National Council, compared to the minister, ministry or government. They're the same people, from the same coalition, from the same group. After the previous solution, the National Assembly elected members of the National Council. Why would she go into the hands of the ministry now? They can be chosen in the Assembly, and then it actually occurred to me last night when I was thinking, but when the minister chooses them, then there is no debate, so the public cannot see, but, the minister sits well in the office, writes a list of those who are similar to him, and then announces it to the public as members of the National Council. Here, when these people are elected in the National Assembly, there's some discussion, so someone can say that maybe one of them isn't qualified or did something that doesn't recommend it for that function, so at least the public can know, and now they won't even know. Given the general level of decline in media freedoms that has been going on since 2014 in this country, I think what you have suggested is quite in line with the general trend. So the public will have fewer and fewer rights to know what's going on in any area of public policy, in education, in health care, wherever. We have suggested that the way the National Council is chosen remains the way it was, therefore, that it should continue to be chosen by the National Assembly and that this important prerogative, the authority it has so far, should not be taken away from the National Council. It wasn't the work of the National Council so far ideal, there were many problems, but without some specific analysis that you haven't provided us with on what was actually a problem to unmount a system that had been difficult to establish in the last ten years? I don't know how you can suggest a whole new body, which is up to you? I'd like to say a few words about one of the central points that these laws should at least announce they're going to try to solve. It is said in Article 8, I am talking about the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, that one of the objectives of the education system is education, the wider coverage of children by pre-school education and education and the comprehensive involvement of students in education and education systems. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that in Serbia today as many as 41% of children go to kindergarten regularly? So 41%, and from the poorest quintile, so 20% among the poorest families, only 8% of children go to kindergarten regularly. Is there any idea how you'll achieve this broader coverage of preschool children? Do you know how many kids don't go to kindergarten because they don't have enough money to pay for kindergarten? Of course, there is a law that predicts that the most endangered social classes should have priority and that preschool education will be free of charge, but somehow it just turns out that they have the most trouble getting to a place in kindergarten. And that's because cities and local self-governments that regulate that question on the ground say this: well, well, let's say you're unemployed, you have children, and you can look after your child. You're unemployed, you are, you have very low incomes, but you have plenty of time to look after a child, and here, these parents who work a lot, they have a lot of income, they don't really have a lot of time, so they can put the kid in kindergarten. So practice is quite the opposite. In the law you gave a good cause, this is a commendable goal. But there is no solution on how to achieve it. It can be achieved by, say, investing in the construction of kindergartens in a city such as Belgrade, instead of fountains and masts, because there are not enough kindergartens for everyone in Belgrade and by allowing our children to have free access to kindergartens. Also, in Article 71. Serbia's constitution is said to be compulsory and free of charge. How's it for free? Do you know that the sixth or seventh grade student textbook is now reaching 17,000 dinars? In Kosovo, I think it's the same. Maybe it's cheaper than 200 dinars, Mr. Krasic. So, 17,000 dinars. When you take other expenses a child should pay during school. How do you think a family that has an average profit in Serbia of 57,000 dinars, this is official data, can handle it. I don't know how it can hold, and it says in the Serbian Constitution that basic schooling is free. Someone here either didn't read the Constitution or he made a big mistake. So, in addition to these fine goals of high education, some concrete solutions should be given that will allow us to achieve these goals. The kindergartens should be accessible to their children, paid from the city's budget and local municipalities, and basic education and secondary education should also be free of charge so that textbooks for these students will also be covered by the budget of the Republic, the city or local self-government. We'll have more opportunities to talk about the next days when we talk about the amendments. We've handed over about 400 amendments, we've got a lot of solutions we wanted to introduce you to think about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19610	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19611	If I can just give a few answers. Certainly, it is not just a declaration when it comes to increasing the number of preschoolers and it cannot stand now in the law how it will be implemented. It's a loan that's been signed, about 50 million euros, that's what we're talking about, and certainly the price of kindergarten is only 20% of what they need to pay. I agree it'll be less than that. But he takes great care of what gets to us. You've got manipulations everywhere. On the one hand, we want to protect the system from the will of any individual, from fitting the place in kindergartens through what we are going to do informationally will be all available. I think it's the well-being of both schools and parents and the public. So that's the goal. Secondly, I don't know when there was a free elementary education except that it's been declared since I lived in this country, but it never happened. Maybe for the term of office of another minister, not behind mine. Well, at least I don't make such statements, I just know it's just a story. The accreditation and quality-checking committee is now dependent, receiving money from the budget. (Sasa Radulovic: But he does not get from us.) No, no. From the Ministry of Education. I'll show you, here, look on the website. Okay, I can show you. For the reviewers, we pay for their work. Secondly, this new body will be independent. So they'll be living off their incomes. So he doesn't account for anyone. I think it's a good thing. When members are elected, they are chosen by competition. So the government doesn't personally put its members in that body. Now he's got his own members. I think it's some different information. When it comes to acts of violence. Yeah, we talked to the parents of the late student Alexa, and we looked at the possibilities, and we did a lot ourselves, and the whole team of psychologists worked on it. Personally, I'm a fan of hard options and I think suspension is a good measure, but it just wasn't a mature condition to make this go more radical than this. When it comes to acting as head of the school you mention. A worker who has worked there for 30 years as well as a colleague, Mosurovic, but we cannot talk about the main reasons, and that is whether there are legal reasons to make the decision that has been made. Respecting all compliments on the quality of work of the former director himself. We can discuss that. I'm going to talk a lot longer about not being the Ministry who's going to choose. If you wanted to prove it, you could say it, and that would be a simplified version of what we want. So, if we're looking, for example, at me, the German laws were in some kind of role model, Hungarians even went too far. They're all norming now, the state is really God, but if you have a state that's completely broken down in working with systems, it doesn't give a good result. That should fix the one that measures. It's not the question here that I'm looking at a bad contest, and that's why I've been commenting, what my colleague Mariana said, not from that aspect of local self-government. I trust everyone, but there's a clear view of what competences we're looking for. What does that director have to do to be? Their training began – a school for directors. The license has begun. I agree they need to work to see how they can lose. It's something that's very legitimate and we don't have. I don't belong to people who make themselves and other realities beautiful. I don't have those pink glasses, so I personally think that here, at least the minister's role is easy to control. In this home, in the Committee on Education, the Government and the public are sufficient control measures, I really personally think that only raising the competence of managing institutions can raise the level of quality of work of institutions themselves. You must see the competence of professional associates, with some schools visible, somewhere invisible. It's not all black and white. We've got some records that can tell us that from these external school grades, that tool is being repaired. That's what all teams of people are involved in. It can be much more quality, because it must be respected and this relevant supervisory component that it does not now have. I insist on what, when working groups work, the law can't contain everything. It comes from hundreds of new regulations that follow this. It's ETOS school, and I'll agree with you, whether it's a college, whether it's a school, certainly the story of ETOS must be very important, very visible, and these chapters exist now in the school evaluation, but it's not explicitly given what everything is worth. All of this will be publicly available. We have introduced the manner that the Ministry of Science, Education and Technological Development since its arrival a year and a month ago, to explain all the bad situations on the site and all of them are available. And who was replaced and why he was removed, why someone didn't do what he did. We've negotiated a lot with all the relevant bodies, whether they're agencies, whether they're representatives of the Guardians of Citizens, equality, and indeed all of us have come to an agreement. She had objections, I'm not going to say, just fine, but we agreed, and that may have been the reason why we decided a little bit, not just on our side, of course. Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19612	I thank the ministers. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19613	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are today before us two laws. The first draft law on the basis of the education and education system and the second Higher Education Act. At the very beginning, I will say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed legislation. First of all, I think that this, on the one hand, we solve a lot of accumulated problems, to say on one side since 2005, since this law was passed, and on the other hand, we create good conditions to lay the foundation for better education in Serbia. Let's get in line. The minister is ahead of us, we have a comprehensive and systematic law that was previously passed, as I said in 2005. Here we need to be completely honest and say the process of high and high education is something that is going on. So, you don't need to be fooled that by passing the law, all the problems that are piled up we've solved. I have to point out here and be completely honest, and some of your colleagues have done a good job in the past. Here, in front of me is Zarko Obradovic, so I have to mention seven laws in the past period, as far as the textbook is concerned, even over a million students have received free textbooks and five colleges are open. So, I think you're going a good way, too, that the problems ahead of you, that are piled up to solve slowly. That and your experience tells you that you've been in the profession for so many years. When I talk about lawmaking, it's important to say that for months it's been a matter of passing this law, that practically, the task force has been very well employed, but what I find significant and probably significant is a public debate. Was that what it was? There were, I mean, seven public hearings in these two laws. The last one was in Nis, right? The most important thing is that all interested parties participated, to pass one such law and what I still have to say 22 competent bodies give their opinion. It's still to be said here that when we talk about this law, all these points that have been put into the law haven't just been applied to us. Such legal solutions exist in neighbouring countries, like Germany, Hungary, so I don't speak anymore. Coming back to the law itself, I will say that the first objective of lawmaking is certainly quality and allowed for all under equal conditions of education and education, greater efficiency and efficiency of education and education systems, competitiveness in the labour market, competitiveness in the European education and education system, the creation of a new network of institutions. So far experience has shown that all these problems we've discussed cannot be solved, i.e. The only way to get rid of them is by passing the law. It's just that, you see, since 2005, they've been piling up, and only by passing laws can we do them right. The important thing is, we talked about it on the Committee yesterday, to comply with the law in question with the education strategy in Serbia by 2020. The problem that has been present since 2005, i.e. Since the introduction of Bologna, that's those famous 48 points. So, the new law will come up with students, as it goes down to 48 points, is now included in the law, for ranking and funding the burden of the budget. The reduction in the number of points will certainly not generate additional costs, because, in fact, we have had such a situation since 2005. We've had, I'll remind myself, and those protests of students, the 60-point quota of Bologna, and this time it's inaccessible, so now we're putting it into legal frameworks, as far as financing students. As far as the director is concerned, we've heard a variety of opinions about it. The bill introduces newspapers in the management and management system of institutions, so directors will be elected solely on the basis of competences, with compulsory training and licensing, will have extended responsibility, secure working-law status, retired at 65 years of age. So yesterday we heard, so just to be clear, the directors will not have unlimited mandates, but only one term of three years and will be able to extend that mandate just once more. So it's limited how much they're going to be in that job. Here you should be completely honest, Minister, one of them is talking like this, sort of, the democratic vision of the procedure so far has not given the desired results as far as work is concerned. We've had a lot of problems. I don't want to go in there if it was like this, but I have to say that the result is now that the minister's role, the attitude is to be visible. You know exactly who's responsible for that. What's important is, this isn't, again, a lonely example. We have this example in many European countries, and this is something that comes to us right now, to know exactly who and what is doing and what is the responsibility of the company's director. So he has to be responsible. As regards information systems, regular student student programmes are registered through this system, which are assigned a unique educational number to monitor progress in higher education and the basis for the introduction of a new funding system. So every student will be followed. We'll know exactly at all times everything about the student when he gets here. We haven't had that kind of follow-up so far, and I think it's a good thing we should accept it that way. This system, the proposal, lays the basis for electronic documentation of school work. This law also provides for the establishment of employers' councils in each higher education institution, in order to establish a link between higher education and economy. Therefore, it gives the founders, teachers, students the opportunity to start firms, as well as the possibility to engage in the continuing experts from the economy, as well as the lecturer outside the working relationship. So it's possible for someone to, say, work at Telecom, who has expertise in the area, that they can teach and be, say, a lecturer. The introduction of a short study and study programme with work is also envisaged, which allows for practical knowledge and skills to be acquired in line with the needs of the labour market. One important provision, for the first time in the letter of the law, the minister can cancel his degree in acquired education, and not only on official duty, when the disputed diploma was issued by an unauthorized organisation, but if the diploma was signed by a non-authorised person. Here is another item, that the minister can undo an invalidally acquired diploma, but not without the approval of the Committee of Scientists and experts from different areas. One more thing that's important, I don't even know if they mentioned it here, it's about a professor who's 65 years old and needs to retire. Yesterday, we had different opinions on the Committee about this matter, whether the professor should go or not after 65 years and why he has two and two years to 69 years. In defense of that, I must say one important thing. We don't have an adequate replacement on many cases, Professor, when he turns 65. I think this is a good thing on the side that certainly a professor can stay on that subject and not suffer in one part of his class. The bill also significantly improves the accreditation system through the establishment of a national accreditation body. New standards are introduced, as well as the appeal procedure and procedures for issuing work permits and enrolment of students only after the completion of accreditation. Expansion is also a responsibility in the area of banning against violence and discrimination. The responsibility of parents is also prescribed, and the possibility of setting up municipal councils for parents is envisaged, while the institution will also have pedagogical autonomy. Minister, no longer entering into the details of this law, I must say that you have well connected theory and practice. In the end, you've been in this area for so many years. But an important point for you, and I think we said that yesterday and on the board, this law will be fully applied if the private interest is not dominant. I'm saying this all because of the huge number of people who do their jobs with honor and honesty in this area and make their bread in the right way. From everything said, the JS parliamentary group in voting day will support the aforementioned bill's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19614	Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19615	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the SPS will support these two laws because we consider it to be two very important and high-quality laws that further improve the educational system of the Republic of Serbia through both the roof law – the Law on the system of education and education, and through the Law on Higher Education. Let me first say a few words about the Law on Higher Education, then the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I think it was about time that a new Law on Higher Education was passed, given that it was brought before it in 2005. We were in a situation to change it, the minister said on the board eight times yesterday. I'm like the man who ran the education system in one period three times changed that law. We really had the goal of passing a new law back then. We didn't make it. I must express both the personal satisfaction and satisfaction of our parliamentary group to you, Mr. Sarčević, that you have succeeded in this, because it is better to have one comprehensive law with all provisions in one place and then to discuss its application and possible problems. Why? It is noticeable that both in this law and in the second law, you have tried not only to resolve the issues we are facing, but also to further highlight the importance of education, what are the characteristics of education and to link these two laws to Serbia's Education Strategy by 2020. You are right, Serbia should know that it is true that the Education Strategy was adopted in 2012 in November, that action plans were to be made, but for reasons unknown to me, I stopped doing this job in September 2013, the action plans never saw the light of day. It is true that we should be more honest with each other and say what from this strategy is relevant during which we are located and from the point of view of the capacities that we possess and from the point of view of economic opportunities and what we can apply today, what we can apply tomorrow and what education system of the Republic of Serbia we want. I am saying this because I am fully convinced that education is the development opportunity of the Republic of Serbia. Education is the most precious thing we have, because if you take into account the demographic structure of the Republic of Serbia and the fact that we have a negative natural growth and that we have fewer children and that the life span of the population is extended, only greater productivity or higher educational level of the population will be the factor that will help with the innovations that need to be implemented through the scientific and research process and through education, i.e. the staff that completes this educational process, it is the only chance that Serbia can improve its economic development. What I very much like about this law and what I would like to share with you today, fellow Members of the People, with the public of Serbia, is the link established by this law, the link between higher education and the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday I said, maybe a little funny, but as they say, in every joke, it's about time and we'll be in a position to see if we respect the quality of higher education we have or businessmen in an elegant way trying to avoid their obligations to young people who finish our colleges and high school vocational studies. It is not possible for them to say that young people do not have professional competences, the knowledge needed to carry out the work process in the companies they represent, and that these same young people, unfortunately because of jobs they cannot get here or from the need for further education, are very easy to get jobs in Western European countries and our knowledge is recognised as very high quality, but about the quality of higher education a little later. It's important here to mention this institutional relationship that's been woven through the entire Higher Education Act. I'm saying, not by chance, I think it's a special quality of this law. You have institutionally established a link with the economy, holding at least twice a year's meetings with the Chamber of Commerce, normally, to hear what their expectations of higher education are, and that higher education says what the economy thinks about economic flows and that, if possible, the agreement that academic programmes are necessary for the economy, which higher education can produce, is reached. Also, you have introduced short study programmes and it is expensive and it is also part of the obligation of higher education institutions, because it gives the opportunity to carry out professional training of persons with acquired higher education that they can later apply to the work, i.e. through these short study programmes. to possess a certificate which will be able to carry out the work. The board of employers, too, is a very important solution that you have provided for in this law, because with employers, with those colleges who want to, with the advice of employers, it is an opportunity for the economy to express its opinion. You have provided for this member of the law, in several places there are these provisions, but I would only mention a member of the 49th Law that speaks of the possibility of forming an institute within the university, namely from the formation of artistic, or the formation of centres of exceptional values, centres for the development of technology of business-technological incubators. You mentioned it in this context, it doesn't say in the law, it says in the explanation, the University of Novi Sad, the Technical Faculty, which is very, very important, because it shows that our colleges, some already have those practical solutions that need higher education. What is good in this Law on Higher Education, and there are many things that are valuable, unfortunately it is a short time to mention everything, is that you have provided for the possibility of studying with work and provisions that help those who study with work so that within a certain time frame they can complete those studies. So that I don't stay unrecognizable about the issue of forming an institute in relation to what I was saying on the board yesterday, I want to give you the opportunity to say something about considering the position of the institute that the state founded and which have the quality of teaching, what will be their position, because if colleges have the possibility of establishing an institute, and already there are certain institutes from different fields of science set up by the state, what is their further destiny? What I think is the quality of this law is the emphasis on the autonomy of higher education institutions. I'm not saying this by accident. I think that many of us, and even in the area of higher education, do not have full opportunities, or do not fully understand what the content of the autonomy of higher education institutions means. You are here in Article 6, it seems to me, the law very taxingly state what autonomy of higher education institutions is – from the freedom to set study programmes, the ways of studying, the conditions of enrolment of students, the internal organisation, the adoption of statutes, the choice of governing bodies, I stress this because of all the things they try to present themselves in a different way, because of teachers and associates, the issuing of public documents, the availability of financial resources, which will be made available to many higher education institutions and how to rejoice, especially if we accept Mr. Martinovic's amendment, then we will complete the entire system of funding of higher education institutions. I would like, in the context of the autonomy of higher education institutions, and on issues that are open to the independence of the National Educational Council and the way it is elected, to say something about how to choose the National Educational Council. It is important to point out that the government appoints members of the Council, but the government only confirms the university's decision, through Konus and a conference of high school vocational studies. The government only confirms, as Article 11 states that 15 members from the regular professors select a university conference, and the government later only appoints them, two from the ranks of high school teachers. In the previous session, we had exactly the government's representatives, and this will be high-school representatives, and this will be from the order of regular professors. I don't think it makes sense that anyone suspects that the universities, or conics, will choose someone who won't represent their interests in the right way. The same argument is worth looking at if you look at the national accreditation body, because the solution in Article 16 says that the national accreditation body has a board of directors. Who makes the board of directors? The board of directors consists of four members who are proposing a university conference in the order of regular professors and one representative from the academy conference and high schools of vocational studies, again a regular professor. Listen, it's another high school proposal. If you look at the whole accreditation process, it's good that the deadlines are set, it's good that there's first degree, second degree. We haven't been doing this job since yesterday, and I find it odd to hear all these words about the accreditation process. The accreditation process is relatively simple. He's been running for almost a decade. You know exactly the standards set by the National Council for Higher Education, either you meet the conditions or you don't meet the conditions. The whole accreditation process should not be transferred to people working in the accreditation committee. Professor Cemal Dolician is now running the Accreditation Commission. I'm convinced he's very high-quality, and the people in that body are doing a great job, like they did before, but not everyone can be happy. Let's be honest, so let's just say they didn't meet all the conditions to get confidence that they had met the requirements of accreditation. So, higher education has one full autonomy about all these jobs that the law regulates. Let me say two more sentences. Quality, I'm glad this law will continue the good things that exist in higher education. When I said quality, it should not be forgotten that the University of Belgrade entered in 2012 among the 500 best according to the Shanghai list of rankings, one of the most significant lists ranked by universities in the world. It was between 500 then, and now it's between 200 and 300. That says we have quality higher education. I mentioned it on the board yesterday, and today I want to do it again. In May of this year, a study on university efficiency was published in relation to the amount of money invested. Unfortunately, we stand out 3.65% in the education system. The desire of all of us is to make it more. The country's economy is expected to increase that percentage for higher education, but the figure shows that the Belgrade University's efficiency is exceptional and that it ranks first in the world among the universities of 50 countries, as the most efficient university compared to funds. Of course it's small and it needs to be more, but it speaks of one quality that we possess in higher education. I'm not going to mention those individual awards that students or colleges that they represent won over the previous years, and I think in all the analyses, let me say, areas that characterise one country of education and science is something that we can absolutely relate to. When we talk about education, of course I think science needs to be helped in a way that can be done. Anyway, I mentioned just a few things about this Higher Education Act, because I think they're extremely, extremely important. You shouldn't be afraid of the ministry, you shouldn't be afraid of the minister. I'm saying this for the words I heard yesterday. The responsibilities of the ministry are less than the responsibilities of the National Council for Higher Education. Look at the members who regulate it, and you'll see. The autonomy of higher education institutions is fully secured. They are autonomous in what is part of autonomy in the area of higher education. The state has to settle some other things for which the funds are allocated, and that's quite logical. Look at the solutions anywhere in the world, every country, let's say, is autonomous in the way it regulates systems within its borders. The minister himself mentioned that there were different examples, where we applied some of them, so we're not past all these things. Otherwise, in 2005, we started to create a space of higher education, and I will end up with higher education, and it is important to say that we are part of a European high education space and that there is only a sheet of paper that is applied in practice and then it is about standards, values, passability, opportunities for students to continue schooling and I am pleased to say that our higher education has its place in the European space of higher education, which, of course, is seen in different ways. When it comes to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, I think it's about good law. You yourself said that the previous law was passed in 2009 and that you accepted those good solutions that existed back then. I am pleased that you have found solutions to the issues and problems identified in practice in the previous period and you yourself have said – As you rely on the part of the solution contained in this law, you rely on the education strategy of the Republic of Serbia. There is also a need to comply with new regulations, then to use examples of good practice, means a lot of what the content of this law is. For a short period of time, I'll just mention a few things, let me. Dual education is extremely important. I mention this because secondary vocational schools, four years old and three years old, include 77.78% of schools in the middle education structure, if 22.24% of high school. Within the structure of secondary schools, it is extremely important for dual education to find its place and be applied as much as possible. At the time when I ran the system we promoted three educational profiles – locksmith, mechanic of industrial plants and electrician. I must say, we always called on local self-government to participate in the projects at that time. It is very important to look at the capacity of local self-government, the capacity of schools, the capacity of the economy, to make a connection, to have a mentor from the economy, or companies that will help, through the contract, I know that this will be the subject of regulation of a special law, but I think it is important to say that dual education is also very important because of students attending high school and because of the need for Serbia's economy and for the future development of the Republic of Serbia, and I am absolutely sure that this solution will be an integral part of the future law, but it is a good thing that you and dual education have pointed out as important in this law. What else? It is good that, and it must be commended, the members of 52, 53 and 54, training facilities, modern institutions and resource centers, should be commended for those who are high-quality, should learn from those who know, should apply good practice, simply do the system as effective as possible and what should be affirmed. We are sometimes in a position to solve problems both students and students who are not exactly by criteria, grades or length of study, those that are best, but since they are legally all the same, the minister must solve all these problems. These members of the law that speak about training facilities, modern institutions and resource centers say in fact that you have seen very fully the system and role and secondary education and the role of higher education and you are trying to connect, of course, those who work. It's a good thing you're trying to create a joint professional service, which is what Article 134 provides for something like that. I think it's very good that you've precisely defined the issue of suspension, withdrawal of a teacher's license, educator and an expert associate, that you've regulated the takeover of a list employee since we've had solutions in the past that didn't go through. I think the introduction of a single educational number is a very good thing, of course, and the creation of a unique information system. It's a good thing there's a community council of parents, and there's got to be a parent opinion, but there's got to be a solution for the whole educational process. What will be extremely important to you, and I think that's a sensitive question to which you will, it will be a major test in front of you and the entire education system, which is how a network of public institutions will be solved. You then have to bring the criteria and there will be pull, pull, because you know as well as I do that from 1804 schools or 1250 at the level of primary education and 570 at the level of secondary education that is terribly important for each environment to have a school. The issue of the department is also important, rationalization. At the time I ran the system, we reduced about 1,500 departments, but there's still space, because there were some departments with one to three students. The issue of schools is also important, because for many environments it will be a question of the future, because it is a major mechanical inflow towards large city centres, an outflow of population plus a demographic situation. If you don't create a situation that there's a school, it'll trigger some processes that none of us want. I'm glad you spoke yesterday, and even today, that some schools, empty schools, will be used for other solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19616	Thank you, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19617	I'll finish. I'd like to say one more thing in the end. The issue of education is not the issue of any of us individually and there should be no policy. We should talk about how to improve the education of the Republic of Serbia. In our time, we also increased the length of educational...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19618	Thank you, you've got another 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19619	Please, just one more sentence. Really, one more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19620	I couldn't let you, because then the opposition with full right could say – and why won't you let us? You had a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19621	Well, anyway, I thank both the minister and the associates. There'll be an opportunity through the amendments to say other things. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19622	Thank you. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19623	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with associates, I think many of you here have heard the words of one of the greatest minds, it seems to me, of all time, Albert Einstein, who said that every genius is, but if you judge about fish, by its ability to climb a tree, that fish will spend its whole life believing that it is stupid. Our education system not only makes that fish climb a tree, but it makes it come down from a tree and run around a tree and eventually get a grade for all of it. The result is hundreds of thousands of children in our schools sitting in their classrooms believing they're stupid if they didn't understand something in class, that they're not good enough if they didn't get a good grade and that they won't do anything in life if they didn't remember a little thing in the sea of information that they're getting every day. Our schools, and that's true, and everyone who went to school, who has a child who goes to school or knows someone who goes to school, punishes individualism, discourages creativity and rewards only the memorizing and mere reproduction of what the children of the previous day heard in class from teachers. You all know what the phone looks like today, and in the pictures you saw what the phone looked like over a hundred years ago. We know what the car looks like today, what it looked like 150 years ago. It's a very big difference. The only thing that's the same in our lives as 150 years ago is classrooms. Our classrooms look like 100 years ago, our schools look like 100 years ago, our classes look like 100 years ago, and you don't make this bill and offer anything new. But still, we keep talking about how we prepare our children for the future at school, so we'd rather be preparing them for the past than for the future. As in those factories from the beginning of the century, children sit in perfectly flat rows, sitting there for seven, eight hours at school, they have to raise their hand when they want to say something, have a short break to eat, there's someone out there telling them what to think and it's not enough yet, we're still making them compete with each other to get that magic five that's at school, absolutely the only criterion for which someone values them as human beings. Maybe 100 years ago it took the school to look like that. Today the world has changed, today we need different people, today we need creative people, innovative people, communicative people who work together, who are not competing among themselves, we need people who are critical, who are independent and we need a school that will create such people. I think anyone who has two children from their colleagues, probably many colleagues here have more than two children, knows that there are no two of the same children, that there are not two of the same men. In medicine, every patient is approached separately, and yet, in schools alone, we have a situation where the teacher stands with thirty children, each of whom has different needs, different interests, different talents, different abilities, different knowledge, different situations of life, different life dreams and each of these children access identically, tells them the same thing in the same way and expects the same result from them. That's what kills the individuality of our children. Let's see how our education system treats teachers. Teachers, teachers and teachers, I am deeply convinced, have the most important task and the most important role in society. This country is forcing them to educate, educate and teach children about money for which the baby sitter would not guard Mr. Sarcevic. When we look at the salary of a banker, and I don't argue that the salary of a banker should be greater than a teacher, so it's all over the world, to see how we've come to allow the pay of the one who takes care of our money to be ten times the salary of the one who takes care of our children. What kind of message do we send, and what do we make of society? In doing so, right away, teachers are not the problem of our education system, they themselves work in a system that blocks them, in which they do not have a lot of opportunities to bring changes themselves and they fight against over-experienced curricula and programs, against poor school conditions, against small salaries, against extensive, out-of-date and very often incorrect textbooks. The only thing we need to ask ourselves is, when we're passing every law like this, is it too much to ask for personal access to every student? If we can have personalized sites on social networks, if we can even order cars today that will be made according to the personal needs of those who will buy cars, why can't we ask the school to approach each child in such a way as to teach that child how to be a man, not to always feel like that fish they make to climb a tree. Although our children make up 20% of our population, they make up 100% of our future and that is why every law for me is a key law and every debate is one of the key discussions that we have in this assembly. These are the problems in our education and not only in our own, but also in much more developed countries, but we see how we respond to them, given that in this situation I am only interested in our country. You've had a few reforms so far. Let's call them reforms, because they were all just not reforms. First and freshest – uniforms. It seems to me that your words at the time were that uniforms would undo the social differences between children. Even if we put aside that the way you dress is not the only obvious way to show the social difference between children, that statement of yours has few holes. Of course, it is clear that the most important aspect of social differences between our children is not in the way children dress, but in their life prospects. That difference increases every day. Poor children in our society every day have fewer and fewer chances of success, and this will not prevent any uniforms between them and no uniforms and differences between them will be erased. This brings us to the crown of your announced reforms of dual education, which will be divided into those children who can continue schooling, who seem to have education and do something in life and those children who are going to be wrestling during schooling in some factories for no or very small pay, and even after schooling they will lose even those jobs because the jobs for which they are schooling do not exist. Your major reform of the reduction of salaries to the educators, Serbia is the only country in Europe that has reduced wages to educators under the austerity measure, all those pompously announced increases have not even been enough to bring salaries to the level at which they were before the cuts, let alone increase them. Now, when it comes to the increase, the prime minister who doesn't avoid talking about it for the first time is talking about how it's not fair for salaries to increase to those teachers who sit in class and read newspapers and teachers who do their job. I agree, there was no such reserve, Mr. Sarcevic, when you were cutting your salary to the educators, that's when everyone cut their salaries to the educators, because then they were reduced to those who read the newspaper and those who worked hard. Shutting down schools, firing teachers, it's a big reform to shut down a school that few students go to. You avoid answering that question, and many have already lost their jobs, many fear losing their jobs. I think you owe those people who educate our children to say who will be fired, by which criteria, when and what they can do. Of course, my favorite, your scandalous behavior during that experiment with the talented IT department, when you Mr. Sarcevic so easily declared those children untalented who didn't do a good test that you came up with three months before that. That's where your righteous anger didn't end, so you said the following: children who are now enrolled in high school and college parents were supposed to attract them to learn four years ago, not to make their way through relationships. Yeah, that's what you said, to get them to learn. You, Mr. Sarčević, live in a country where the former president of the Republic ended through a relationship and won a degree and you had no word to say about it, but now you are cursing in front of children, directors, teachers and parents. You're sitting in the government with the person who forged her doctoral thesis, and you haven't had a word to say about it, but your anger just collapsed on children, teachers, directors and parents. You've stood out in many other activities, you've announced some sort of charge to parents for unwarranted classes, for children who misbehave, etc. Good luck, you failed, and you didn't put all the luck into new laws. However, one thing in these new laws you have managed to do. You have managed to unite all the people who are involved in education in this country, who are thinking about education, who write about education, and everyone, Mr. Sarčević, is against these laws of yours. People who wrote a strategy to develop education by 2020, people from NGOs, people from the Anti-Corruption Agency, who sent us a sea of objections to these laws, the National Educational Council, the National Council for Higher Education, the Mother Board of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, all object to what you wrote in these laws, but I suppose you know best, only what it says suits you, so you will probably be able to apply it. You're offering us a concept that's completely contrary to modern educational fluids of the 21st century. In 2017, you are offering us the concept of education from the beginning of the 20th century, and you are still talking about some sort of system change and how our education will now flourish. These are, Mr. Sarcevic, the education control laws, not his quality or his promotion. The whole law rarely mentions those who are meant for education, those who learn, and your obsession with the control of the education system can only lead to a deterioration of its quality which, I'm afraid, is not yet at an envious level. As many speakers have already said, grab all power to yourself. You will personally set up, resolve the directors, you have already begun to do so, and until that authority belongs to you. You say, "It's going to be a contest." Now I ask you, Mr. Sarcevic, here's, say, in Perlez, where my father is from, five people meet the conditions that applied to the competition, meet the conditions for the school director. How will you know of these five people whom to choose? So, I suppose, you're going to ask the local government, or you're going to ask someone from your party's local or municipal board. So instead of the school boards, the directors will now be appointed by local SNS committees. In addition to the director, you want to set up the National Educational Council, the National Council for Higher Education. You make decisions on curricula and programs, you approve and choose textbooks, you form the National Body for Accreditation, Quality Control, etc. It's an absurd order of moves you're making. You're talking about the concept of high school, the concept of high school is only in preparation. There are no innovations, no incentives for educational institutions, no teachers to work on them. There are no serious steps to professionalise the profession of teachers. The way you'll value schools, we'll talk about it when it's up to the amendment, is abandoned, Mr. Sarcevic, in the modern world decades ago. Many decades ago, people and countries with education were much more quality than ours, leaving what you are offering us today in 2017. When it comes to higher education, students will continue to pay, pay, pay, they will have no idea what they get for the expensive money their parents are having a hard time providing. Introduce assistants with a doctorate, dispersing from Serbia those who need to lead science in Serbia. Now the question is, why are you passing laws like this, why are you suggesting all this to us? It seems to me that the answer to that lies in what Prime Minister Ana Brnabic here told us when she gave us the exposés, when she told us that the problem with our education is that young people who finish school are not ready for the labour market. She supported this by saying that education does not meet the needs of the economy to testify that 18.5% of graduates wait for work between two and four years. Even so, Ana Brnabic did not tell us how many thousands or tens of thousands of jobs, where jobs, what jobs to do, those young people they can't get a job on, just because they don't know enough. But we can understand from what we're told that Serbia's unemployment is about education, not bad politics, so now that policy that's good is going to fix education that's bad. However, Ana Brnabic does not feel that education is bad because of the double moral standards she promotes, it is not bad because of outdated and out-of-date programmes, it is not bad because of over-accessible access to children, it is not bad because of the humiliating treatment of teachers, because of excessively unreasonable bureaucracy. No, according to the minister, education is bad because it does not prepare children and young people for the labour market. The fact that anyone who has a child who goes to school and anyone who spent any time in school is that education in Serbia is not what should be according to the wishes of responsible parents and courageous, honest teachers. Those students, like her, are discouraged, confused, lied, cheated, exhausted, intimidated and traumatized. That's how it works because it's abandoned, archaic, two-faced, bureaucratic. It's not a problem, Mr. Sarčević, that the finished workers don't come out of it, the problem is that they don't come out of it and that's the basic problem of our education. The politicians of Alexander Vukic are finished people, which means intellectually brave, honest, independent, critical, free and self-aware, obviously they don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19624	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19625	I guess Alexandra Jerkov and I lived in two different countries. I've been working here for four decades in education, and I've probably learned a lot now, and someone who's previously exercised power has probably been more beautiful and more perfect, and it's never been a worse position for educators and salaries than it was in 2009 and in that period. If you thought I was shrinking, that's why I'm too late to cut, so I came when it was cut, but I was able to increase twice as much as the others, and every further increase I hope will be more for our colleagues and that's real. Everything else is just beautiful political stories. I don't know how much someone knows reality and how much they don't want to see it, but exactly the new concept of the education system is changing ways of learning and working. I've said it many times, I don't know how it's left undetected, that it has to be fixed by the position of educators because they have to implement these better concepts. So, the concepts will be learned, the kids won't go crazy with the drumming. So there are new curriculas, programs. I don't see why it couldn't have happened before. Well, I accidentally fell into it, and you can't see it. So you really don't see a tree from the woods. Uniforms, not uniforms, that's just the will. I said let them choose themselves. Two years, and all the countries have, etc. Some of the solutions we offer here have many European countries. I will remind you that chapters 25 and 26 in my mandate and open and closed and that we have respected the European framework and that we have the right to a different development. The Southeast European Education Secretariat is located in Belgrade. You can contact these people who lead it as much as they judge things in this way that happen here, but you probably don't care. I've spent my whole life thinking that you're right when you say that you should be a man and that's the educational function of an institution, and we've tried very hard to make it visible and recognized in this law. But it's easy to write about it in law, it's even harder to do it in action. And the environment, and what someone said here from the MPs, the environment in which the process takes place is very important. We can't make reality better by having parents rich or not. I'm aware of the country I live in. I didn't come here to make a political career, I came here to help with what I've already done in practice. So, you came up with the best educational concept for very enlightening, it's a "ay bi" concept, and we've built a lot of things out of these good concepts, you're about to be able to see for yourself. The disaster and the dual, there'll be opportunities in October, we'll talk about it. Natality is the cause of all our troubles and technological surpluses, not politics or government, or the ministry. When it comes to learning, I'm a supporter of non-stop. There's nothing to hide. I can't agree to be voted by a bunch of wolves, I can't accept that we built a project, if you followed, for information, for high school, for the gifted, because we knew that only for the start of the university centers had the capacity and the staff, and we gave it to them to go. Good will has been at the request of many high school students, to give them a chance. When we gave them a chance, there was a Becay case, if I'm not mistaken, where an attempt on information departments through electrical engineering schools was given four years earlier. What's the indicator when you say 17 out of 24 fell to the prom of gifted kids? Either they weren't well-selected or not well-doed or something else was there. I don't know what it is to insist on good learning and work. I think that's the only thing that can give you better knowledge and quality, not some beauty. We've done a lot of things. So, this information went into fifth grade. Now we're doing our best to help the students on the seventh and eighth, so they can do much better to put up the front desk. We were aware of those results. My answer was to those schools that were beyond being able to form a talent department, because they weren't at this point, going further to do it politically. I didn't let that happen. I can give you statements when I say what. Law complaints. It's normal for you to have 22 bodies, each of you to make your own complaints. There were a lot of them. When you take someone who deals with child protection, they'll put a decimal on each item, so it counts a lot. She sat down with everyone, discussed, agreed. Well, we wouldn't be here. I guess that's the procedure. I don't have any obsession with control, and someone who thinks everything is democratic, that anyone can do whatever they want and have the result you have, so that's what we have. I just agreed to get into something that's already dirty enough and it's hard to fix, so I don't see if it's necessary. You see, in law, you didn't notice that there was only value. You haven't even noticed that there's a huge degree of autonomy in institutions that have achieved these good outcomes. It's all in the law. Excuse me, please, we didn't say what the message was. Well, work properly, organize yourself. He said a colleague earlier – different divorces. Yeah, but that's the institution's autonomy. Why don't the Sandzak region, which has a winter of three months, have a different one? Why don't some regions think, not when it's a religious holiday, but when a pedagogical break is best for children, after how many cycles of work? No one was interested in that. You have this in the Netherlands, Denmark and many other developed countries. Five, six weeks' work, then weeks' rest. So I never said about my colleagues, because I'm part of them, that they don't work, and that's one big mantra. Let me say two minutes. He who enters among young people and works in continuity three, four, five, six hours, it's worse than mines. Take the time in the office sitting, drinking coffee, getting, reading the paper, that's a completely different story. Preparation for teaching, that's a quarter of the working time staff. Have you looked at the solution in the law? Is something touched by that? We kept it all, in the best possible sense. Really, all the unions have been working with us on this intensely. So, by consensus, we've reached almost all the members. Very few deviations were only in a few members. I guess unions are representatives of all the employees in education, and I don't accept these comments because they're, I guess, political. High school reform. I don't know how much you know high school, but I've been in high school for a long time, and I've been a high school student myself, and I know all the models in the world that exist. The reform of high school aims to restore the percentage and need of high school students and to prepare students well for studies. What we have now will not yield results. As much as I say whether you're right or I'm wrong, as much as what's political on one side or not I don't know whose other side is involved, we really asked the profession and you'll get the book, the brochure that's been done just so methodologically that all the teachers, school directors and psychologists in high school are asked what to do. So, not all that stuff at all. Assistants with a doctorate will not endanger anyone. Medicine is the only one who'll be able to apply it realistically. How will school be valued? Here, I'll tell you about it. The tool we found, I'm not the happiest, I said it right now, there's not much in it, but it doesn't matter if some evaluation committee comes in for five years, you have nothing. Let's teach people to just be valuable and that when someone comes to the side, it just fits. They need feedback from that same guy. We talked about ETOS that must be more visible than self-value. I've studied all the learning and work processes in my working life and applied in practice, I really think I know enough about it, but we're building huge teams that will deal with this after the law is passed. So, we've already invited people from various institutions, various bodies, the Institute of Psychology, pedagogy, to come and make the right tool to value teachers' work, not quasi tools. So, since it's not in the law, we're just gonna talk about it. The law doesn't regulate it. The law would be 5,000 pages if it were all written. So, I agree with you on a lot of things, but I accept something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19626	Comrade Jerkov, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19627	Thank you. Mr. Charcevic, I expected us to talk a little more seriously, except for what you are and what we are. But if you want to talk about what we are, what you are, here, I will say that at the time of the Democratic Party's government, the teacher's salary was 500 euros, and today it was 370 euros. If 370 euros is more than 500 euros, then they were lower than they are now, then you have a strange calculation. Maybe you should go to school again. It's not bad to insist, Mr. Sarcevic, on learning and working. It's bad when you're sitting on the team that you're sitting on, to use the expressions of Alexander Vukic, to salt your brains out to children, parents, teachers and directors so that you can't get over the relationship, and to sit with the people in the government that you're sitting with, to work with the people you're sitting with, and to get involved politically with the people you're involved with. You say: He cannot do what He wills. It's obvious to you that everyone does what you want. In some amendments, I have really written in an explanation, and I will tell you now, Mr. Sarčević, that if you yourself were Dositej Obradović, you would have a lot of jurisdiction given to yourself by this law. Don't be angry, even though you said yourself you were a man of great personal capacity, you still didn't reach that level. I'm glad you appreciate teachers. I've never been among those in my life, and I always argue with everyone who says teachers don't work, have three months off, work three hours a day, etc. You're saying their business is like mining, and I guess that's why you think it's okay and their wages are like mining or a little bit lower than they are?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19628	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19629	Dear Vice-Presidents of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers and representatives of the ministry, today we are discussing two system laws in the Serbian Assembly, two of which are, in my opinion, the most important laws this Assembly can and should pass. These are laws that determine the education system from preschool, through primary school, to high school, to college. These laws depend on the future of our children, depending on the future of current students and future students, the future of all Serbian citizens depends. That's why I think it's a shame that these two laws are passed to the Assembly by an emergency procedure. It is not correct and it is not useful, the congregation to give just a few days to read and analyse laws and submit amendments. The logical question is what does the SNS hide and what does it want to hide, so they need system-based laws regarding education to bring back-to-dates in a few days? What are you hiding that we don't need to see, so you're giving us some time? You gave as a reason why you must quickly rationalise in the education system, i.e. some professors and teachers who are technological surpluses must be fired, in order not to have negative consequences for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Well, how could that not have been a negative consequence of the Republic of Serbia's budget for five years, how many SNS have been in power? She's going to be here this year, and she didn't have until yesterday. You know, you didn't explain that topic with technological surpluses. Here, I'm giving you an idea. Otherwise, we all understand that we have fewer children, we realize that we have more school buildings than we have children, that we obviously have more teachers than we have children. That's what I'm asking you, then why are the departments counting 30 kids in class? Why do we have 30 kids in our class? Let's make him have 20 kids tops in his class, so even those who have been on the payroll so far, they stay on the payroll, have what to do, and use schools, and not be empty buildings. So if you wanted to deal with technological surpluses, you could have done it by changing two or three members, it would have been changes and additions and we would have solved that part, and then we would have devoted ourselves to education reform in the right way. Education reform cannot be implemented if no agreement is made in society on what kind of education we want. We need to make a deal between the government and the opposition. Between profession and politics. Between the union and the ministry. The agreement of everyone, what education we want, what programs we want, what parameters we want, and how we're going to get there. Why didn't you offer us a national consensus and tell us – let's agree on these ten points that we'll carry out regardless of who's in power, no matter who's in power and who's in opposition. You said in this room today – every time the minister starts from the beginning, and that's why we tap in the place and it's not good. Well, so that not every time the minister moves from the beginning, why didn't you invite us to a deal? With this law that you have proposed, you have not invited anyone to an agreement, and unfortunately, he thinks that this law will not respond to the main task, which is that when the children finish school they are competent and that they can apply their skills. The essence of the changes you are proposing today concerns the establishment of complete control of the executive authority over education. So, the principle of subordination is established, and hierarchy is established. The minister is headed, the minister is elected directors by the hierarchy, the directors are grading teachers. So we have a clear system of subordination. This concept, which you have proposed, against which we and the Social Democratic Party are, will not therefore vote for this law in which there are some good solutions, this system is completely contrary to what you have written in your explanation and today said several times. Yeah, you need greater autonomy, professional teacher autonomy, greater autonomy, professional school. They should be able to make some extra programs. It's important that the school adapts to every child. All this will not be and cannot be because you are opening this law the possibility that the minister with fear will rule in education. Where there's fear, where there's hierarchy and sub-organization, there's neither creative opinion nor critical opinion, and we can't get the results we'd like to get. What you're doing today, it's a Free Milosevic. They were institutions once, and then Milosevic abolished and seduced them, i.e., put them all under the minister's hat and under the minister's hat. In your concept, the absolute impact of day-to-day politics. And you know why? You may not understand that, you're politicians, you're a minister, you've spent 30 years and more, as you say in education, and you have knowledge from that area, but you're a politician. The minister is a politician, and the government runs politics in one country. And, we can't argue, ministers aren't politicians, there won't be political interference, there won't be party influence. So, Minister, in this law of yours is everything. The minister is God. The Minister brings a national framework. The minister brings in a pre-school education programme. The minister brings in a basic education programme. The minister brings in a high school education program. The minister's choosing the director. The minister's dispensing the director. The minister has a chance in certain cases to resolve both the dean and the rector. In order for the minister to have so much power, you had to degrade the National Educational Council, you had to abolish the authority of education experts who had received earlier from Serbian citizens, or the Serbian Parliament. This is why you are now introducing the National Educational Council to elect the Government, not the Assembly, not the Assembly, and the Assembly Committee, where representatives of all political parties, representatives of citizens from all parts of Serbia, representatives of national minorities who had previously discussed who would be members of the National Educational Council and elected them and the President. So there was a president of the National Educational Council elected by the Serbian Parliament, so he had more authority than the minister. We did not vote for you yesterday, so the assembly voted for the prime minister and the team the prime minister offered in the package. And for the president of the National Education Council, the Assembly voted individually, we knew who he was. Such a personality was guided by the National Educational Council, which made all the most important decisions in the field of education in which the professional people were unequivocally published and whose decisions were published in the “Official Messenger” and the “Procedural Messenger”. Now you're also terminating the jurisdiction of the National Educational Council. All the decisions they have made now are now made by the minister, and the National Educational Council is the advisory body of the minister. The minister, of course, does not have to bind the advice of the National Educational Council unless he likes the advice. You discipline and deceive, so, you say, seducers will have greater jurisdiction. Yeah, but they bring in programs, projects where you give them guidance or demands, give them a deadline relatively short to do something. If they don't do something in that short time, you have the opportunity as minister to replace the director of the office. So, teachers, are rated by the director. The directors answer to you, not to the school board and not to the collective, they'll be scared. Where there's an atmosphere of fear, there's no possibility of development. We cannot expect good results in such a system. It can't be based on just one person, one person. You say – I guarantee you, since I am a professional that there will be no party directors. I tell you, he wants to be all directors. This is the consequence of this law, all directors will be members or sympathisers of the SNS, because you will not have the strength to resist the party's request and the party's order to appoint certain people as directors. If you try to stand up, you'll be replaced, because you too depend on the will of the SNS. Imagine the situation that you are not a minister, because I believe that you have good intentions and you are constantly going from yourself and from what you want to implement in the education system. What if the next day, in a year you fall from power and some other minstar comes, Ljiljana Colic comes, then she cancels Darwin's theory, then what do we do? Then we need to change the law to re-establish the mechanisms that one man can't decide on all the programs and set up all the directors in this country. So think about finding someone malicious in that place, which is control mechanisms when the whole system is practically now dependent on the minister. Why do we talk so much about it and why we're talking today, practically everyone in the opposition, that this system of subordination and hierarchy is bad. Studies show that children who go to schools where there is this professional autonomy in the countries that have developed it, so schools where programs and needs and children are adapted, where teachers themselves add what they think they should, have better results. You know that because you know the tests that were done at the so-called level. PISA tests, at OECD level and some associated countries. According to these tests, unfortunately, we're very showing results. So Serbia is a country that has no oil, no gold, no diamonds, the main resource we have is people. We want our children not to be cheap labour in 2029, or 2035, those who entered the first class today. We need these kids to be educated in 2035 and we want them not to be cheap labour, but to have the competence to do high-paid jobs. According to the 2012 tests, we don't have, unfortunately, later tests, your predecessor solved this problem by not wanting Serbia tested and the good thing is that you've changed it now and we're re-entering that test option, so in 2015 we don't have any. If you look at 2012, so we have 35% functionally illiterate children who finish eighth grade of primary school, and 35%, so in that department of 30 ten is functionally illiterate. It's a disaster. This does not mean that they do not know how to read and write, know how to read and write and know and repeat songs and that their knowledge is exclusively reproductive and that is the lowest level of knowledge. Everyone knows what the capitals of all the countries are but they can't apply it in life or who needs to know who all the capitals of all the countries are and know songs by heart, but they can't separate them from the irrelevant, they can't solve problems and use their knowledge. That's what we're interested in changing, it can't change with such a firm hand and influencing the ministries into education. So, this law will make it possible for the Minister one thing, that's true, it's that Ljub's school director's shift in Zemun, it's not disputed that you'll be able to replace him easily, to replace any director despite what the parents think, what the children think, and what teachers think. We stand for a different concept. What matters to us is what teachers think, what parents think, what needs are and what children's interests are and what they must be in the first place. In order to make a reform, we need to create a social environment so that this reform can be implemented. Reforms cannot be carried out unless we convince citizens that school is important, unless we motivate children to go to school, unless we explain that teachers are someone that parents have to respect, and children have to respect. That's not gonna happen if you tolerate and not sanction those with fake diplomas of fake colleges, but these people are running to the most important places. That's not gonna happen if those who plagiarized doctoral work don't sanction them, but you're proposing them to be the most important places. That's not gonna happen unless you punish and publicly call all those involved in the counterfeiting of the final exams. So it's the ministry's job. It takes a lot of work to implement what already exists, which you've done a lot and taken over in this law. I can also tell you that, even though it was a short time, we managed to determine what one of the things you're hiding in this law is and you're totally the opposite of what you're talking about today, and that's the price of kindergarten being paid by parents of children who go to kindergarten. By law still in force, 80% of those prices are borne by local self-government. Now you're changing that law and writing, local self-government will carry up to 80%. So he can do a lot less. If local self-government, it is the SNS, as it is in power everywhere, reduces contributions to kindergartens, the citizens will automatically have to pay twice as much. So you're introducing the possibility that kindergartens can be twice as expensive. Before you answer your colleagues, we are aware that you need a wider coverage, that even those who don't have money should go, that they have the opportunity to go to kindergartens, and you're opening up an opportunity to increase the price. Here, we have submitted an amendment that says – let local self-government cover at least 80%, and maybe let 100% want the children of that local self-government to have a free kindergarten. Why are you now allowing the price of kindergarten to rise? It's the opposite of what you wrote in the law's reasoning. For these reasons, the SDS will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19630	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19631	Let me start with this 80%. There's going to be a social map, and I don't think anyone who has high incomes can get this favor for this way. This is just an open situation. Of course local self-government has to think well about what they're going to do and how they're going to do it. It's the best, and I agree that he pays all 100% where they have it. Did you run an analysis of how many they don't have? Talk to the presidents of the municipalities and you'll see how much they don't have to meet this quota that's now nailed. So we're not such a rich country. You have someone to use kindergarten because it's very cheap, there's as much money as they want and then you don't have to give it to anyone. It's not a question of this matter, the law here just leaves a valve, and that's what the social map has to talk about. I have to deny something that you've really repeated several times, and it's completely unfounded. The principals are grading teachers. Where did you read that, just explain it to me? It doesn't exist in the law. That's how you define the role of directors and teachers and mine, and you consciously tend to invent it. They'll be evaluated by teams of people and supervisors, and the directors will evaluate some of the work elements, and that's what I'm talking to the unions about. Don't let us bend the truth completely. Have you read Article 9 and 15 of the articles relating to the change in the model of learning and working? I've said at least five times today that it's leaving the drum and reproductive knowledge and learning. I don't know if I should say it 16th time, like we're not sitting in the same room. The letter of tests, yes, did not Minister Verbic, forget to pay before he did, neither did Zarko, has a name, let him remember who he is. Secondly, we made the PISA advice immediately with the Institute of Psychology and saw that we went out then, we would be even worse, because the fourth component was never made in Serbia, which is financial literacy. A huge number of allegations, effort, and work have been done to achieve this. I think we'll make a better score. The purpose of what we're talking about is to change what we're talking about. Do not call me, and I have now received ten messages from the people of the period when you were MPs together and when these laws came much more frequently in urgency. You can't use that argument because you did it. I'll just read it to you, and I'm saving it for tomorrow, you're wrong. Many European countries, since Chapters 25 and 26 have been regulated on what is a common framework, and what each country can do individually. In a vast number of states, I will provide that full information, the minister is either the president of the National Education Council or appoints him. In a huge case, the government is, and in very small numbers, Parliament. Here, you should study it and see that it has nothing to do with it. It is much more important whether this situation is a good result. We've been talking about the form all along like the Ministry or the Executive Authority should have no function. Did bringing state and institution in this way degrade and lead to chaos? We're up to a slight mess. What we're trying to do right now isn't a permanent state of affairs. The question you asked me was asked by the union people. They told me the same thing, we trust you, and we know that you're going to do this with honor, and it's important that we take it back. I answered them, choose always a minister who will not deal with politics except education policy. I'm a really, really educational politician.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19632	Professor Stojmirovic, you're in the system. Did you want a replica as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group? (Ljubisa Stojmirovic: There are at least five before me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19633	Minister, either you didn't understand me, or you didn't see exactly what they wrote in article 189. So local self-government can finance up to 80%. He can't go over. You fixed the law so he couldn't. If there's a rich community he wants, he can't anymore. I'm against it. If they can, let them pay. That's one thing. Another thing – this is what we fear most. You know, that was the property tax code. Then Dinkic said – well, it will be local self-government. We said, do. So they're going to make it smaller. No, of course, no one's cut the charges. They won't stay on that level either. I'm exactly afraid of what you said. He'll say -- I don't have money in the budget, see, I don't have to by law 80%, they'll cut for kindergartens, and then the citizens will have to pay twice as much. That's one thing. Secondly, we cannot compare ourselves simply with all the countries in Europe as far as the system is concerned, because it is a different legacy. You know, in Sweden, the government is setting up judges. Can you imagine a system in Serbia that the government is setting up judges? We can't, but we need to get both the Minister and the Chairman of the Justice Committee out of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. So we can't compare in that sense. I suppose there are some countries where the minister does all that work that you've now put in place. But I just don't think it's good in our system, and I don't think it's going to give a good result, and I can see from your performance today, you're leaving, you know you have a good intention, and I'm giving you an example. Here, tomorrow shifts you, Cholicka comes. What do we do? Are we changing the law completely? So it can't depend on one man. He can't. Because when it depends on one man, if that man is no good, everything goes into the sun, and it's a luxury we can't afford. I'm sure you won't be in that place for the next 10 years. Someone else will come, and then what do we do? That's why there has to be a different mechanism.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19634	I thank my colleague Konstantinovic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19635	Personally, I think the role of parliament, government and any party is that it no longer happens that the minister is not involved in education policies. That's the first one. Second, we talked today that the laws can't last too long. It changes technology, everything lives. It's gonna change this one, too. We mentioned that we were going to change it very quickly, and because of that component we mentioned, because we promised the teachers. You'll have a quick chance. But should we condemn something we haven't tried? So we're now giving one concept based on bad situations and a good efficient model that we might be able to solve. We probably can't make this worse. Here, let's take both the PISA testing both internally and any other, let's try this model. We've installed all positive examples here. We studied 14 European countries. So don't judge in advance whether this is going to work or not. Because if we're giving some results that we've already done, even without the money, which is the introduction of information, the introduction of a lot of things, believe that we've done it with a terrible will. And we didn't complain about whether someone was going to give us the money, the companies came to us, recognized it, and that's something that's now giving us hope. I accepted this for personal reasons to work, just to do Serbia's children's well-being. If many others accept it for the same reason, I will be very happy to come to parliament to always talk to you about it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19636	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19637	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107(1), who says, is injured – the speaker is obliged at the National Assembly session to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. An esteemed colleague in his previous resignation, who you didn't interrupt, insulted this house by saying that we had to do something and that we had to do something, that we had to throw the minister out, that we had to get the executive power out of the judiciary. I think it's an absolute insult to this home, especially from those who didn't have to, but apparently while they ruled, they wanted to bring Serbia to the brink of doom and it's a good thing that we have any schooling at all, that we have any economy, because if they had stayed in power for one more day longer than they had stayed, Serbia probably wouldn't exist either. Looks like by the time the October moon comes, they're starting to get caught by some weird inspiration. So I'm asking you to take care of things like this in the future. What's said is an absolute insult to anyone who sits and thinks about the dignity of this people's home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19638	Thank you. Comrade Komlenski, I agree with you that each of the MPs through the discussion should and must take account, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. However, you must agree with me that I, as chairman, cannot always predict, and sometimes I cannot hear, what is it about what the MPs say, but that is why you, among other things, are there to point to it. I don't think I had any intention, and I didn't hurt that member of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, do you want the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19639	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think today's debate has been quite high quality, especially since it wasn't, except at one point, the stages of being tied up that someone can say that we're not raised, that we're not cultural and so similar. Especially what is on the agenda today and the law that treats the field of education. I'll start to analyze, mostly something that's being said here. When we talk about education, unfortunately, we have forgotten education. That was somewhere in the neighborhood. We've subjected everything to education, and you can't have an educated man unless he's trained enough. To solve this problem, we will have to make sure that from the first days of our children's arrival to the world, and future generations, we raise them to be honest and good citizens, to be raised children, and then eventually education will come. Look, let's say, for example, did you see in the transportation of the city that one of the younger ones got up older, to give up his seat? At the time I was a boy, it was a perfectly normal thing. But now it's all changed. If we'd raised our children in good time, I can't say there wouldn't be, but there would have been less of this peer violence. And we wouldn't have had the things happening to us, unfortunately, to us and to the whole world. On the other hand, we also pushed that education a little bit into the seal. Why? There were times of crisis, there were war years, what was happening to us and somehow it was the easiest thing to do – break through education, it doesn't matter. Even a colleague Jerkov, who is not here now, who is a doctor, is supposed to doctor this year, as far as I've heard, and she may most likely continue this academic career, may be a professor, etc., she says – bankers have ten times the salary of educators. It's normal to have a higher salary. It's not normal. Angela Merkel's when they came to complain and say that teachers have big salaries and that they should have some layers to pay more than they do, she told them – she can't, out. Why? Those bankers, those big experts, the managers, they had to learn what they were selling. Who did they learn from? From his teachers, from his teachers, from his teachers. So teachers and teaching staff must be evaluated as appropriate. This law won't change that, because, normally, it can't change at some point, and our economy has to be stronger and much more to happen, but it's good to have a concept that will take care of educational workers. I'll be happy when the best students, students who have shown by their work and their knowledge deserve to be re-elected in assistant colleges. We somehow forget what was at a time when we were in power, or when you were in power, but somehow our life begins and our knowledge begins when we are the opposition. I hear this fellow who says – academic honesty, the problem is the biggest plagiarism, fake diplomas. Didn't he think of that before? Here, I think most of you remember, Dr. Vojislav Seselj wrote an entire scientific lab, one of those famous books about the plagiarism of one of the professors at law school, I didn't want to mention the name, but you all forgot that. How at the time you didn't get up and say, "Wait, people, it's illegal, it's broken with academic honesty! Remember today! What if it were your judgment then - not by your grandmother, not by your uncles. Later it would have happened less, or it wouldn't have happened at all. But somehow, when we're in power, we think that we're going to be power forever and everything is going to be the way we think it is going to be. We need to work in such a way that even when we are not in power, the laws we bring are in line. Another problem. Most of them here or a number of colleagues asked the minister for free schooling, basics, secondarys, etc. What does that mean for free? Doesn't mean you don't have to pay anything during school. 'Cause somebody's gonna say they don't pay tuition. All right. But they pay for books. Let's make sure no books are paid, so they say – they pay for uniforms, they pay for wardrobes, they have to pay to eat, etc. We're not a country that's rich and has too much to make it possible. We all have to be aware of that. To seek such a thing from the current government or from the current minister is an illusion. That can't happen. Someone mentioned the problem of those school uniforms. The minister says it's academic, who wants uniforms, let him choose who won't, he doesn't have to. If I were to ask myself and if I had any power, I would suggest to the Secretary-General of our Assembly that he provides all the employees from the budget for two sets of summers, two sets of winter uniforms and those who work in the administration and us in the assembly, maybe that would be much better. But that's my opinion. Whether she accepts it and whether the congregation can do it, that's another thing. We have a problem with the selection of directors in primary and secondary schools. Let's be honest. Well, what kind of authority is that, what kind of minister is that if he doesn't have the right to decide on such important matters or even to suggest? He does not choose directly, to say – he and he will be the director, but on proposals coming from the local community, from parents, teachers, he is the one who brings the final word. We had in one of the previous laws changes regarding members of the council at private colleges, so because of the disfavor of private faculty owners, where they were overrun by those who did not own funds, who did not invest their capital, they were a minority on their property, their university, so we changed that. Why is it a problem for a state, which is the founder, who owns it, to have a significant impact on the policy that is being conducted in higher education institutions? I can't understand it's a big problem and it can't be overcome. One of his colleagues said, "You want everything, and you want to make laws, and you want to forgive, and you accept it." Well, in 2000, I got fired from college just because I was a member of the retrograde forces of the red-and-black coalition and something like that sucks. I didn't have a job, I wasn't a big screw, I was chairman of the Educational Committee, though. I think today's discussion was good. You pointed out and we pointed out a lot of things that in this law we think is good and not good. Through the amendments, most likely, some of it will change. We need to be reasonable, we need to give the Minister and the Ministry a chance to see how they run this ministry and try to change a lot of things that didn't work out. My colleague Jerkov, I mention her again, said: our schools are the same as 100 years ago. Here, I wanted to invite her to come to me in Black Trev, visit the Building School, see the Museum of Construction and see how these people who live there, not to say at the end of the world, but in this border space, how they try to create something and educate, to create new, quality people who have shown themselves by their knowledge and skills in areas, especially construction. The minister and the ministry came out and promised us for the next year that they would have a little more attention to focus, to see what could be done to help that end. Normally, the minister can't do it himself. On the other hand, it's about the field trip. I've been to the minister's office, I've proposed to him for certain buildings of school that aren't in office, and they're owned by the Ministry, to be used for those summer schools. Without a problem, he said it was a good idea, that he wanted the Ministry to help through that vision and training and schooling will be able to do both the excursions and the tour of those parts. Here, is Milia here? It's not. And I was at Srlig's, and there's a school that's so abandoned that it could be prepared, arranged, that it really has a function. How long will it take us to change everything that we think is not good in our education system? I think we're gonna need a lot of time. Will we have the strength? If we are wise and realize that the problem of education is the problem of all of us, not just positions or opposition, but the problem of all of us, we will have a chance to solve this problem. We must also treat those people who work in the process of education as they deserve. A colleague just said, I don't know, an average salary of 300 and a few euros, a shame, but the state can't do it anymore. We need to create such an environment where we'll have a 5%, 7%, 10% in the budget, if God does, and then we can do a lot of things. I think in tomorrow and in the days when the amendments are made, there will be a situation and an atmosphere similar to this and we will discuss nice, culturally, without any insult, and we will show that we are truly and educated and educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19640	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19641	Thank you. I'm going to try to sum up a little bit what we've been doing today and maybe some other things that we've remained obliged to say to both the MPs and the general public. The time of preparation for any more serious reform of education is at least two years, which is what European practice and standards say, provided that, above all, the public and the standard of Parliament itself and the determination of all in it. I think the adoption of the strategy was one of the moments, and that moment was not used for later making good action plans and implementing them. We think it might be a new moment now and we tried to cut this time of preparation from two years to a year. I think we've been able to put that in a lot of ways. It may seem to someone that this is all different than it's used to, but I think this has a chance to make a good result. I say, the Finnish model is the most famous. It requires two plus eight years, with a good selection of staff working there and high wages. We have an ambiance in which the IMF is still present, where restrictions and financial consolidation are, not that it's not the same, but the diametric opposite of all that. There's another mantra, as they say in public. Whenever something bad happens anywhere, here, a roof fell in school, anything else, nobody calls local self-government, nobody calls the president of the school board, just everybody, first from the media to the parents calling it a minister, and that's probably some habit of our people, and that's probably a tradition compared to this tradition we mentioned earlier that it's already been discovered as some new tradition. We've had a lot of good projects, and I think we can secure some resources ourselves in the system. My role is that of all of our rational behaviors and all of these newspapers and governments, as well as members of these international institutions, agree that education must be gained more in each subsequent period. I think we'll get a chance to see soon enough. We have formed these commercial models in colleges, where colleges will be able to deal with both scientific and research work, innovations and to keep funds for the further processes of this same species, have already made a major step. Take just the Technical Faculty in Novi Sad, and if it didn't have to come to Schnajder Electric to buy spin-of-colleges, how much resources would stay in the country and how many young scientists could do it, and I think that's now the right opportunity to introduce this. I can tell you that many foreign ambassadors came to the ministry, those who once studied in the former Yugoslavia, of course, in Belgrade. They thus raised a very high price to Belgrade University, and especially now that it has been in the position for two years now that it is between 201 and 301th place. They're asking their children to study with us commercially. I think we're going to start working on this project, see a public-private partnership, because we can't compromise the standard of student dorms, but we can provide accommodation in another way. They saw very strange countries coming to their countries with sound names, but they bring in third, fifth, and 12 professors' furniture, and can now point out the price and quality ratio in favour of Belgrade and Belgrade's university as an advantage. We have concrete arrangements here and we will start making catalogues and there is already a large number of colleges that teach through study programmes in English that will be in that catalogue. Registers of all parts of the education system from preschool to high school have been made. What is very important, very quickly goes the science competition and this register was necessary to be as one of the conditions. You can also see in this register how many people are engaged in how many places, and the question and literal participation in accreditation of people who work in a lot of places will no longer be allowed, and by doing so someone who wants to create private institutions, make quality based, not on the names of sound people and marketing, and later you need to know someone who knows what channels and ways to correct them. We at the beginning of these laws try to make things right, not to happen, because it's too late and it's very bad that we have to fix everything in a lot of ways. I stayed in debt to my colleague Jerkov. It's very important, really, I'm trying to make the school building environment quality. I visit schools not only to open them, but also to assess which one should be given priority. This year we've done 396 schools. Of course, it's not just money from the budget, it's from European loans, it's from various others, and local self-government, there's embassies, especially, say, Norway, Japanese and others. But, people, it's about four billion dinars this year invested in school facilities. If this trend continues and increases, it will be great for the children. Of course psychologists say that the environment gives children a better chance and that they learn better and feel better. We've provided enough computers so far to get IT started as a regular review, to get more ambitious schools started in an electronic journal. These are projects that cost a lot of money in neighbouring countries that are already EU members. We do it one hard way, but very successful. So we were able to ensure that the government understood, another 40 employees who would work in school administrations exactly what the National Educational Council, not this ministry, but the previous ones, resented that we didn't have people, the logistics that would maintain it. Yes, we provided that with the Ministry of Telecommunications and I thank you. Indeed, anyone who does for the benefit of children has done a good job, and that is raising the entire system to an amres network and we are very grateful. We insisted that high schools be more closely connected on optical cables, that they have a better flow so that they can get closer to informational directions more seriously. I think we're going to have a lot of high school information models next year. When I mentioned high school, why children don't choose, and many often through economic school have trade or have, say, easier passing, which someone said, towards economic studies, as the most common choice, and even rights, but what's forgotten, what the Strategy says, what civilization kids need to be given, and that's choice. They can't all have 15 classes from the first year to the fourth year and say, "That's great, classic high school." Yeah, but not everyone's gonna be an economist. High school gives him the right to be an engineer, to be a doctor, to be a vair, whatever. So we didn't offer these election programs to the kids. They were always running away from it, because it would be very expensive. We organized it, and we solved it through a variety of other savings. I think the concept of high school will mean a great selection of subjects. He's not saying now that a child has to choose as a citizen, I don't know, since he went to school. The first year of high school, he can choose an ecological group of objects or programs. If that doesn't suit him or he's young, 15 years old, he can't know what he's going to define himself for, to see, he can move on to law and political science, he can move on to sports and medicine. We've really predicted a lot of packages, and we've preserved all the values of classical high school, and that's what the obituary profession has accepted. Now many teams at the Department of Processing are starting to deal with programs. I think we've stepped one step out of seven miles. I will return to this topic of decentralisation. So, seeing that the system is quite unequal, I use the opportunity to praise the schools that when you go in, you see that everything works great, that even the lack of money didn't reflect that the school has no flowers, that it's not arranged, that there are no bad graphites, that one great community of parents, teachers and students. You see it all that way, and then you have a school where everything is tense. Now there's 40% of each other, 40% of the others, come on, at least this middle, we're going to move quickly towards the better. It's our main job to make it visible to all the schools that have been evaluated by this unit, I say again, that tool is not the happiest, but in the absence of a better, even in the region there is no such one, and we are perfecting that tool. If we raise all schools in one year at least to that two, and the directors have to do it and they have to finish training, he has to be the manager and everything in a row, and then we saw that other bodies could form, and today they're not discussed, not to reduce the number of employees. He spoke to a colleague about lawyers, secretaries, a very important resource we don't know how to use. We put some things into the system to respect the law and help schools not to wander, because lawyers used to be with high schools, basics, actually secretaries. However, we didn't train most of these people to represent the institution in court, because they don't have justice. Many of them do not understand public procurement. That's right. We're looking to make them a body that can work independently and specialize in some of these jobs, and with lower officials, with medium professional training, we get those fathers by schools that lawyers usually do, because there's no one else, and that's what we get at quality. I brought the data here. I think only in a year, while I'm a minister, somewhere over 200,000 grand of money has been paid from the Republic's budget for the backlogs of 2005, 2007, 2009, whichever you want, who you're suing is coming with. So that's where the CEO's haughtiness was first seen, the most common case, because let's say the worker said something, he said, he showed force, and then there was a conflict, there was a cancellation, it takes two or three years. Someone has to work instead of that man at school and there's been some kind of vacuum in a few million-dollar money, because this worker who lost the process is most often returned to work. Someone has to explain, and that's the lawyer, the director, that he doesn't start processes he can't get. That's what we do now, even though we don't have the law, we do education, we call defenses, because why waste money on such nonsense. It's the most common case, suing at all levels with local self-government is a very common phenomenon, which is not paying for transportation, a number of other things. So the whole system has allowed itself to show some of its weaknesses in every place. What are very bad situations, we tried to solve the tools we had, which is an inspection that is insufficient for higher education. What we wanted to say to professional schools is that in the future, we're going to connect them very closely to the economy, much more than the university, because the purpose of their existence is that. In developed countries, let's take Canada, they have a great model, there are national associations that bring these things together, and the state out of the budget doesn't give 100% to them, but up to 40%, 50%, 60%, the highest. At the moment when the economy has no interest, it's shrinking from the state, and that's all we're used to. A lot of things go by the way. So this is a very large area, you just don't know what to fix or protect, whether to give more support to various communities, Roma, students with disabilities, children with individual education programs. A colleague, Korać said, pedagogical assistants have been introduced, many self-governments have no money for it. My colleagues working in preschool institutions feel very neglected because they entered the education system, but their money remained in local self-government while they were at the Ministry of Labour and Socials. They're all trying to get into the system, to have the Republic host them. From there, I don't think that percentage of the amount someone needs to pay for kindergarten, and he's minor, but I'm saying, with a social card, someone won't get a dinar discount, and there are social measures to regulate it individually. When it comes to school equipment, it's not just computers, we're going to try to follow some of the world's trends. For example, Israel is a good example that you at local self-government can group certain cabinets according to scientific disciplines. It's like Valjevo this year. We are doing a center of excellence in technical school, because every year we have 30, now 50 young people remain in Slovenia. They're boys first, so now girls, they're going there because of Burning, there's a high level of professional, everyone stays in line. I went to the dormitory and dormitory, and no one comes back, and the smartest kids leave. I guess we can do something that can be the future. The company "Gorenje" will move from white technique to geomps and modern models of renewable energy use. We're trying to do it now in Valyev. With NIS, we'll try to do it in Banata. The other day we opened another facility, such as Petnica, for the pride of the entire state and for their every honor, that's what people have endured on their own. Of course, the state helped build it, to become something of a world name. Trsic became the second Petnica for the field of language, philology and everything. I think we as the Ministry got the advantage of new objects belonging to us, because we knew, we showed what to do with them. We think that the youth needs more of these centers of different definitions in different regions, because that's the time that children have to use better after school. We had to reset the concept of sports school in some way and do it right, because only the Belgrade Sports High School and the New Sad Dragon Jovine departments have that concept. He wasn't comfortable with kids. A lot of kids weren't exactly athletes, and you have a lot of manipulations, corruption when you're enrolled in certain schools, which are sounding the name of the charter. So these are all phenomena that no school board has tried to solve. We received 36 schools, primary and secondary, in the territory of the Republic about six months ago from the Anti-Corruption Agency, where manipulations in family employment were clearly demonstrated. We've informed every school board that they're taking action because it's dishonest. We were just talking about honorable behavior. No one's replaced anyone. I've had pressures from local bosses or sheriffs as far as I'm concerned, from what I'm entitled to, etc. They probably warned me that I didn't have that right, but it keeps going, it's everyday in the press. So we have all these phenomena that are very, very visible. The last visible phenomenon is, we didn't hide anything, they were manipulations with a small graduation. We couldn't prove whether the process of the exam itself was happening correctly, whether someone was writing, showing mobile and all the other things he was doing, but we had solid evidence in the review through different pens, results, and everything else, and we presented it. I was in Novi Pazar, in some elementary schools, a co-worker who ran it was in Leskovac. We didn't just say, rip their heads off. There are good directors there, but no one has repented, no one has said – well, wait, I've delegated a supervisor, I've sent a professor to my authority to review the tests and he's entrusted with a duty which, if done like this, falls under serious violations of duty. We've had attempts at school space and years ago to betray anyone, unattended, so a strange group of people walks in to shoot some even weirder video of a strange name and group and singer and just for a modern school. At least the director was honest, and she resigned herself. The same thing happened this summer in Prokuplje, two prominent directors of high school and elementary school, unknowingly, may well-intentionedly, have given space without the approval of how the procedure requires and without determining the person who will control whether or not something that is inappropriate will enter there. Of course, there was a Roma wedding in one, and it was depicted as an ethnic event, and in the other was a show of old cars, of course, with girls in costumes, foam, and I don't know what. Really, you'll agree, it's not suitable for schools. The biggest part of the problem is with jobs, because if because of the birth rate, we came into a situation where some people have to be moved and put into law, and these are the groups with the unions that we mentioned, no one can accept people and hold them in the system for 60 days indefinitely, even though the law has predicted once, because then he does not report the situation he has, he makes a budget violation and the state pays and the ones he has brought and pays surpluses that are not allocated. So, I can talk to you about all kinds of mechanisms by morning and read, but here, I'm just going to share today, we're going to share something for tomorrow, but I'm giving you my word, I'm not going to make up for anything I've seen. If I did that then I'd be an honorable man and probably some maybe half politician, I'm neither, but I think this can and must be fixed by just some introduction of order. The introduction of order must be something, not control for control. (Radoslav Milojic: Are you saying politicians are dishonest? No, I didn't mean it that way, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19642	He said half the politician, why did you all get upset?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19643	Half a politician, I'm sorry, I was thinking of myself, because if I'm doing this, then I'm half a politician. I'm asking you really not to realize that these solutions are literally, because if I say that the union is actually negotiating with the ministry, it doesn't mean that there are 30,000 people that this union manager represents. I guess he's done all his duties and business with them, he's done here, too. What was done fundamentally, so the total education public took part in this barbaric, from point to point. A lot of things we didn't agree with each other, but we came to a consensus with common solutions. I'm sorry, just one more thing about the textbook. We'll be able to fix a lot of things here very quickly, to see what we've done in previous periods, to see what it takes for children to read and learn, and to change curricula and programs. I really promise that it will be very transparent and public. I don't have to build any expert groups, except for the ones that will openly invite all well-intentioned citizens, a lot of people work in education, which each will contribute. I've read a lot of blogs and colleagues' reports, and I'll probably invite a lot of them on the team myself, if they want to accept. Of course, I have to commend these people who work at the ministry, because none of them have done anything until now except in their profession and all of them have accepted that we do this together for the benefit of children in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19644	Thank you. It's 15 minutes to six o'clock. Shall we go to the list? The professor won't be able to make it until 6:00, and then Alexander Chabrai and those who will be read to protest me. I can read, but on your responsibility, to defend me tomorrow. The only way to get there is Milija Miletic. He can do it at 10:00 tomorrow, right? Let's do it now. Let's do it by 6:00. By 6:00 p.m., as far as we get, honestly, tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19645	I thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished ministers with associates, Parliament Speaker, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I've chosen the SNS lists. First of all, I would say that as a man, as a parent, I really have great confidence in our minister, Mr. Sarčević, precisely because man has great knowledge, great experience, and precisely because I know that he knows that he chooses his associates. With him in communication, before the coming of this law here in the Assembly, I talked and saw that man with his own knowledge, with his experience wants to make the work of all systems much better, and basic, middle and higher education. Otherwise, I know, there have been a lot of problems, as a man, I think that in the next period of adoption of this law and for the basic system of education and for higher education, we will have the opportunity to provide our children, our students with safer education, more responsible education, and I am sure that this way we will have the opportunity to reroute a large number of our children in time to do certain jobs that have a future. I'm sure and I'm a witness to everything that's been done in the period when Minister Sarcevic is around, he's had a lot of problems, there's going to be a lot of problems, but a lot of problems are being solved. Dear Ministers, I am really giving you maximum support, because I am sure that you will continue to create a policy regarding the ministry that you are leading in the way it suits it. The big problem of our small local self-government is also the problem of selecting the directors, where certain directors lose, I can say, the compass, so tomorrow they forget and find a number of members of the school board's council and thus continue to act in a way that is not appropriate. We have a large number of schools that have just as much damage, because certain directors haven't done their job properly. In this way and this proposal that you've made, I think certain things will be able to change in time, but on the other hand, I'm sure that you, as a responsible man, will always choose those of the highest quality and best people. I'd like to suggest just one thing, I'll be brief, and it's about sports, about fiscultura. We have the opportunity and the need to get as many of our children involved in sports and physical education as possible, but we have in preschool people who can deal with children with physical education, we have from the fifth to eighth grade compulsory physical and health education. I call upon you to find the possibility that this first cycle, we have professional associates, professors of physics who will be able to help these children, because it is the most vulnerable category, I invite you to find the opportunity to give these children the opportunity to work and to practice physical education. Once again, as a MP, I will vote for these laws, because I trust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19646	Thank you. The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. You won't, all right. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. He's not here. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19647	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have two points of the agenda, i.e. a united debate, and two very important system laws are before us – the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and the Law on Higher Education. These laws, first of all, cannot be made for today or yesterday, but for the future of our education and education of our children. I think we all agree that the laws, the reforms that need to be made are very important, and we'll see if there's any shortages in practice, and maybe some of the later laws, you ministers will see it better in practice, whether we'll have to change things again, supplement them or change them systematically. This law should be supported. For us in the Single Serbia, the issue of the education system is very important and the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this proposal, which the government has made, which is on the agenda for decision-making, which should actually create better conditions for the education of our children, because they are in fact the law. At the very beginning, I will say something which is an observation common to both points, and where some very important questions must be answered, let us also see later, in line with these amendments which are proposed which powers are and whether this law can in practice be acceptable and fully implemented. I followed all the stages of this process in draft laws, the requirements of students, colleges, proposals not to final consultations, which I think were seven and that this final one was in Nis. There was a high degree of cooperation between all actors, you showed a very strong will and a desire to make changes, which are very important in this law. What particularly gave me hope is that there are high expectations and I have no doubt that there are good expectations and good hopes of the promoter. Since 2005, when this first law was passed, it has been changed several times, conditions have been created to see a higher quality compared to the laws so far. The Minister of Education has on several occasions convinced me that we should believe that he wants to actually lay quality foundations for higher education and that the task of all of us, or that first step, is to bring the student back to the heart of the event, which is very important, because the school and exists because of the students, and on the other hand, to bring back to our respected teachers, teachers and educators that he always belonged to them, which is why they often lose their self-esteem. I'll talk about it later, if I have time to say something more. That's what's first and foremost. Second, it has long been forgotten that social change and new technologies change students’ needs, their attitude toward school, and their lives. I see here that the proposaler's intention is to emulate the education system with a modern student, because it is the only way we can avoid the misunderstanding and rejection of the teaching programme, the loss of trust in our ability and self-knowledge, the growth of the number of educated but incompetent personnel, the unpreparedness for the labour market, and all the other negative phenomena that have come to us along the way. If we do not adapt this educational practice to the modern requirements of this system and the needs of knowledge, together we will simply lose our chance for economic recovery, but also for the culture and identity of our country. Thirdly, what is very important is that the content of this law, where both the Minister and the Government and the law insist that the relationship with the economy be stronger, we have here a prelude to this dual education on which, on several occasions, the president of our MP, the esteemed Dragan Markovic Palma, said he should be introduced, we believe that dual education should be introduced and that he will give effects. I think the minister has found a solution to link our economy to higher education institutions, this is the link between study and work that can be used and both the student and the economy. Then we have the possibility that a higher education institution can establish a business society, universities and universities will thus be able to cash in on their knowledge. The bill brings a lot of newspapers despite professionalising the management of higher education institutions, the draft also orders universities, say that within nine months of the entry into force of the new law, a competition for the selection of managers, which is also one newspaper. Also, according to our Constitution, basic education is compulsory education. What I would suggest is that secondary school education be included as compulsory education in a later period. Then, the minister gets very high powers, so in this case there is a great burden on him and a great deal of commitment, which is now small and discriminatory. Here he gets the possibility of the minister personally canceling his degree in higher education. What should be particularly commended is that the key to connecting all data on students in the unique information system of education, where there will be a unique educational number now introduced as an unforgivable escort of academics on that educational pathway. We also have a lot of long newspapers, but I'm very weak in time. Unfortunately, we have a subject that has been imposed on us in time and in modern society as an educational measure, which is peer violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19648	Time, colleague Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19649	I'll just finish one more sentence, if that's all right. What is very important, what I would like to say in front of the parliamentary group, is that in the next period you are working on adapting textbooks to be available to all students and trying not to return them, to create a better project where not only children from first to fourth grade or social categories, but to be accessible to all students.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19650	I thank my colleague Obradovic. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19651	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this must be the most important topic that every society faces, because it speaks not only of the present, it speaks of the future. That's why it's not always appropriate for many who want to solve something today, give it to us today, and we'll see what happens later. At the same time, she's extremely responsible, she's not just solving our question, she's solving the question of the future, and we have a huge responsibility to thousands and thousands of students what's going to happen in their lives. There is no more responsible law than this. Of course, I don't want to quote philosophers, but the writer of the "Social Contract" wrote 250 years ago – I come from people as they are, and the law as they could be. I don't want to talk about what kind of people we are, but there's something I can say about society. And if society isn't much better than our education and vice versa, our education is what our society is. I am grateful to the minister for describing this situation in school. Corruption, abuse, parental pressures, low levels, irresponsibility, they're all facts. Now the question is – how are we going to coordinate, let me make a joke with that Kusturicin, I will say, however, in the film "Do you remember Dolly Bell", the conference says – every day we make progress in every way. That's the optimism, but society was different. I'm inclined to say that we often go back, and that happens to other peoples, of course. I would say that even to the American people now, his democracy is going backwards, not to mention something smaller. However, when I was almost ready to believe it, since television every night assures me, one text comes to my hand, which I will give later to the minister, entitled “Citizens and Adversaries of Education Reform”, our reality, a magazine then leading in 1959. I hope the minister finds a lot of inspiration there and sees that in something he is more advanced than what is proposed today. We have a big problem here. We're facing big and fast changes. We can't build a school anymore based on fact-gathering. Erudium's dead. Press the button and you will find it on the Internet, on the "googl" all you need, but you will find it much more superficial and with plenty of such that it is almost unusable. As a result, what information replaces an era, you have more information, but less real depth knowledge, but that's the technology, that's how it's going to work. There goes the speed behind it, the facts change. In a brilliant book of Ericsson not Swedish, but Norwegian, the tyranny of speed is called, it says -- now they're carrying in a bibliography case, these authors who don't prescribe PhDs, they're wearing it in a suitcase, because they're pressing it, whether it's the Internet and it's coming out a few thousand units, if it's supposed to have given it. Nobody reads that anymore. There's no crazy professor who's gonna sit down and read it all. So we're faced with this, there's a big problem in Europe long ago, and it's adapted to this modern type of education where it becomes an important understanding and functionality. So in a class of anyone, in this Western country, you'll see a debate about students, some problem is being solved, there's no one who knows, so come on, now the tops are you and you, the cities are you and, and it's very important, it doesn't mean anything to him anymore. But there's no critical spirit either. So, the school is an authoritarian hierarchy-based organisation, there is a book called "Down School" by Ivan Ilic, because he believed that school teaches citizens of obedience, which is why they are not good citizens, and there is no good state without good citizens. How are we going to make citizens? This is where we come to our topic, what is the goal of education? Is the goal of education just to have someone and to say – it is suitable, it requires economy today, is that it presses there green instead of red, etc., which education promises us or is the goal of education a man, its advancement. Strong must be the primary goal of our education and he must practice to know that he can cross, because the speed of change is enormous from one technology to another, to adapt, and also to have some knowledge that he can. What was called politic or, I don't know, the political education that many pedagogues preached back in the 19th century. Is that what we have today at school or not? She's poor, subject to all the political pressures that exist. We are one society of great political wars, endless and that is the problem of reaching what is called the common good. We speak very often – the government, so the government is a state, and the state is the owner. No, she has to be just the keeper of the common good, not the owner. It's a key question today what we want with these young generations. What bothers me in this law is called the Law of Education and Education. There's very little about education, almost nothing at all, and that's the key question. Education changes, perfects, but education remains like permanent traits of a man's character. Are we raising students to be citizens? What's going on? What a school violence that was unknown. What happens to the ideals they have? What are the values they need to be created in both ways and in what way. Let's not forget, we can pass the law we want, parents and teachers can tell them whatever they want, they watch television for the most part of the time, and what kind of television they watch, what they produce as a value. Only violence, murder, selfishness, crime, pornography, etc. It raises generations. It's a waste of what we say should be noble, good, it's hard to happen. I've had a chance or not, anyway, to be a high school teacher and a teacher and a professor at the university and here and outside, and to be both a scientific worker and to be an MP, sixty-something years of work, I've learned something, I have some experience, but what I can do from all of that is this: that we need constant work and a real feeling that we can do something for the greater good, and that we can be tolerant, to discuss without insults, without wanting to destroy the other one. The other thing that bothers me in this law is some authority. He'll be the minister, the director, we'll narrow down the power. It's the tendency of our society at all that goes from the top. We have one man's government today, let's not fool ourselves that it's something else. What's the problem that we have today? Which is far from democracy, because when Herodotus defines democracy, he says in a negative definition, it is contrary to one man's rule. Why do I find this law not democratic? Democracy today implies, since intermedial democracy has played a lot of things for a citizen, he is gone, behind his back everything is happening, but he wants to be present, to decide something. You've seen the joy of citizens when they can defend some kindergarten, as these now want to defend the school and so on. There he is as a citizen, as a state entity, because he is considered right, equal, and therefore he is in one community, but this way will be harder. I come up with one topic which is why I have proposed one amendment, one law, it's a question of free textbooks. I heard the argument – well, there's no free. There's free. This does not mean that he should also eat at school, although he has a school where it happens, but if you put it in the Constitution – here, basic education. So, you must also punish, as you now threaten these parents who don't send students to school to be punished, while allowing textbooks to go to the market with large circulations, huge ones, these are millions and of course with prices that are above the possibility of paying, and you know how much the average wage is, they're not able to school. What's the consequence? The consequence is that many of these children are not sent to schools, and besides that, there are levels of poverty when children, not to mention only the Roma population, and do not report at birth. We had one debate that showed that over 20% of Roma children born were never registered in birth certificates, of course, then don't call them at school. His problem arises when he is to be employed and has no birth certificate. And that's what's in our society. It's a crime to children. So there's no greater value, more important resource than man, and the younger that's his resource, the greater it is. If we don't come from the depths of the people, where we all came from, all we can do to serve the common good, as good citizens who think not only of themselves but also of their own country to be better, better, more famous, more prominent, we're on the wrong path. That's why I think textbooks have to be free. I'm going to press charges with the Constitutional Court, because a member of 71st says so. Secondly, the practice of all the countries I have consulted is that textbooks are held or held at school, so students from their shelves take them and serve them permanently, or receive full paper. In France, for example, they get both of them, and they bring home, and they have one standing in school. So it's called free education. It's also acceptable for me to make a proposal here about compulsory secondary education. In many countries, there are already 10 years of compulsory education, and in many countries this has now reached compulsory secondary education. We are neither a rich country nor we have such a famous democratic tradition that we can boast with it, that everything will be great and good, that we will all work for the common good, but that is why we must have laws that will at least be in harmony with reality and seriously adhere to them. Svetozar Markovic also noted his time - it is easy to make laws, there is no barbarium in Serbia that you can turn into law, you dress it in an hour, but are these laws respected? Then we get to this second point -- is there any control and what kind of control it is? So, can you control what happens in schools and where education goes as such? We haven't, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, fully consulted the modern teaching and psychological science, what today is perceived as modern. Everyone's in some sort of re-arrangement, everyone's kind of confused by that quick technological change that's going on. Now you have a consequence that children don't know, for example. Multiplication table. What would he know when he presses his cell phone, everyone has it in their pocket, and he tells him that. So there are also huge negative consequences. He can't write a letter. I'm dealing with associates, some young people, they don't know how to write you a letter. So we'll have a declaration on the rescue of the Serb people, etc., all that's nice, but let's teach him to write first. Do they all know how to write Cyrillic or write at all? It's going SNS, okay, cool etc, and that's how it ends. So if we take care of the general good, believe that there is no greater concern, better and more responsible, than care about education, about children, without any politicization. We ruined it. I also have to remind you of what is here in the Assembly, not this one, but a little earlier, brought to you, but to the Serbian. Moral political resemblance. Five school laws, to drive us eight unfortunates out in 1968. That's what the MPs voted for, they voted for it. So, this politicisation, which, in its own time as one party has done enormous damage, because it deprived much of the quality of the people, has continued after this party's work. But since I know he'll jump right away to have that DS, etc., to deny the replicas later, to say that only one member of the DS was the minister of education, and that's Ljuba Davidovic, 100 years ago. Later they were, here to take the last year, Zarko Obradovic, so we go back to Loncar, etc. So no, thanks to the feudalization of coalitions, in which each party takes one resort and then it's the boss. The Democrats made huge mistakes, and I said that at every meeting, because it was scandalous that they were leaving it to coalition partners. It's not luxuriant, to use that expression, so let's let it go, by enlightening grandmother whoever else she wants. In this lies the responsibility of the DS for the current situation, but in a personal sense, in decision making, of course, others. I'm calling for a general debate. I've made a few amendments, and I expect the debate to be tolerated. I must admit that it's an uneasy throw-off that turns into a primitive fight, in which I have no enthusiasm to participate. I hope the minister will consider this, not going to the Constitutional Court, because we've already had this. The Socialists used to be socialists, the SPS voted for it, Minister Obradovic praised me everywhere for launching a free textbook initiative, but the coalition changed and forgot that promise and that orientation. This government has so many social democratic or socialist members, I am surprised that it leads such a neoliberal policy continuously, and here it has representatives of both JUL and SPS and the Social Democrats of Ljajic, etc. It's all some former regime that had one social democratic orientation. I hope that those in the government as a collective body will succeed in fighting for elemental justice, because what is worst that can happen to us is that thousands and thousands of talented children are left out of their reach for poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-20-0.u19652	Thank you. With the discussion of fellow Micunovic, we end today's work and proceeded tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
