ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15058	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 106 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions to start work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15059	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will not speak only as a People's MP, I will speak both as a father and as a husband, because in addition to the questions I want to address today to all citizens of Serbia who have participated in any way...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15060	Ambassador, be kind and only in article 287, please contact the people you ask questions to, and you will be in the context of the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15061	So, aside from the question, I thank you...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15062	Please do not attempt to abuse article 287. This is how you show someone else, not the President of Parliament. Be kind and polite.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15063	If you had listened well, you would have heard that I wanted to ask a question, but I have to make a context for that question. The question will be very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15064	You can't hear yourself, in the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15065	I say, the question will be very clear. I'm just asking you to give me back the time. I want to say thank you all. I know thank you for not having some exclusive today, but this thank you I'm saying today has the weight of a life saved and a great victory. With that weight thanks to all the media, thank you to all the people on social networks who transmitted this information and brought that to all those who eventually helped...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15066	Ambassador, no one knows who you're asking that question to.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15067	I'm going to ask the Ministry of Health. You have to wait for me because you see that there is no such thing as interrupting an MP to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15068	But it says in the Rules of Procedure that I have to run a session around the Rules of Procedure. General rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15069	Which one exactly is it that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15070	All over the Rules of Procedure. Read it once in general. Lawyers never take one word or one position, but they have both members and laws, and the Rules of Procedure are a law for parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15071	Well, now, based on what you said, I could say that the entire Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15072	But it can't. Dayan Nicholic. So, please just let me make a context and ask a question. You did not interrupt any MPs of the ruling majority when he asked questions. Ask a good question. I'll count you in a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15074	So today I want to say thank you individually and know that I've held your hand today, looked you in the eye and said thank you. I want to thank my wife publicly today, without which this would certainly not be possible and without which I am not sure that I would stand upright today. Allow me, she wrote a few words of gratitude that I want to read to you today. "As Sofia's mother, I would like to express my great gratitude to each of you who helped cure my little girl. I'm glad that assistance was collected by those who did not question my husband's political status. They knew that for two years we fought a difficult battle for her to survive. They also knew how serious pathology was, and I'm glad my little girl united all of Serbia. By allowing my child to be treated and healed, you actually saved two lives, hers and mine, because mine without hers doesn't make sense. Sofia is a beautiful and too smart girl and an ethical code is acquired by genes and everyday education and I believe that one day it will stand behind this speaker and many will teach morality, education, humanity and red lines." Sofia or Bojana, Sofia's mom. Bojana and I want to raise Sofia to be open-minded and broad-minded and I believe that one day she will forgive those for whom I have no strength today. I know that in Serbia there are people who have this life dilemma whether there will be some work behind them to be remembered for. They all need to know that the strength and culture of humanity, that the ethics of sharing and giving, that the size of empathy towards others who are in trouble are greater and more significant than any material thing that can remain behind us. This action has shown one great thing, that Serbia, despite many things, is a vital society of great hope. What I think is that all these human and solid people should always be louder than all the obscious, arrogant and opportunistic people who have no problem touching what they don't touch. Today I have a message for those families who are going through everything that we've been through. Life is full of injustice and you have every right to be human and dissatisfied. It's no shame to be tired, not sleepy, scared, but you have to be strong, you have to endure because of those whose side is necessary today. If you hit the wall of the system, do not be afraid to ask for help from people in your environment, from the public, you will be pleasantly surprised at what a good reaction you may encounter. The system is also full of injustices because life is always more innovative than many rules and many laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15075	Thank you very much, MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15076	You've denied me two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15077	It's been a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15078	You've denied me two minutes. I wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15079	We all understood your message, which is why I didn't interrupt you, six and twenty-six. Please don't let us abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15080	President, this is a shame what you did. So, as an MP and as a parent, I owe my gratitude...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15081	Ambassador, please, I will answer the word below, I will repeat your words, only on behalf of my family who is going through terrible things, because of the similar things you're saying here. Don't do that now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15082	But you have no right to do so in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15083	Don't abuse one accident. All families and almost every one of us has one and a tragic case, don't use it for political purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15084	You obviously didn't understand my words.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15085	Don't, because I have a very close person going through a difficult time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15086	You don't let me encourage those people who go through problems, share my story with people. So you didn't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15087	Please, as a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15088	I wanted to encourage people today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15089	A break, please, a minute, because of me, so I can calm down.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15090	This is the scandal you've made now. This is a scandal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15091	I believe, Ambassador Nikolic, it's not nice that you tell me, my family, and maybe someone else is going through it in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15092	No, I'm speaking to the President of Parliament. You didn't let me encourage people...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15093	Please, I'm asking the MPs to be on my side, we're all people, we're all going through different family tragedies, about this to discuss it is beneath every level and about sharing this with us whether someone is scandalous or not scandalous.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15094	Under each level is the way you run the session, that one parent who wants to encourage other people doesn't let them say...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15095	Ambassador, I didn't expect that from you. I didn't expect it from you, I really didn't. I can expect a lot of things in politics, but I can't expect anyone to be willing to cross the line because of politics. I don't have the strength to stand in front of the camera to talk about it, and yet you have the strength. The word is Natas Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15096	First question for you, Madam President. Namely, why is John Nayden, an associate and LDP spokesman forbidden to enter the National Assembly? And on Friday, he was returned from the House's door, and today he is also banned. In this way, it makes it difficult and makes it impossible for a member of parliament to work. Please tell me, what is the basis for the ban on the entry of fellow MPs? Secondly, the purpose of asking these parliamentary questions is generally set out. Is it the purpose of these questions that we, in the interests of citizens and this country, raise questions and ask for answers in order otherwise to prevent any irregularities and abuses, or is it the purpose of these parliamentary issues to simulate the control role of parliament and democracy here? That's why I'm saying this. On December 8, I asked two questions. One was the duration of the emergency situation in the town of Uzic, which has been introduced since January 2014 and with a short break lasts until the day-to-day. So, for three years, it takes an emergency situation in the town of Užica, which leads to the possibility of non-application, i.e. selective application of the Public Procurement Act, which, of course, opens up the possibility of corruption. The law on public procurement is very clear and there are specific cases of non-application, which are a threat to human health, to human safety, to the environment, to the elemental disaster, so it is impossible for three years for such reasons to exist, to actually only selectively apply the Public Procurement Act. That's a question for the Prime Minister. I would mention that this Law on Public Procurement was brought in at the time of DOS rule, which is often attacked here, and such a standard has been raised which is not met today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15099	Thank you. I'll check on your advisor. You are employed by advisers Kenan Hajdarevic and Djordje Zujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15100	He's a spokesman. Not only do employees enter the Assembly. Jovan Naydenov, check out the spokesman and LDP associate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15101	I don't know about this because no one's even answered under that name. We'll check with the Secretariat, don't worry, it's no problem at all. The rest of us will pass on the questions. I agree with you, I said that, questions are completely losing their meaning under Rule 287, and we're all talking here, except we're asking questions to government members. There is always a form for someone to address both the MPs and the public about all our difficult life situations. I'm saying, just because I'm in such a life situation, I don't want all of us doing it here on the tide, but doing some other stuff here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15102	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask the question of Minister of Education Mladen Sarčević. How is it possible for the Minister of Education Mladen Sarcevic to propose to the Serbian government that Marko Milenkovic be appointed State Secretary at the Ministry of Education just a few days after we Serbian radicals forced him to resign because he had betrayed our party at the time of the election campaign by campaigning for our rivals, acting as a forward candidate, Alexander Vukic? We, therefore, condemned this extremely immoral act, have evidence of what he was doing in that sense, that he went from house to house to house of our members, sympathisers or people who gave us a safe voice and explained that everything that Vukic and I had said in advance that Vukic would be president and I would be prime minister. So he knocked us down from about 20% of the votes we had in the last election to 3%. He confirmed that role and gave an interview to the newspaper. There is no doubt about it, but this is not about Mark Milenkovic, but it is about Minister of Education Mladen Sarčević, who, in this act, shows that he is an extremely immoral person. How can he suffer in his cabinet as secretary of state a man who has acted so immorally? Look out, the Secretary of State is the highest official function in the country. It's the rank of the colonel general to explain more plastic to you. So a man who has been morally repudiated to the limit, is promoted to the highest civil order or class. Then what kind of minister of education is that? Does such a minister of education deserve to stay in the government? Why can't he resign? And since the government has allowed itself to accept such a proposal, because it has already been through the government, and without discussion, how informed I am. So, everything was pre-arranged, calculated. And now, it is an invitation to everyone else from other parties – betray your party do what is morally the worst, here you will receive a reward that will be a material satisfaction for this difficult moral loss. Because, in the state of our society, moral values are at an increasing price, only material values prevail, and because of these material values, people are, as you can see, ready to do the worst possible things. Marko Milenkovic was a senior party official, a national MP, not anyone. What did he sell out for? For the office of Secretary of State. Because if he were principled, he wouldn't want to go to any party anymore. Well, if he wants to go to some party, to another opposition party, but he goes to the ruling party, which he fought until yesterday, at the prime minister who attacked by yesterday with the most difficult words and expressions. Now he's going there. Now he's gonna say, he was a fool before, he wasn't a fool anymore. He used to be a fool when he was a persecuted opposition, and now he's smart when he's on state mangers. Shut up, Nemanja, when I'm talking. What do you call that act? It's a terrible thing to imagine. Anything's possible with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15103	Thank you. You've overstepped your five minutes, MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15104	I expect Minister Mladen Sarcevic to resign urgently.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15105	Okay, he won't resign, but he'll respond to you in accordance with Article 287. (Vojislav Seselj: How do you know Maya won't resign? He won't, he won't. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm kidding, of course. (Vojislav Seselj: So it is clear to you that Minister Sarcevic should resign. No, no, no, Marko Djurisic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15106	Thank you, President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Energy, Mr. Antic, about the EPS situation. Is it true that the state of Serbia has imported electricity worth more than $50m since the beginning of this year? Is it true that EPS produced 12.5% less electricity in February of this year than in the same month of 2016? Is it true that EPS produced only 55% of the planned production of electricity in March of this year? Is it true that since the beginning of March 1/2 the capacity of the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant in Obrenovac is out of operation, not because it's just planned repairs, but the inability to manage the EPS? Did Kolubara produce, that is, only 70% of the planned amount of coal in March of this year, and is today only 44% of the planned amount of coal in Obrenovac? And is it possible that a man who has already been a member of 13 months against the law passed by this National Assembly, acting as CEO of the EPS, Mr. Greek, is a candidate in the most recent round of candidates to elect a new EPS director? Was he or another of the EPS executives responsible for falsifying the electricity bill that the Serbian citizens received in January of the month and who personally denied that they were counterfeited and there was any problem, and only when the Prime Minister reacted and said that there were some citizens complaining to him, the director, Mr. Greek and, in turn, the new director, the EPS Director-General reacted and allegedly admitted the EPS's error and attempted to manipulate electricity bills. Serbia's electricity industry is the most important state-owned enterprises and in general a business in Serbia and this irresponsible behaviour of the people who run it, with the obvious blessing of both Prime Minister and Minister Antic will have long-term negative effects on the economy and on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Does Minister Antic intend to react in any way or not? The second question, I would like to ask Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic if he will arrive today at 1800 hours at Hercegovica Street in Savamalaj to tell citizens who will gather there who are complete idiots who crashed three objects a year ago and suspended the state of Serbia for several hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15107	Thank you, MP. In the part where you asked if the prime minister would come here or in some street here. No, he won't be able to come today, he's in Leskovac at the opening of a 15km reconstructed Vinarce-Gjordjevo railway station in Leskovac. (Marko Djurisic: I didn't ask you.) ) Well, by Article 287, I can answer you, and they'll be written in writing. So, he's going to do some work on building Corridor 10 highway E75, the tunnel section of Mannajle-Vladic's Han. I'll give you a report, it's no problem, I'll ask him to send you a report on his political engagement as Prime Minister. The word is Slavisa Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15108	Dear People's MPs, Madam President, my question concerns or refers to Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar. In fact, as you know, the government of the Republic of Serbia recently adopted a human resources plan by the health ministry that involves hiring over two thousand new health workers, namely 2,010 new employees. We also heard Minister Loncara, who explained the plan, said that for the first time in Serbia's recent history, the health sector is being viewed, so above all as a sector not as a prey but as a sector that has to and can be improved. We were able to see on the health ministry site about which healthcare institutions across Serbia are said to be responsible for calling competitions and taking advantage of the possibility, the government's decision, among other things the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina 229 newly employed, the General Hospital of Subotica, Kragujevac, to Novi Pazar. So it is said throughout Serbia, and there are no health institutions from the KIM area, whether by the arches of Alexander Vukic and this government, Kosovo and Metohija are not within their imagined borders of Serbia. I have to say that from the Health Centre in Kosovo Mitrovica in recent years over 30 doctors have retired, unfortunately, no one has been admitted to their post. Many, to put it this way, younger doctors in Kosovo Mitrovica, who have received specialisation, are unable to go to training and take advantage of this possibility for the simple reason that there is no one in their places to work in health homes and institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Also, during the election campaign, Aleksandar Vucic spoke of large and numerous health investments throughout Serbia. Also, there are no health institutions from Kosovo and Metohija on the list. It is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, past the Constitution, is denying the health system in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, which, according to the Brussels ultimatum, is clearly required, by the end of 2018, to integrate into so-called. The health system of self-proclaimed authorities in Pristina. Also, on the eve of these last elections, I must say, Serbs with KIM have been pointed out and invited to vote massively for Alexander Vukic and this government, that at no cost they do not vote for representatives of the Kosovo authorities, because they allegedly recognised Kosovo because they have done the most evil and the most damage to Kosovo. I just have to say very briefly, during the administration of that so-called. The government of Serbia in KIM has built several, I will only count: Children's clinic in Kosovo Mitrovica, Home of Health in Strpc, Infectious Department in Kosovo Mitrovica, Home of Health in Prilužje, Department of Nephrology and Dialysis in Kosovo Mitrovica and the House of Health and Internist Block in Kosovo Mitrovica, acquired a modern scanner, etc. What is important, then, the government did not ask the EU for these investments, nor Angela Merkel for any kind of authorisation. I must finally, for the sake of the truth, say the fact that, before the last parliamentary elections in 2016, Alexander Vukic opened a maternity home in Pasjani in the municipality of Gjilana. That is true, but what he did not tell the Serbian public, that this maternity home was not financed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor did he, but unfortunately, financed by self-proclaimed authority in Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15109	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15110	I have a question for the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, and you the chairman, since you answer today on his behalf, you can also give an answer, but of course, and I expect him to answer this question, especially because since December he refuses to answer the persistent and constant questions of Dveri – what is the business relationship with Nenada Kovaca, called Nasha Roming or Neša Samsung? We have repeatedly asked this question, and in particular we updated two months ago, when we published surveillance tapes and transcripts of the same talks, which were classified as a state secret, and were collected with the operation "Balkan Warrior – Research of the Darko Saric drug clan". Here I have transcripts marked as a state secret, and it concerns talks between Zoran Ćopić, called Ćop, who was legally convicted of money laundering of the Darko Saric clan in Serbia and BiH and who performed in 18.2.2009 at 11.40 p.m. with Nenad Kovac and the same day at 11.16 p.m. with Sava Terzic. Mr. Nenad Kovac is the godfather of Nikola Petrovic, godfather of Alexander Vukic. Moreover, they have joint ventures, several joint firms, including the Eko Energi Group, where Nikola Petrovic was the director before becoming the director of the "Electro Network of Serbia". When he became the director of "Electro Networks of Serbia", the first job that Elektro Network did was to join the private mini power plant "Eco Energi Group" on the "Electro Network of Serbia", and now that he has left the Power Network, he has returned to being the director of the "Eco Energi Group". Did Nenad Kovac, formerly a close associate of the late Miki Rakic, Boris Tadic and Dragan Dilas and DS Financer finance the debts of the daily "Justice" of several million euros and thus establish co-operation between Aleksandar Vukic and the cabinet of Boris Tadic and bestow later the establishment of the SNS? Why does Aleksandar Vukic refuse to answer these questions, and another specific question – does he, with the authority and political power he has as Prime Minister, influence the affairs of his godfather, Nikola Petrovic and his godfather, Nenad Kovac, are going uninterrupted and protected from prosecution? I would also remind you that the lawyer of the company "Eko Enerji grup" and tandem Petrovic – Kovac is the current head of BIA Aleksandar Djordjevic. Also, Nenada Kovaca's godfather is Mr. Ljubivoje Djordjevic, and all of them together cover the private interests of Mr. Kovaca, called Neša Roming, who is involved in the drug laundering of Darko Saric. That's what these transcripts confirm. In fact, in 18.2.2009, these talks show that those persons bought all electronic apparatus from the company Ditium riljšns, which was owned by the head of the cabinet of then-Ivica Dacic police minister, Branko Lazarevic, who is currently being tried in the Special Court and where the listening transcripts are excluded from the evidence files. Ćopic, who, I repeat, was convicted of ruining companies by laundering money for Darko Saric, is asking about buying the company, so that they can buy the company "Mitrosrem" based on it. We have published over 60 video conversations where Zoran Ćopić – Ćopa is talking to various so-called Businesses, with judges, with many bankers, where money is being laundered from narcotics, that the entire privatisation in Serbia in the largest was exactly the money laundering made at the cocaine trade. Still, for two months, no official state body has responded. No one has invited us to ask us how we publish state secrets, no one will answer how it is possible to judge Saric, Jestrovic and Copic, and not be tried by Kovac, Terzic and numerous bankers and businessmen such as Bogdan Rodic, such as directors of various banks, Kordic from Komercijalna, Jovanovic from AIK, Jovanovic from Pireus, etc. That's the real question and the real affair. Does the Busplus system serve to launder cocaine money? In 2014, here was the only SNS MP to say that it was in the media, 2014 SNS, so, it sent it, here it was, here it was, on 8 March 2014, at 14 o'clock, 27 minutes and 10 seconds, you took pictures and you sent it to all the media CDs, where you sent some transcripts, but you set up transcripts for Sava Terzic, who is the person who manages Busplus, to be left out part of the conversation where Nenad Kovac is mentioned. Why? To hide the godfather of the Wolf's godfather. Is SNS... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15111	Thank you. I can't answer your question. You mentioned some starlets. I only know where Parliament Speaker Nogo is today, I apologize, the President of Parliament is here. I'm a man and I'm going through different life dramas, so I can't always be focused, but I'm trying to do my job, which I expect from everyone. I know where the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is today, the elected president, and this second, I don't know, I've been told by the vice president that you mentioned the nicknames of some starlets and I don't really know. I don't know who can answer that. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15112	Thank you, Your Honor. Since I know that the future of our Serbia and southeast of Serbia is the development of agriculture, I would like to ask a few questions about this portfolio. The first question is the minister without portfolio, Mr. Krkobibic, related to cooperatives. Since we have heard that the competent ministry will provide funding in the coming period, and are already being prepared within the budget, and that it will have the opportunity to stimulate the creation of new cooperatives in Serbia with a special emphasis on the east and south of Serbia. Since I come from an undeveloped municipality, which has a chance through cooperatives, through cooperatives, I ask Mr. Minister when and if the regulation is made, how will these cooperatives be formed and how will they be financed and how will they receive the funds of that cooperative? All we know is that the talks with Mr. Minister have been prepared and I have information that up to 50,000 euros will be allocated to the formation of new cooperatives, and for these older cooperatives that formed earlier, up to 100,000 euros will be provided for them. I think that's good, and I think that we need to put together a merger accent to the maximum right now, and only by that association do we have a chance to help develop agriculture in undeveloped areas, mountain-mounted areas such as the Municipality of Svrljig, such as the municipality of Bela Palanka, Sokobanja, Knjižvac, Babusnica and other municipalities. The same question to the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Nedimovic, does the Ministry of Agriculture have any other means that will be defined for association and for cooperative? I know that ten days ago a regulation has already been passed that helps large numbers of municipalities, i.e. people living in underdeveloped municipalities, and I support it, because that is the only way, by association, through cooperative society, we have a chance to ensure both the placement and the control of products and, of course, we will have a higher employment of our people and we will have the ability to control how it works, that there is no gray market. The same question to the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is related to the mutilation of the throat of cattle and to the way it is done. A specific question to the Institute of cattle farming in Zemun - is it possible, since we all know that for every breeding throat, sheep, goats, cows, 25 thousand dinars, there are cows, and seven thousand dinars are obtained for the mutilated throat of sheep. It takes a certain period of time to reach each wrapped throat. The Institute of cattle farming in Zemun is a roof institution here in Serbia, while the Departman is in Novi Sad for cattle farming for Vojvodina. In Vojvodina, the possibility of dipping the throat is done the following way, because it only takes one female high-quality breeding throat, whether it is a calf, lamb or a goat, or it is desembled or a breeding ram with it in a year's time for a man in Vojvodina or a cattleman in Vojvodina to get a RB number, and by the very same time he gets a RB number, he has the opportunity to compete and receive funds from the Ministry of Agriculture, while in this part where the Institute for the Breeding of Zemun works and controls, it takes five years for the cattleman to receive a premium for the lubricated throat. Those are the next steps. You get an RB number and then, first, second and third generation can only get an HB number, that's the final number when you get a substituted throat premium. I'm asking if there's a possibility that the Institute of cattle farming in Zemun is doing the same as the Department in Novi Sad, because we all know that we're all the same country, and I think that in this part of Serbia, where the Institute of cattle is covering Zemun, that even when the throat is marked with the RB number, then that throat has the opportunity to use the premium given by the Ministry of Agriculture, and I note that it's a premium of 25,000 dinars for a cow, or for a heifer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15114	Thank you, MP. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15115	Thank you. Serbian citizens know very well that respect for the rules is a key matter for the functioning of a society, respect for laws, rules, procedures. This Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are one of those rules and procedures that should be respected. In particular, Article 287, which speaks precisely about these parliamentary issues that we are just asking, says that the MP has the right to ask these questions on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and he also says that the persons of this member, or republican officials, the president of the National Assembly, are obliged to request a notice, or an explanation of the delivery in writing to the MP within 15 days. So, in writing, not oral arguments. That is the rule, or Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since he started working this National Assembly meeting, the DJB Group has asked 17 questions to the Prime Minister and nine questions to the speaker of the Assembly, which we have not received an answer to, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Last Thursday, we also asked the 18th question to the Prime Minister and the tenth question to the speaker of the Assembly that we did not get an answer to. We asked the Prime Minister one question on October 19th 2016, so over six months. We're building roads, which is a good thing, but it's also important how these roads are built, which is the economic benefit for the Republic of Serbia, so we asked the question about the road from LJG to Preljina, is it true that the Azerbaijani firm Azvirt is engaged in the construction of the road from LJG to Preljina, imports of oil from Azerbaijan without paying customs, excise duty and VAT, about how much oil it is, is it true that it further resells oil to our subcontractors such as "Planum" for example. at full market prices and why is that allowed? Then, is it true that the company has leased the "S Sovo" separation to remove a twisted stone aggregate, which also sells to our subcontractors at 35 euros per cubic metre while the market price is 21 euros. Why does the prime minister, or government, allow all agencies to behave like this and draw money from citizens of Serbia? This is about corruption directly. We haven't received the answer to this date, so the question is again to the Prime Minister why is this happening, and why isn't he responding to the DJB's MPs? Let me also explain to the citizens that when we ask such a question of the professional service of the Assembly one such letter and instruct it to a republican official to whom we have asked the question, so that it does not come from us but from the Service of the National Assembly and there is no doubt that we have not received any answers to these memos. There are still many questions to be asked to the Prime Minister, however, I will now move on to the President of the Assembly, who is obliged to follow the rules, because if she does not respect the rules, then we are drawing the conclusion that the whole society is still, from the Assembly, ignoring the rules and not acting on them. Of course, it is again a member of 287 where the President of the Assembly is obliged to, in writing, not verbally inform us where the Prime Minister is today, whether in Leskovec or elsewhere, but to answer questions in writing, otherwise it violates Article 287. For example, we asked the President of the Assembly on 16 November 2016 when the annual work programme of the National Assembly was to be adopted, as prescribed by Article 28(1). The Rules of Procedure, because we've been working completely versed for over five months. This five months was about that 16th of November. It's been nine months and we don't have an answer to this question. Also, on 26 October, we asked a question regarding Article 157(2). A Rules of Procedure which says that when the agenda is being set up, and I will read here, a debate on certain legal proposals and decisions can be combined, and says that the National Assembly can conduct a joint principle search, however, only on the draft laws that are conditional on each other or are mutually linked to them. The violation of this rule continues and is discussed within one item of the agenda, about things that are simply not connected. I ask the President of the National Assembly to respect Article 287 that he does not respond orally and to answer all these questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15116	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15117	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before moving on to the parliamentary issue, to congratulate the previous speaker on winning the invalid ballots in the previous elections. Even so, winning was close, but still beat the invalid ballots. So, at the end of February of this year, a protest was held between the citizens of Vracar, part of Vracar, a meeting of the disputed situation around the park, which is surrounded by the streets of Tomas Ježa, Milesevska and Radoslav Grujic. The epilogue of this problem is that these days work intensively to find a solution, so a lasting solution, that problem will be found and a solution will be found. There will be a solution, but thanks to the excessively rapid and timely reaction of the Vračar municipality, i.e. the management of the Vracar municipality, as well as the authorities in the city administration, but most thanks to the citizens of Vračar. What exactly is this about? It's about a screw-up of DS back in 2012, which was then managed by Vračar City Municipality, whose consequences we are removing today. After two failed attempts, in 2009 and 2011, Vračar municipality, from the third time in 2012, managed to annul the land expropriation decision that was nationalized, which was used as a park until today. The Directorate for City Building Land, whose director was also from the DS during that period, although she had complained twice about the solution, is not curious for the third time, magically complaining, making it a direct road for the land to become private property and perhaps to build a building on the land in the future. In order to preserve and protect this park permanently, Vračar City Municipality, in co-operation with, again, the citizens of that part of Vračar, has launched an initiative to amend the plan of a detailed regulation of this part. The request was submitted to the City of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has recognised the effort and I am confident that this problem will be resolved in the most recent period, that is, adopted. By changing the plan of detailed regulation, this area will be declared a public area, and that is the only way, so the only legal way to preserve this park. My question to the authorities in the city administration and the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, as well as the Ministry of Oversight, is it – will the responsibility of the municipality bodies of Vračar Municipality and the persons in the municipal administration of Vračar municipality, who, then, should I repeat for the sake of the citizens, led by DS, or ruled by Vračar municipality, be held in a tentuous manner against public interest? Then who will be responsible for any new costs in this regard? So, for a new draft plan of detailed regulation and all the other costs? Who's going to bear those costs? So to determine whether ignorance and intricacies or indifference and neglect of the head of the Vračar municipality are to blame for all this and lead to such a situation, or whether there may have been conscious treatment against the public interest, or for someone's private interest, in a people known as corruption. We also have an example of the ultimate insolence and hypocrisy. In fact, when it was organized to mention the protest of the citizens of Vračar, so to repeat, the justified protest of the inhabitants of these streets, we could see representatives of the DS, the municipal board, who tried in a miserable way to score some political point from the whole situation, fortunately completely unsuccessfully. So imagine the insolence, they dared to protest those most direct to blame for what happened. So there was a certain Bogdan Daddy. I guess he's the chairman of the D.S. Municipal Committee on Vracar, who even tried to make some kind of incident. What is this Bogdan Daddy famous for? It is known that in his career as chairman of the municipal board of DS in Vrakar, but also a member of the council, he addressed himself in writing. Be careful now, the chairman of the municipal board of DS Vračar Bogdan Tatic, addresses a member of the larger town municipality of Vracar Bogdan Tatic. So, on the side of the summit, that is, a couple of excellency examples of party employment, it says – the municipal board of DS Vračar held at the meeting then and then concluded that at the position of the co-ordinator of the Office for National Minorities of the City Municipality of Vračar a certain person is now not important who. So, the municipal board of DS Vračar reached a conclusion after an exhaustive debate and recommended that the president of Vračar City Municipality be appointed as the NN person coordinator of this office. So, the ultimate example of party employment, but what's most ridiculous, is that man addresses himself and benefits himself, or abuses his function. They were led by the Witch for decades back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15118	We're moving on with our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings will not be attended by MP Zarko Obradovic. We move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE BIOMEDICIN SUPPORT TO THE SUPPORT. I'm asking Minister Lonchar to enter the O.R. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Berislav Vekić, Vladimir Djukić, Vicko Ferenc and Meho Mahmutović, Nada Vasiljevic and Zlata Žizic from the Department of Biomedicine at the Ministry of Health and Nikola Pandrc and Marko Pavlovic from the Ministry of Health. You have received amendments submitted by MPs and the Committee on Health and Family to the bill of law. You've received reports from the board of directors. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15119	The President, the Honorable Minister, our intervention in Article 2 was to make it clear that in terms of patients' rights in this procedure, unless defined by this law, the provisions of the law governing the rights of patients are applied. We believe that it is good that the Government has adopted this amendment and has made it further clear and determined how citizens can exercise their rights through this law in all possible cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15120	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15121	In Article 3, which defines the concepts of this law, the term “serious, unwanted events” appears. In some of the consultations that we have had with people who deal with this area, they say that in our terminology, neither medical nor legal, this term "serious, unwanted events" does not exist and that it is probably the result of translation from another language in which some definitions of use are in place. We felt that the word “serious ” should be deleted and the definition of“ unwanted events ” remained. The government has not accepted this amendment with some reason that the word is needed to further distinguish between events that may occur, related to this process of biomedically assisted fertilisation. Through these consultations, people have drawn attention to us that these medical terms are not being used by us. We think it would be better if this and similar amendment, which also requires a word in a later member to delete the word "serious", the government accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15122	The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15123	Thank you. We wanted to distinguish between side effects that could be extremely minimal and negligible and those that are serious. That's the only reason to draw attention to the serious consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15124	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15125	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Associates of the Ministry of Health, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, here after a year's break, as far as I wasn't in the National Assembly, I'm back today with you and there's the case, again at the beginning of the health laws. I just want to tell you one segment, I haven't been here in a year, and I think a little atmosphere in the Assembly isn't exactly what it's supposed to be, and I think each of us should contribute to a better and better work of this National Assembly and Parliament's work. What I want to say is that we have two very important laws that improve legislative activity and practical legislation in the health sector. Two very important topics – the subject of the Transfusion Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15126	Ambassador, please just a little bit about the amendment, we've moved on to the amendment debate. You have a specific amendment to Article 3, item 1, point 29, it's serious and it's "expunged", in point 30, it's seriously "expect". I am aware that you have only now been involved in Parliament's work, but we are on the subject of amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15127	Okay, if you'll excuse me, you're certainly the chairman here, where you can interrupt what I wanted. Last Friday, I took an oath, and by some good practice from earlier mandates, I should have been authorized, I was disabled, and I want to say a few important things, these two bill proposals using the time of an authorised representative...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15128	Ambassador, I understand your desire to speak of what was the other day, but we need to talk about amendments, I am trying to keep this Parliament's work in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15129	Okay, here, I'll get back to you after the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15130	Yeah. Thank you. Of course. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15131	Thank you, President. I fully agree with the government's and the health ministry's view that the proposed amendment should be rejected. Namely, side effects or facts are shared, in medicine, according to the intensity of mild, medium and severe, due to the consequences of serious and not serious and frequency. Article 3 of the proposed law in paragraphs 29 and 30 clearly explains the serious adverse events in biomedical assisted fertilisation procedures. A side effect and event may also be redness, itching, burning, scarce intravaginal bleeding, for example in aspiration, which is a normal occurrence, but this does not fall into serious side effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15132	After the amendment again? Same thing?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15133	By the time I get my rhythm, at least around these amendments. When we talk about the proposal for a law on artificially assisted insemination and when we talk about Mr Đurisic's amendment, which he has submitted, there are some conditions that are very serious and which lead, practically, and to the sterility of women and something that is not mentioned in this bill, and what is often mentioned in the public, this public and someone from the top of the former governments mention, a large number of abortions and the subject of a large number of abortions and leading to women's sterility, I want this place, as a national MP, to draw attention, that we need to do much more work and pay attention to prevention. In Serbia, it is respected that abortion is possible to regulate the family and that abortion is something that is generally acceptable. As a doctor, I will always advocate that abortion remains the right of a woman to regulate her pregnancy, but I want to draw attention to the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, that we must participate more in the education of our citizens, so that abortion is not the only possibility of sexual protection from unwanted pregnancy. Just when we're talking about one percent of women who can't have a child, they can be complications, like the story and the amendment, one of the complications is once or twice, maybe a professional or unprofessional abortion and that a woman can't stay in another condition afterwards. This is a very important topic because, unfortunately, Serbia has a large number of abortions. I am a supporter and advocate of women's right to abortion, but what I notice as a doctor, our young generations, young people don't know much how to protect themselves from pregnancy and without any protection they get into sexual intercourse and abortion at the end, as the only possible measure of stopping that pregnancy. It is a very bad thing, and it is precisely a responsibility for all of us to do much more attention, in this sexual education of young people, that prevention is done not only by abortion, but by using different means, to explain to young people how to get there. From this place messages to people who have tried and in some European countries to ban abortion, and to some individuals who have let some as announcements that they intend to, perhaps, and in Serbia to stop abortion, abortion is something that is the right of a woman, who has the right to plan her family and end pregnancy, but is not the measure of prevention in the way it is used in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15134	Thank you. You've wasted your time on this amendment. You've already called the Minister once, he can't call twice. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15135	Article 3 is, in order to even know what we're talking about, a member in which expressions are used in this law, that is, the meaning of those terms. We generally think that such members are completely unnecessary and burden the text of the law, but that's not the point right now. The theme is what is in this Article 3, item 1, point 35 explained what is the BMPO Center. It says this is a health institution or private practice that performs BMPO activities, except for the activity of a bank of reproductive cells, tissues and embryos. We in the SRS think we should intervene here, we intervened with the Amendment, so that this part, apart from the activity of the bank of reproductive tissue cells and embryos, was erased from this article, that is, this point of Article 3, and we explained quite in detail why we think it should be deleted. The activity of the bank of reproductive cells should be approved, in our opinion, by all centres which, in terms of equipment, and in human terms, are equipped for this kind of work. In principle, we said that this law is very important and that we also had in principle a discussion of our objections and we said that the law could be good if we accepted some of our suggestions and remarks that we made through the amendments. This is very practical, very specific, and if one day this law is applied, of course, I especially stress, because most of the last years have been passed many laws that have actually been inadmissible, because the law is first passed, and only then are they trying to create conditions for its application. So, if this law ever starts to apply, then we'll face serious problems. Whatever it is, concentrate on only one particular place, creates a monopoly, even if it is this activity that is foreseen by the biomedically assisted fertilisation law, on one side. On the other hand, why should we concentrate it on one center and cost people to come from all over Serbia to just this one centre that, perhaps you, or someone else, would equip, and with very modern equipment and concentrate all experts there, etc.? Whenever it comes to monopoly, whatever it is, you know that it leads to, possibly, malfeasance, abuse, etc. If we want to develop Serbia as a whole, and you declare that, then why shouldn't many medical centres in Serbia be equipped to be able to do this job? This amendment, which we have submitted, we still think you should accept, not to see it as some kind of political address, because this is really something very practical and in all areas of society, it turns out that it's not good when something concentrates in just one place. Ministers, think again and let's break this monopoly, accept this amendment. After all, there are a large number of banks around the world for reproductive cells and embryos, and therefore there is no reason for it to be in one place in Serbia. Your argument, what you wrote, written by someone in the service for which you do not accept the amendment, nothing is essentially written. There, you wrote the order for it – we do not accept it because we think it should do this, and we have told you very specifically why we think you should accept this, and once again I urge you to think about it and accept this amendment to improve the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15136	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15137	Your Honor, I agree with my colleague, Radet, on this amendment. I come from Nis and I can tell you that Nisils are allergic to any kind of centralization, and whenever I hear something's trying to build in one place... Okay, there are in Nis, but there are no other places. I'm saying that the bill was made by the profession and there are very good parts in this text, but as far as the complaint of her colleague, which she made, it would be a lot easier if even in smaller centres they could practically donate... (Goldibor Lonchar: I do. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15138	Ambassador, you discuss it. I'm asking the Minister to discuss it in the microphone, not with you in private.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15139	So the point is that Serbia's citizens, especially couples who can't have children, are making it easier for them to come to these centres and not have to go to other environments. There are cases where some couples want to have some discretion and they may well be justified, but 90% of people aren't ashamed of it and there's no reason for people to be ashamed of it, ask for help, and they need to be enabled, as a colleague said they would at one of the nearest centers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15140	The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15141	Please, let me get this straight. Everything you've said is absolutely not true. Where did you read that the center couldn't be opened? You can open it when you meet the conditions in any village, anywhere. The only reason we want to have a minimum of what's necessary to make it a better performance and a higher percentage of success when it's done. Did we now regulate here for the first time that both private and state-owned, that they are in the same rank that they can open wherever they meet these conditions? Don't let us mislead people wherever they can, the only reason they'd be more successful. Nor is there any difference in which place there will be, at which center, whether it will be state, whether it will be private, anyone who meets the requirements. The only thing we care about, which is to make it more successful, and this is a guarantee that success will be greater. I'll just come back, I didn't get to have an abortion. The only thing the state wants, the state just wants to know how many abortions there have been, so it can make a strategy and work on it. That's why he's bringing privates into the system so they can see how much they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15142	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15143	Minister, you're wrong. I'm a good reader. It writes – The Centre for Biomedical Aided Insemination is a health institution or a private practice that performs the BMPO's activities and then gets stuck, and then we want to delete, and you wrote – except for the activity of the bank of reproductive cells, tissues and embryos. So, that's the only thing you've predicted to do in one place. We wrote the amendment very precisely and specifically and talked about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15144	Members Goran Ćirić and Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15145	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an extremely important law, and these are extremely important amendments to discuss with the man who hung out with Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's murderers. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15146	I give you a warning from the Messenger. You can't insult people. You're surprised? (Radoslav Milojic: Why did you insult him? You can't insult anyone, you can't insult anyone. (Radoslav Milojičić: These are not my pictures.) ) Therefore, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia will not become a circus. I promise you that. This is where the power of arguments is brought out. We're talking about a very important law. Many families expect this law to be passed. We're trying to improve it, and what you're saying... Minister, we end up with this kind of communication by MPs who don't know anything about amendments. (Radoslav Milojic: What is the warning? I didn't paint this. Ambassador, you have a press conference, you have DS, probably rooms. You keep conferences wherever you want and talk about something that's not a topic here, and I don't allow insults. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Sreto Peric. The word is Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the topic or problem of society that we are talking about today is of paramount importance, although in the principle debate Mr. Krasic said – the change in the name of the law before which this problem was regulated and this one is now losing its significance, i.e. the strength of the problem that we need to pay attention to. So you said that the law had been misrepresented in a certain way and put an accent only on the conduct of the procedure. I don't think there's anything more important than the process itself in this problem and it's not more important. Although we fully agree that procedures should be prescribed that we must respect. We intervened in Article 13, which speaks of the activity of BMPO, and the very work that you have defined, as defined, not to repeat, we do not have any special interventions, but at the end of the sentence of Article 1, it is said – as well as imports, or exports of reproductive cells, we suggest that it be deleted. What do we suggest we delete it for? Because it's regulated by the Foreign Trade Act. Mr. Minister, you're not a lawyer, so maybe this isn't even clear to you. It would be as if in the Housing Act, someone suggested that it could be considered and intervened on both BMPO and on BMPO. For that reason, we suggested that it be deleted. It is simple and legal rules for Serbia to enter one purity and to know what the rules say that those they refer to would be easier to apply and implement. We also agree to this statement of yours where it was said that your wish was as successful as possible. It's not just your wish. It is the wish of all those who have problems, including those who do not have them directly, but are related to the people who have one problem that you see growing from day to day, and you probably had to go along with Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, a minister who has a special role to play in developing the problem of birth in Serbia and that concrete solutions, to come out here with certain problems, to tell us where these cases occur more often, what is the problem, how people would have to help themselves not to do so if it were in the influence of some of our daily behaviours or something that science in a preventive sense can respond and to quality solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15148	Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15149	Thank you. I am in the government's position not to accept this amendment. Why? The aim of this good bill is to increase the number of BMPO procedures, but also to increase the number of successful, above all, procedures. What is proposed in this amendment is that imports and exports are actually banned. Then what about those couples who accidentally started the BMPO procedure in one of the other countries? So we deny them the right to end this process. So I think the government's position is correct and we can't accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15150	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15151	I'll be very brief. When we talk about imports and exports, you have examples where our patients have to, for example, not a subject of artificial insemination but it is an extension of life, certainly, when they have to go to the AKH clinic and do a heart, lung or kidney transplant. Then they get someone else's organ. So, we can't be so closed and conservative, not to say with thoughts in the Middle Ages, and we always have some conspiracy theory, but to see what's good for our citizens. Every good move we have to say hello and open up. So everything that is directed towards extending the lives of our citizens, everything that is directed towards enabling a better and healthier life for our citizen, we should talk here and explain to the citizens what we are essentially doing. I think I made a contribution through this transplant that it shouldn't be looked so closely, that import or export.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15152	The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15153	Article 15 has the title – The issue of a licence for the work of biomedically assisted fertilisation. The law stipulates that the Biomedicine Administration gives permission to carry out this activity to centres, but also to the bank. The Bank is one, at the level of the Republic of Serbia, and what is the essence of our amendment, is that this permit for work, or possible withdrawal, is issued by the minister. We do not agree with the reasoning in the rejection of this amendment, which says that the principle of efficiency and economicity of the process is what is better, i.e. it gives the Biomedicine Authority jurisdiction and the issue of a bank permit, since the bank is one single institution, provided for by this law, at the level of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that because of the importance, that permission, and to follow her work, she should be in charge of the minister, not the administration. I'm saying, we understand why the Biomedicine Administration is working for the centres, since it's multiple centres, private, state-owned, whatever, whichever, which will work, but the bank is one and we think that that's why the law should provide for a permit for its work, or for possible confiscation, to be given by the minister. I therefore disagree that the principle of economic efficiency and economics is justified in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15154	The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15155	There's only one thing we've been doing here, and that's that people who work at the Biomedicine Administration know a lot better than I do about all that, and that's the only reason they've been given it. When they're already doing the inspection, when they're doing everything else, then they have that responsibility for the license. It's nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15156	The word has been made by the People's MP, Momir Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15157	I'll agree to reject this proposal. It is precisely the formation of the supervision of the entire institution that has contributed to the quality of this law. And what the minister says is, it is certain that people who are highly professional and who are constantly in contact with and who are constantly monitoring matter, will make easier, faster and better decisions, in the interest of better functioning this institute, will be assisted by fertilisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15158	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15159	I'll use two minutes on the basis of the amendment, and the rest on the basis of being a representative of the parliamentary group on this agenda point. This whole discussion of ours and our third amendment concerns this relationship between the center and the bank. There are no fundamental differences, except that one of the centres adds the status that he is a bank and he is in some way becoming some reference institution. We think it's a bad solution. In the context of our first amendment we have explained, we have even stated in which countries there is not simply this vision that you are giving. As for Article 15, the amendment concerns the bank's work permit. We, as you can see, have submitted the amendment only because we have followed the previous two amendments, where basically the relationship between the centre and the bank. But I have to draw attention to you that there is absolutely no one, remember, no reason for a kind of monopolization which would be one centre and one single bank in Serbia. There's absolutely no reason. No matter the type of health care facility, whether it's from the network, so-called. a state health institution, whether a private health institution, whether private practice, is allowed to deal with this activity, provided that they meet the human and equipment requirements. We here have a double certification system – a certificate for the institution, state, private and private practice if it meets minimum technical conditions, sanitary, etc., etc. And we have the other side, it's a certificate for the faces that will work. It's a good thing you have a stretching notion of personnel, personnel in employment and personnel coming from the side of a contract and their engagement, which is a condition for the existence of both the center and the bank. It's a bad solution. You won't be able to concentrate quality personnel in just one place. The weather's changed. 30 years ago it was the only form, not today. There is even property competition in health care, and it should be respected. That's why we insisted that demonopolization be carried out, that the bank's affairs can be done by all the centres that meet the requirements. We have not interfered with these conditions, these are really professional arguments to be used, both in terms of equipment and in terms of health or professional ability of healthcare professionals and staff to work. We explained in that first amendment, if that was how you imagined it, then some women patients would have to be away from home for 15 days because the bank is somewhere else. You run your head all you want, but what you're proposing doesn't exist in most of the reference institutions in the European Union that you're calling for. What, Americans are stupid? Australians are stupid? They don't know. And they've developed these systems. A team before you have two records, you have two registers when it comes to this activity. You have the first register to be conducted as unique, right, the tissue cell register from Article 24. The law on cell and tissue transplants and you have a state registry under this law. Did you notice that you have two registers for these things? This transplant bill is higher than this. You didn't pay attention? You'll have two registers. It's all recorded in the registers, so from what's recorded in the registers, and to see which team is successful and which team is not successful. This is about an unwarranted case of monopolization in terms of booking bank affairs for a single centre. What center? Which will meet the conditions. What conditions? He'll be prescribed by the minister. The purpose should be to decentralisation these jobs. Because then it makes sense if all properties are equal and all forms of property are equal. I don't have time to deal with the Constitutional Court anymore, but everything I've written, the Constitutional Court accepts. Two or three years late, though. What's my figure on writing to you the Constitutional Court against a solution like this? Yeah, in three years, they say I'm right. It's a cricket. I tell you in advance that this solution is not good and I tell you in advance – you forgot, you have college standards here with at least two other laws. Then the question will really be asked which law is being applied. If you think this Lex is a specialty, you know there are two more who are also Lex specialists in this area. A tissue transplant cell, and this is a transplant at the very end of the case, to start with the Law of Health Protection. That's why our three amendments are one unity. It is not only one bank that needs to be made special, but all centres that meet the human and in the spatial and equipment conditions should also get permission to deal with the business of the bank of reproductive tissue and embryo cells.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15160	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15161	Just one more time, so there's no confusion, the bank you're talking about is just for donated cells. To have strict protocols, strict regulations, how it can be done to avoid any abuse. Only for donated cells. Otherwise, every clinic, every hospital that opens up, has its own bank where they're cells from those in process. So they're not going anywhere. They all end up in the facility they came to, who got the license. One bank only for donated cells under strict controlled conditions and regulations. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15162	Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will be working after 18 hours today, Article 27, and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15163	Thank you. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, I would above all disagree with the proposal that the bank of reproductive cells is the same as the center for biomedically assisted fertilisation, just adding some, let me say, attributes. I say this because this law is primarily done in accordance with the principles of the World Health Organization and with the experiences of most developed countries in the world. I'm saying this because, first of all, the experiences of developed countries are such that even on the territory of one country, there is enough to be a bank of reproductive cells. Also, I would not agree with the finding that these two, I would say, entities are identical to their attributes for reasons that, for the existence of, for the organization, for the formation of one bank of reproductive cells, there must be clearly defined conditions for its opening. That's the fundamental difference. The bank of reproductive cells is one, let me say, a serious organization dealing with a very serious activity. I'm just asking the minister and his team to define, in the course of the formation of sublegal acts, the very strict criteria for establishing the activity that is related to the bank of reproductive cells. And by the way, I'm looking at these particular segments, so these members of the law that define this area, so that I'm just dividing into centres for biomedical assisted fertilization, on the one hand, and on banks of reproductive cells, the goal of the ministry and the state is that, first of all, it's done a lot more to the quality, or to the success of extraterrestrial insemination, which is the essential thing. It is not an essential thing to increase the number of women, but to increase, only to increase the number of women, but also to increase the efficiency, or number of successful extra-body fertilisations. On the other hand, once, I would say, a detailed and careful definition of the formation of banks of reproductive cells, we will get one reference national centre representing a bank of reproductive cells that will be able to carry out all the burdens that BMPO centres in the territory of the entire Republic will carry with them, but in a completely different organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15164	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15165	I just wanted to make one thing clear. Please list me countries, EU member states, where is this solution alone? Explain to me why this solution did not come to life in America. For a living head, they don't want this solution to come to life. You're saying the bank will differ from the center because it'll store donated embryos, donated cells. Explain to me, please, so don't the centers do the same? And you can control everything. Let's go back to the principle debate where you gave one great truth. And so far, the state has participated in these procedures and funded. You said here that the biggest problem is that, you gave money, there were these processes, and you don't know how many children were born. Do you brag or complain? You're the government, you're supposed to rule. You need through the inspection organs and otherwise. Don't be complaining to us about why you didn't finish some work. All the instruments are in your hands. Also on this bank-center relationship, you have your inspectors in this Biomedicine Authority, with great powers. How come you don't have any inspectors? Biomedicine management, so you have special inspectors controlling. Well, wait then, turn your head, it says here inspection. Then you don't know what you wrote. Inspectorate, you have an inspection order. Doesn't matter if the ministry, whether the administration, what's wrong with you, what are you guys up to? You have the authority here to do what you can in inspection control, people. Why don't you use those powers? Then you complain to us – you know we paid, and we don't know how many babies were born. Who are you informing? Well, all the levers of power are in your hands. Why didn't you make a commitment? You're gonna do these jobs through the bank? Oh, you don't want to finish those jobs. You're not going to finish your jobs, but you're continuing to do something that's been started in Fruszko Gora a long time ago. Serbia is a very small country to be a big secret. Everything is known, and who does, what does, who is interested, and to whom is only this solution that there is one bank in one center. We can smile to the will, but you'll see if this is your solution, in a few years you'll have a dance. You'll have a dance, why? Because there will be a conflict of interest for the people who do this job and you know it well. But you insist, you must push through this solution. As you wish, ours is to distract you, you have a majority, you can declare that there is only half a bank in all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15166	On Articles 16, 20, 32, 56, 57, the title of Chapter IX, to the title above Articles 58 and 58, and to Article 67, the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Muamer Bačevac. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 16th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15167	As Article 15 deals with the issue of a permit, Article 16 deals with the withdrawal of a licence. As we suggested in Article 15 that the bank's work permit should be given by the minister, we have here suggested that the permit can and should be denied by the minister. I disagree with the minister's view of biomedicine management where experts sit, so they're better enough to assess and do it, or I don't think they're high enough and professional. I just think it's because of the importance of the bank, and you said yourself what the bank's role is and in which it differs from the role of the centre under this law, and that is why I think it takes that one higher degree of involvement of the state and the participation of the minister. So it is not disputed that both the Office for Biomedicine on a daily basis or in accordance with the law here, is checking national quality standards whether they are met when they are passed by the minister, according to the law. With this amendment, we predicted that the minister would propose it to the government just to give one additional seriousness to this whole thing. That's why we think and I repeat again, we disagree with the government's view that it should be the same level for both the centres and the bank precisely because, as you said in the bank, the donor biomaterial is being kept. What happens if he cancels out, say, a bank license, what happens to those frozen cells? Where are they going? Who takes them, in which procedure, are they threatened precisely by some kind of work failure? Given the sensitivity of the topic and perhaps the bank's multi-annual work due to someone's negligence or I don't know what to do with it, the minister's participation is needed, because it also implies greater responsibility in the work of the bank itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15168	The word is Dragana Barisic, then Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15169	Thank you. When it comes to this law, we all really agreed in the principle debate that it was without any politicalisation because it was a very important law and that the profession was first involved. I think we've been able to clarify all this in detail and that through these members, in the new bill of law, it's all an explanation. When it comes to this article, I would disagree with the previous speaker, because we have been trying here to be unique rules for everyone and to control the conduct of the biomedicine service because there are the most professional staff, and that certainly the minister will make a final decision based on the complaints. I believe, however, that through this law, this member, we have also taken care of the efficiency and economy of the process, which is very important. The point is that this amendment is not in line, that we should not accept it, because the existing proposal has made it all clear and that all rules are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15170	The word is Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15171	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, not to be left unspecified, if we have carefully read the law, it is clearly defined which international standards apply when it comes to the bank and when it comes to inspection supervision. There's not gonna be just inspection surveillance here. If we implement standards that are required to be implemented, there is also a principle of self-control within the already existing institution and there is a system to prevent unwanted events, i.e. based on monitoring of parameters and determining critical control points, as I said in the previous debate. So, for every donated cell that's frozen, there's a procedure, a clear procedure on which it's kept and what happens to that material if there's a mistake. So everything here is clearly defined, clearly precise and requires a multidisciplinary approach. I believe that inspectors who are going to supervise will have the competence and authority to do so well, and employees working in these institutions will also be well trained to carry out a system of self-control conducted literally on a daily basis. Imagine the minister going into control and the minister checking procedures, respect for standards and everything else. That's just impossible. So, this amendment should absolutely be rejected, because the legal solution is clearly defined, we just need to read the law well and know what the law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15172	Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. None of the groups are here. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesovic, Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjusevic, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic. The word is Maria Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15173	Thank you, esteemed chairman. The respected ministers with their associates, respected colleagues, member 18 deals with the quality system and its determination. Otherwise, we wanted to complete a good idea of the promoter so that this member would simply be more direct and more explained, so that later in application we would not have problems on the ground, or in application in practice. We propose that the quality system be defined in relation to our national standards, because besides this law is of the highest national interest, of interest to our families and to all women who are not in the community, who want to be realized as mothers. So we are not interested in any EU directive, this is something that we can absolutely solve ourselves. We have suggested, therefore, that inspectors can leave all units with the possibility of removing any discrepancies at a certain time. The amendment has not been accepted, with an explanation that there will be well-educated inspectors who themselves will be able to assess when they withdraw their license and when not. All right. Our idea was to actually participate in system control together and help those units in which biomedically assisted fertilisation will be as much as possible. In this case everything is left to one man, a well-educated inspector. It's okay, it's legitimate, but I have to point out that in this case, it's the right opportunity to end party employment and therefore decide similarity, but only in the first order of quality. This is a real opportunity to start treating our system. Foreign employment has been in all regimes, and in this it has been brought to perfection, but here is finally an area where there really is no room for it, but strictly professionalism in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15174	The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15175	I would only ask once again for respect for the citizens of Serbia who are interested in this, if we can stick to what is crucial to them and what they look forward to. For that reason, I'm going to try not to answer those things you're talking about, and I think there's going to be a chance to talk about it, so I'm going back to what you mentioned. Here this law is a profession and only the profession has consulted and brought forward, and you explain why you abuse it. The second thing, is that you're suggesting that some deadline should be corrected, and what about what happens in that time frame where something is given to fix, so until it's fixed in that process that we have, what are we going to do? Please, it's serious stuff. So, something can either work by principle and by law, or it can't work. You can't let someone go, you've established an irregularity, so let him do it, and he'll fix it over time. What are we going to do about these couples right now? Think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15176	The word is Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15177	Thank you. Honorable presidents, respected ministers with associates, dear colleagues, just so there is nothing left unspeakable about standards, the state of Serbia is implementing its standards exclusively. This is not about any European directive. It says, but read nice. The European Directive covers international ISO standards relating to quality management 9001, which is a basic standard. As far as the specific situation is concerned, it is exclusively a Serbian standard called the SRPS ISO 15224 of 2016, which applies to health services and is a standard of 13875, also of the SRPS ISO and is made by accredited bodies and certified institutions. You won't find that in an explanation, but I, who's been dealing with standards for almost a dozen years, absolutely know all the procedures and procedures that are being taken. There is no possibility of delay and action at the moment something happens. The standard exists for you to avoid the unwanted event, not to reach it. When it comes to it, it's already the fall of that system and then it's a big problem. That is why all these concrete measures are being taken to avoid this. Therefore, please, for the sake of our citizens who are eager to end all this and to pass these two good laws, please, study some of these two standards, and then it will become more clear to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15178	Maria Janjusevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15179	Thank you. So, exactly what I've pointed out, party employment can ruin our quality. If the person is engaged exclusively by his profession and by his knowledge and skills, then we will have no problem with any slips in quality. I think it's absolutely in the interest of the citizens. As for what the colleague said, we have here seven listed directives from the EU, and as you said yourself, the rest is not listed. I would very much like to see the proposals, the Serbian Government, write that this is a national interest and that it has been done according to Serbian standards, not that we are constantly calling on the EU and we will all be satisfied. I really don't see anything wrong with what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15180	Thank you. Would you like to discuss the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15181	Dear President, as I told you, the European Directive covers a series of standards that regulate some procedures. Serbia simply accepts standards and adapts them to its own conditions. They're in sync. Imagine we do everything we want. All these standards that exist in the EU, which are within the framework of the European Directive, are translated and simply meant for the state of Serbia with everything that stands. The law makes it clear to you that a standard relating to quality management will be implemented and that is enough. Just a little bit of guidance on what that means, and you'll get it all figured out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15182	The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs, Bojic, Verica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15183	Here is another amendment that should really be accepted and I will try to convince the minister and the minister's associates, and above all, the public of Serbia to see how pointless this member is if you do not accept our amendment. It is a member talking about healthcare professionals and health associates who participate in the work of biomedically assisted fertilisation. You have stated here that they are a doctor of medicine, an expert in embryology, a doctor of medicine, a specialist in urology, a medical technician, a laboratory technician. Of course, this is a purely professional thing and this amendment has been done by the SRS Health Alliance, led by Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, and they have specified this member. They said that BMPO should participate in the work of BMPO doctor – a gynecology specialist, as you said, but with a narrow degree in fertility and sterility with experience of 100 cycles of VTO or a specialist in gynecology with experience of 1,000 cycles of VTO; an expert in embryology, as you also said, but we say – which has a degree in biological sciences with an object in animal cell biology or medical, or health science, and that is all the profiles of an animal cell biology class, or embryologist; doctor – a specialist in urology, that is what you said, we said, we don't need a closer label, and we said that it should be a nurse. You said "medical technician" or "laborant." We think, therefore, that these knowledge that we have predicted and the experiences of these experts are necessary so that they can participate in this very important business and for the families to which our entire society is concerned. Why didn't you accept this I don't understand because you wrote, Minister, or someone who wrote to you, I assume that you read this, that the amendment is not accepted because the matter of the proposed amendment is the subject of sublegal acts that will be brought forward, etc. So you basically agree with this, the only problem is that you don't want it to be in the law, you want it to be in the sublegal act. Isn't it more serious, isn't it longer if it's stipulated by law? You know, these experts, I don't suppose we're going to choose from one minister to another, from one party to another party in power. I guess these people are really from the profession, and it needs to be legally defined what are the conditions that they have to meet. There are specific conditions and you agree on this argument. Imagine now, here, Serbia's public first of all to hear, you're passing this law, the assembly majority will adopt it today or tomorrow, it doesn't matter, the law will come into effect on the eighth day of the publication in "The Official Messenger", so, right after the first holidays, it's not disputed either. But in law, you wrote that you would bring this sublegal act within 18 months. What are we gonna do between? Eighteen months, that's not small. So you're passing a law whose 19th will not be applicable. You won't be able to provide these experts because they'll have to wait 18 months for you to bring in sublegals. Why don't you once the government do a smart job, practical, to tell the services - well, we'll have a law like this, do sublegal acts, parallel to doing sublegal acts and billing? When you come here, you say -- here's the bill, the MPs argue, adopt, we'll talk about it, if you don't understand something, here's what's in the sublegal act. We can't trust any minister or government to do what they tell us to do, which they don't commit by law, whoever it is. Nothing personal, just, you know, what experience we've had before and now. Simply, if you honestly want this law not to be a political pamphlet, but to be something that will be able to be applied immediately after the first day of the holiday, because as you all say – so that the citizens of Serbia can hear and understand you, many families can't wait for this law. We agree, we can't wait for many families, we can't wait for the whole of Serbia to start doing this. But here I am now warning the public - dear peoples, those of the Ministry of Health deceive you, the congregation's majority of advances deceive you, this law will not be able to apply in 18 months, until the ministry adopts a sublegal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15184	Minister Lonchar has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15185	We absolutely don't deceive anyone. Sublaws are mostly over, they couldn't go before the law, that's clear to everyone. Since December 15th, the law has been there, it's been in public debate, we wanted to hear all the opinions. The second thing, those 18 months is a real time to do whatever it takes not to make, but I said, one step forward and then three steps back at some speed. What we're doing is we want it to stay and it's going to be with a serious foundation. What you've been saying here, all you have to do is make up your mind. First you said you didn't want monopolies, you didn't want anything. And where in Serbia are you going to find so many experts with so much experience that they have over, I don't know, 100 procedures, 1,000 procedures and all that? At the same time, we are inequitable and favour those who have worked so far and do not give anyone else a chance to work. You were just fighting it. So I think this is an absolute opportunity for everyone, especially those young people who want to deal with this, who want to invest in this and get results. That's the only point of this. I repeat, this is a law of profession that has nothing to do with anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15186	National MPs Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic submitted the amendment together. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15187	The amendment is similar to the amendment submitted by the MPs of the SRS, and we also suggest that the law prescribes criteria for how much experience those medical workers, health workers, who will be engaged in out-of-body insemination tomorrow. It's a practice we have. Every time we prescribe some positions by law, we legally prescribe how much experience it takes to have this person who will deal with it, so when we look for an economist somewhere, we don't say that he should be a graduate economist with so much and so much experience, a graduate lawyer can be in that position and that position if he has so much experience. It's really unusual not to put it in the law. I don't remember having a law on which we simply state the profession someone needs to have to deal with, and not experience, and it's really very strange why you want to do it in a sublegal act that won't be passed for another 18 months, etc. We have not now heard an explanation why you do not want to put the experience that someone needs to have in order to deal with the law, unless, now I hope to misread what you just said, because as I understand it now, you are telling us that it will be people and without any experience in self-insemination of out-of-body insemination. What you said sounded that way and I'm asking you to say exactly what you meant and to explain to us once again why, unlike all the other laws, you don't want to put the necessary experience, because it is a custom when laws are passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15188	The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15189	The maximum deadline is 18 months, which doesn't mean, and we just wanted to be realistic, not to come back here and say we didn't do something, which doesn't mean we're not gonna do it in six, eight months, which we're gonna try. I can't promise at this point, but just one thing you're forgetting, you have to have a narrow specialty from that area. So someone can't finish college today and go do it. It's a condition of all conditions, narrow specialization. What we would encounter is a problem, for those who want to deal with it, who want to invest in it, which is what we aim to do as much as possible, to be as competitive as possible, and then to get past the one who has the best result. So it's in our interest and it turns out, when you have so much competition, they go the best when they're fighting each other. At this point, what you said to find with 100, with 1,000 procedures, we've really seen, we don't have that kind of expertise in Serbia with that kind of experience. I repeat, this law is a living organism that must be complemented by sublegal acts. This isn't nailed. This law can't be nailed and you say now we've passed this law and that's going to change a lot in the next five or ten years. It's just the basics of it by sublegals. Maybe this will take a year to bring in another expert from another area. They'll prove to the waist that we have to include someone else, and then what would we do, change the law again? Change the law again? I don't think you understand, but here's what I was trying to say. So the basics are in law, everything goes into sublaw. A living organism that needs to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15190	The word is Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15191	I'll be very brief. Dear President, Your Honor, I must confess that I have not participated in the writing of these amendments, but I support these amendments brought forth by my colleagues. I think it's important when it comes to this very sophisticated technique, a very sensitive intervention that we have gynecologists with experience. Certainly, you are right when you say where in Serbia you will find someone who has 100 successful, practical, out-of-body fertilisation procedures, but some percentage of the success rate, some percentage of the work of these gynecologists must be present because as we go to the EU, we will easily adopt their criteria and as well as surgical work where they clearly say that the surgeon must during a calendar year have a certain number of operations. If he does not have an independent number of operations he will not be able to perform the surgery next year, he will have to assist the chief, the primarius, etc. So it's all about the quality of providing health care, and it's nothing wrong with a sublegal act to be precise, because it is important to improve the performance of extra-body fertilisation, because it's not like it's going to end, and it's not just that the specialization guarantee that someone knows that they're doing this subspecialistic method. It's something that has to show time and show practice whether he's a successful gynecologist, whether he's a successful surgeon. So this is a good, well-intentioned proposal and I agree with your explanation, but certainly also with colleagues who have defended these two amendments that through the sublegal act not 50, not 100, but certainly some dozen successful interventions not to be. So it wouldn't be like that little, little joke to get into parliament when the patient asks us, so some of our old primaries at least told me how to break the fear of a patient when they ask – Doctor, do you know you're doing this operation? Don't worry, you're not my first, you're my second. So it's not like there's something else but more than 20, 30 successful interventions done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15192	The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking the Minister to state whether he accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15193	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15194	The minister has accepted the amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15195	We have added positions in article 19 that predict that health workers and associates working on biomedical aided insemination activities have the right to increased wages in accordance with the coefficients set by the minister responsible for health affairs. The government rejected the amendment and said it was the subject of the Law governing the public sector pay system. In principle, we agree with that. The idea was to draw attention through this debate to the need for healthcare professionals and associates who participate in this and now and in accordance with the new law to participate, to pay particular attention to making their profits with special coefficients additional rewards where there is a need because this process requires, to say, certain time intervals when something is done and when accessing cells. After a while, it happens that those who work with this material have to do it out of standard working hours because of the need for medical, biological. As there are in intervention cardiology or in other branches of medicine special coefficients, we believe that in this case the minister should set specific coefficients. We agree that this is not the place in this law, but we wanted to take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that, as the minister said, we do not now have many experts who can do this and to try to stop this one negative trend that we have in the last few years, that more than 1,000 people, or doctors, every year, need documentation to continue working outside Serbia's borders, that an active policy of the ministry is needed, and that if we want this law to live, that we need to think about the results, and also about the profits of those who are going to work under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15196	The word is Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15197	It is precisely in the design of a catalogue on jobs and a catalogue on salaries where it is recognized and not only that, but everyone involved in this process, so not doctors, are recognized, included in the catalogue and in the wages. So there are paying groups and paying classes and, of course, they will have a much greater coefficient than others because of the specificity of work and engagement and all that is of interest to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15198	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15199	Same thing for a while, according to the amendment. It's not that it's a doctor's issue. Health workers, but certainly both the Ministry and the Republic Government should pay attention to increasing the standard of living of nurses and doctors. As you said, classification should be made, because in many European countries, and in the United States, there is a classification of specialists who receive. Not all receive the same salaries and this one legacy of the former socialist communist understanding of labour should finally cease in Serbia and evaluate the results of the work, to value the diploma. Cardio-surgeons and neurosurgeons, I can tell you, are the most paid doctors in America, have a range of pay maltenes as presidents of the United States, and then go further ophthalmologists, othoringologists, anesthesiologists with 100, 120 thousand dollars a year, then go pediatricians. There's a classification of that work and that stress that you're putting into the O.R. and that you're doing, so I support and, in particular, this is a very serious topic and the material that these gynecologists are doing, doctors in out-of-body fertilization, especially that in Serbia, we're disappearing, and we're making sure that nearly 400,000 of our citizens have a problem with sterileness and that it's very important that we understand and that we tell the citizens that it's not a shame if after a year they can't have a child, that they report to these very people who are going to help them have a happy marriage and that they have their offspring and that they continue through their offspring life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15200	Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15201	Thank you, Chairman. Article 20 deals with a person appointed by the Director of the Centre for Biomedical Supported Insemination to deal with matters concerning this activity. We have proposed to delete point 10 in the description of his ingenuities to deal with relations with legal and physical persons. So it's the director who's in charge of relations with third parties and all the jobs in that center, and this person can only advise and never replace him. In addition, we wrote that relations with natural persons are processed in detail in other members of this law, including the precise indication of the obligations of each individual healthcare worker or associate, but it is not mentioned anywhere, I apologize if I am wrong, and the person in charge of the work that we are discussing. In the explanation of the amendment, it was rejected, and it explains that its activities do not apply to the negotiation of third party transactions. You will admit that this can also not be concluded by the wording "in charge of relations with legal and physical persons". So maybe it doesn't, but this doesn't rule out, so we already see the problem of applying in practice. Unless the director and the person in charge of these matters agree, it will not be possible to determine exactly who has the authority to make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15202	The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15203	In Article 21, we felt that they should be found, meaning in the law, not in the sublegal act, that the tests described in paragraph 1 must include a genetic examination aimed at identifying genetic properties or diagnosing diseases, or obtaining genetic information on the presence of a particular disease, as well as testing the presence of disease addiction. We think it's very important that one of these tests is done to ensure that the quality and safety of the biomedical assisted fertilisation process is ensured. We think that what it says in terms of not accepting this amendment is that this whole matter will be regulated by a sublegal act, to say, is not enough for us, and we think that this part, where it is not listed taxively which are these types of testing, but it is talking about the need for genetic testing, as well as testing for the presence of disease addiction, gives one way, one direction in which this area should be defined by sublegal documents, so that we think that this should be part of the law, and that it should be further worked out and accurately specify what tests, that it is complemented eventually, is part of sublegal documents, but that one of these definitions should also be in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15204	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15205	The only reason is that we can't assume what the WHO predicts or what's going to happen in the world, whether it's ZIKA, whether it's Ebola or something else that's going to have to be tested. That's why it didn't go to law, because it would have to change all the time. That's the only reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15206	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15207	Thank you. I think this solution of ours limits all these cases that you said could happen in the future, but it gives some guidance. So to indicate correctly, these genetic research must also be done and research on disease-related addictions. We think it leaves this whole space wide for what you've been saying, special cases, how science moves around the world, that it's possible, but it's important to stress in the law and give some minimum limits to the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15208	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the title above Articles 24 and 24. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Miroslava Stankovic – Đuričić submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15209	We requested an amendment to delete Article 24 and you, of course, rejected it heroically. We're not angry that you don't get us wrong. We who are not in power to amend you propose something, you accept it and then it becomes your obligation and then it turns out – you who are not in power, you write what our obligations are and I fully understand you. I'm just surprised to hear the government accepts some amendments. However, what is the problem with this member? I read what is written – an annual report on reported serious adverse events and serious side effects The Management shall submit to the European Commission for Health and Food Safety until July 30th of the current year for the previous year. We asked to erase it. You said it couldn't be deleted and you said again, I read, that obligation applies to all other EU members, as well as to countries that have joined EU accession negotiations. So you say the EU said so, it has to be so, we don't care what you asked for with the amendment. I had two options. One option is to be an amendment to "wipe" and the other version was next, but I didn't write it so you wouldn't get the very first part wrong, I'm imposing something on you that you wouldn't want to do. For example, the amendment could also have been this way: "The annual report on deaths and the consequences of NATO's natalisation bombing in the Republic of Serbia is being delivered to the European Commission by July 30th with the condition for the previous year." If I had written such an amendment, you would have convinced me that I hadn't read the bill. We need to keep them informed. Why? We are not members of the EU. What obligation do we have for them? The directives are not European directives, they are EU directives. Europe is much more than 28, and in which day it will be not 28, but it will be much less. Why are you holding us back? Why are you taking us down to 28 and less than 28, if God does? Who are they to inform them? Why do we keep them informed? Why don't you keep them informed of the consequences of NATO bombing on human health, on Natalie? What someone doesn't say -- these sterility problems, how much does this have to do with NATO bombing? Why didn't someone calculate that? Did you inform them about that? No, I don't. You know how this intelligence works? At 10.00 a.m., they call the state institution and by 12:00 p.m. we need to notify the European Commission as far as we've arrived, how many cases we've had, and then the whole business stops in all the institutions, two hours to get out of the paperwork to give some information. By what right do you inform them, by what right? Because of the political decision that someone decided to go there? Well, citizens are against the EU, EU citizens are against the EU. You have one more place in the bill where we report to the EU, or the European Commission. I look at it with disgust. Serbia is obliged to inform them. Why? We are not members of the EU. We do not want to be members of the EU. In a few days, these accession negotiations with the EU are to be terminated, and you are to put into our regulations such pointless provisions. That you wrote that we are informing the World Health Organization, and that I understand, professional communication. Bristle to inform about our health status? Well, they're responsible for NATO bombing, those from Brussels. There is also the headquarters of two criminal organisations -- the NATO Pact and the EU. Come on, let them know what damage and crime they've done to this people, and you'll keep them informed of any problems that have helped fertilization in these processes. Do you know how interested they are? Just to make it even better for them to figure out a way to make us some kind of next mess. Well, you see for yourself, every day there's nothing more than hell coming from them. Those who whine over Pristina with great Albania do so on the EU and NATO's orders. You're still just feeding them the data on what our condition is, that they have an even better picture of who we are and who we are. And you say heroically -- we're in the process, we're moving towards the EU, and that's our obligation, we have to. This is what I'm saying the people know. You're pulling into the EU, not making the EU go there, but you will. And I still haven't got an answer to the question -- where did you plan to have that bank, is it in Kragujevac, the Dragica Nikolic Foundation, what did she do? Where? Tell me, since you already know everything. So, it's all set up, just 18 months waiting for something to end, so the sublegal acts can come.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15210	According to the amendment, the word has a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15211	Thank you. This is about something that's written in this, it's not about content. Please, it is a shame to give such a law to the Assembly, where you do not know that it is not oral and written, but oral and written. It's illiterate. So that's illiteracy, literacy. But it's not just a matter of grammar, I think it's a shame that the government of the Republic of Serbia gives such a law, but it's really another thing. Because of your inaccuracy, because of the surface, you're causing a problem for people in the sense that they won't know what their rights are tomorrow. Here's what you did in the next article. Please pay attention, this is one of the most important members, I think, because one very good thing you can do with your indifference, you can compromise some women's right to biomedically aided insemination. Here's the thing. You say: “Extremely, the right to practice biomedically assisted insemination has both a full - time and a business capable woman who lives alone and who is capable of performing parental duties and is in such a psychosocial state that she can reasonably be expected to be able to perform parental duties in accordance with the law in the interests of the child. “ First, what is a woman living alone? Is that a woman without a partner? Does a woman without a partner, a woman without a husband, necessarily have to live alone? Is a woman who lives with her parents? Is that a woman who lives alone? Is the woman who lives with the dog the woman who lives alone? And does a woman who doesn't live alone have the right to the biomedically assisted insemination procedure? It's one of your indiscretions, one of your surfaces, which if someone literally applies the law, it can be quite easy for some women to deny the right to have children tomorrow. Secondly, a much more serious problem, because this is a matter of your indifference, so let's accept it, and let's hope it's so interpreted that it's a woman without a partner, even though she doesn't live alone, although that's not what the law says. There's been a much more serious failure, and I'm asking you to make this a serious commitment right now, because I think it's very important. In Article 4 of the Law, you are talking about the principle of medical justification for biomedically assisted fertilisation and you say that it is accomplished in the event that the treatment of infertility is not possible. Does this apply to this woman who lives alone, as you call a woman without a partner, even though she doesn't have to live alone? Does it have the right to process biomedically assisted fertilisation only if other treatments of infertility have failed to produce results? Does she have to prove that she's already been treating infertility, so she can't get pregnant, or does this mean women who want to have children even though they don't have a partner? Does this mean that they had to cure infertility, that there was no other way to get pregnant, so now they're allowed to treat infertility? In addition, I am opposed to what you say in the next position – next to the person mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article, who needs help with the procedures of biomedically assisted insemination in the treatment of infertility, which in fact suggests that this woman who wants to have a child, although she does not have a partner, must only be subjected to this if she treats infertility. So, it's terribly important, because you, with this first qualification that this woman has to live alone, and secondly, here, because you can see the possibility that she has the right to fertilize only if other infertility procedures aren't successful, you have a very large number of women who may have hoped to have children, you can pay no attention, I believe in indifference and superficiality, a large number of such women to eliminate from this process and to deny them the right to biomedically assisted insemination just because they don't live alone or just because they haven't already treated infertility, so it's not possible in other ways to get pregnant, but now here they have to do so. You have to accept that a certain number of women will go to biomedical aid because they want to, not because they can't have children any other way, because they've already treated infertility, because it didn't give results, but because it's so... As it says in the law, I don't know if that's your intention, if that's your intention, then I'll stand up to it, but as it says in the law, that means that the right to biomedical aided insemination only has those women who've already treated... I ask Mr. Laketić not to advocate the minister. It's very important to me what I'm saying. I believe that Laketic is important, but I think these women who may be denied the rights are more important than Mr. Laketić. So, as it says in the law, it is read that the right to biomedically assisted fertilisation will only be given by women without partners who have already treated infertility and where no other method of treatment for infertility has produced results. I don't know if that's the intention. If it is, it's very bad, and if it isn't, let's make it right, because maybe because of some language inaccuracy or I don't know what a large number of women we can deny the right to have children tomorrow, which I'm going to fight very hard against.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15212	Thank you. Dr Zlatibor Loncar has a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15213	Here, let me get this straight. First, this whole thing we talked about, you didn't bring any amendment or anything, just so we know, that it doesn't turn out to be anything else. I'll just confirm what you said yourself. So this law is designed to help, or to enable these women in both cases. So, don't just blame him for nothing, and since the woman you said, everyone knows well, she's thinking about a woman who doesn't live, she's not married, she's got no partner, so that's what she's thinking, and we all know that, because this isn't about any other subject. The other thing is, that woman has no choice but to go to an out-of-body and especially that woman who also has a problem, so she has to go to a donated egg cell. So you've absolutely said it yourself. The law was designed to help in one case and another and to regulate everything that has not been regulated so far. Well, that's the point you said yourself. But here, people understand they don't think there's any delusion or anything. So the law was designed to help exactly what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15214	Thank you. The word is made by MP Darko Laketić, by amendment. Here you go. (Alexandra Jerkov: Replica. You have no basis for replication, you have the opportunity to speak according to the amendment. Your task force has another minute and 34 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15215	Mr. Chairman, before I say anything about the amendment, I would only ask you, the previous speaker spoke about an amendment to Article 25 for which she did not even submit the amendment, that in the future, first of all, you make sure that the amendment is spoken of. I didn't answer the Rules of Procedure, I answered the amendment. As regards the amendment, therefore, to Article 24(4). The bill, first of all, must come from a completely different premise, and that is, if we are looking for certain information, certain data from the European Commission for Health and Security, so we too are asking for certain data, what is the effectiveness of their extra-body fertilisations, what are the complications, etc., we must be obliged to make certain information and data on our own research, i.e. about our own work and to contribute to them. To be clear, we are talking about professional, therefore, purely professional things, which are both in our interest and in the interest of the entire European and world population. So this isn't about any politics, or anything, and I would first of all separate here and separate the political attitude from the professional attitude. We must be part of the world's wider professional community, and in this way we can only have help and adequate guidance from some who are more developed than we are. On the other hand, you can't ask without having an obligation. The essence of this interaction is both rights and obligations. That's how I look at this particular article of the 24th Law that defined that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15216	The word has been made by MP Dusan Pavlovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15217	Thank you. I'd like to join this discussion and support my colleague Jerkov and pay attention to the next thing. So we're talking about whether a woman living alone can participate in a procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15218	Mr Pavlovic, you are talking about Article 25, and the debate is currently being held on Article 24(4). It's a bill of law. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Nikola Savic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15219	Article 29 speaks of the release of reproductive cells and embryos. There are three positions and we have suggested that the position of the 3rd member be deleted. This view states that in the cases referred to in the first of this attitude, BMPO may also be used by donated embryos of spouses, i.e. out-of-marriage partners in the process of homologous fertilisation, when spouses, or out-of-marriage partners from whom embryos do not want to use them for their own fertilisation, with their explicit written consent. We said that it should be deleted because the planned donation of only these embryos left in the procedure, and both partners sign the donation agreement, and it will be, in our experts' opinion, a very rare case and so we think it is necessary to allow the embryos for donation to be made in the laboratory to be made out of donated female and male cells. What's more reason to suggest this and ask you to accept it is the fact that this is how it's done in the most modern centers in the world. If we're going into some procedure, into something that might be new to us, we certainly shouldn't go with the lowest standards, but we should go with the highest standards. We need to set ourselves one level, become a serious center. You, Minister, said you expected us to be a centre for biomedical aided fertilization for the whole region, God forbid we're even for all of Europe, to be so developed. Let us look to those most, not to Europe as the EU, not to their recommendations that you must meet in order to go that way. You know that Serbian radicals are absolutely against Serbia's entry into the EU. We are talking about individual cases where, in modern and rich countries of Europe, a serious result has been achieved, and in this sense, we want to see ourselves and work in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15220	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Dubravko Bojić and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15221	As linguists, he disturbed me with the name of this law. It seems to me that he's a bit unhappi, glum, so I don't think the person who baptized him is satisfied with this kind of solution. In all of this, the most important thing is that someone who needs to understand that the issue of all the issues and priorities is to prevent the biological death of a nation, which is why the bill is also a good intention to move forward in this direction with the direction of demographic policy and the acceleration of birth. In our amendment, we asked for the removal of a member of the 31st law. Why are we looking to delete this member? Simply because the essence of this article is contained in Articles 19, 20 and 26. Article 19 provides for the competent minister to form a team of health workers and associates to carry out the work of biomedically assisted fertilisation. Article 20 obliges a biomedical assisted fertilisation centre to appoint a person in charge of carrying out this activity. It's a specialist doctor in the field of obstetrics and gynecology and a team of experts. We have here in Article 31 to form some expert commission which, in addition to the mentioned members, is made up of a graduate psychologist and a graduate lawyer. Question – why would a commission like this be formed when it is a matter of internal arrangement and organisation of the work system of the house and as such is not subject to the need for legal normation? We think it is unnecessary to add confusion and ineffectiveness to the system and decision-making procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15222	Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15223	Thank you very much. The New Party Health Resolution Committee has assessed this law as good, even more than that, so there are no fundamental objections, nor amendments to this law. I've submitted three amendments aimed at correcting lexical errors, and that's quite okay. You got the biggest compliment possible, the members of my Health Committee said – the law is like no one from the SNS did. That's the highest level of compliment you can get from the New Party. The analysis of the people working on this law and the public debate has shown that this profession has made its maximum contribution, and I think it is very important, especially for such a strong topic, and it would be good for these laws that are good to come from the government, which offer a solution to the problem that we have as a nation and state, which is evident and there should be no party or any other division. It is a pity that the discussions on amendments to this law cannot be attended by citizens of Serbia who were today invited to attend this session by MEP Tepic and for my part, but by obstructing work and normal conduct in parliament, the president of the Assembly has not approved their presence...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15224	Mr. Zivkovic, let's get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15225	... I'm sure they'd have a lot of soul and will to support a law that deals with biomedically assisted insemination, so I'm always talking about the subject of the agenda. We have some objections essential to the Transfusion Act, but that's not the point now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15226	Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15227	Mr. Minister, you have some big problem, but not just one, but about this law, you say very often – waist and waist did this law. The law is from the field of profession, so don't think we thought atomic physicists were working, but you have to know that one law is a very complex legal act and that some others participate in it. What you talk about very often is not so important right now, but the amendment that we have submitted to Article 35, where we propose that article 35 be deleted, is in line with the previous amendments to Article 29, 31 and Article 35, talking about embryo donors. The embryo donors are spouses or extramarital partners who gave up using their embryos for their fertilisation, paragraph 1. Article 2 — the donors referred to in Article 1(1) shall grant written consent to use their embryo in the fertilisation of other spouses, i.e. out-of-marriage partners, or women referred to in Article 25(2). We have suggested that it be deleted and you say in an explanation why the amendment is not accepted, the donation of embryo cells possible with a strict legal, ethical, medical framework, with a thorough examination of the donor. When I said this at first that you have a certain kind of problem, so we have this whole problem together, but that you're stressing that the law is a profession, it won't solve many of the problems that the practice has already recorded. During the opening presentation of yours, concerning these two laws on which a united debate is being held, you said it was most often successful there when the success of out-of-body fertilisation and was realised, most often it was the last time. Which means they and that law didn't do the waist and they weren't professional. No matter how much you and any of us have tried a little immorality, so we, in order it doesn't happen, and if you say, are going to conduct a detailed examination, however, that is, under the authority of the embryo donor, so that it doesn't come to the question, that this could not be done in a distorted way, we have also suggested that a member of the 35th of this bill be deleted. Mr Krasic is close to me, but I will now answer him in this way, which is why they are asking for those reports, and that information and all that information, simply because there is no alternative for this regime to the EU path. He's homeless, he's on his way there, the regime's on its way there, and that's why they're trying to make out with them, make out with them. Now an explanation, in order to ask for something, we must give, so we give much more than we can in our sleep expect from both the EU and, of course, Mr Krasic, the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15228	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15229	The Serbian Radical Party has requested that Article 36 of the Bill be deleted, because in this part, as in some other members we will talk about later, this law is already entering into one legal context and I would say in a social and family relationship, not just in the field of profession, to which you are potential, and it is indeed a professional law. I've got to go back a little bit, but I'll be brief, since we don't have much time for the MPs' group yet. Back in the former SFRY in 1978, when this area was first regulated in general, it was precisely indicated that the progenitor of reproductive cells had certain obligations and certain rights, but the legal consequences should not be. You here say, in Article 36, that the way in which this member's data is communicated is prescribed by the minister responsible for health affairs, in order to warn certain legal consequences for progenitors of reproductive cells. We are a country that should regulate everything by law, and if by law it is clearly defined what their rights and obligations are, that it does not happen tomorrow, as you have cases, there were then, at that time, when the first time the process of artificial insemination in our country began, that an anonymous donor should be exposed later to the judicial determination of paternity, for example. That's just one example, because it came to someone's mind, from a variety of life circumstances. Since we're a country where continental law is applied, so this isn't America, and there's no way that through some special contracts, at least this law didn't foresee it, between recipients and donors, to make certain that I glegonically call them, arrangements, it can be in countries with Angolan law, and there are clearly defined, precise and these rights and obligations. We felt that this Article 36 law should be deleted in order to remove any doubt and to make it clear that there are no legal consequences for the donor, which are spoken of in the previous members.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15230	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word. (Zoran Krasic: I won't. No, no, no, Thank you. To Article 45. The amendment was brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 47th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15231	When it comes to this article, which has a nickname – Pre-implantation genetic diagnosis in the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation, the views of experts from the Serbian Radical Party differ with your views of the minister, i.e. the views of your team. They've suggested to us here, and we've accepted that, to suggest that this article 47 be deleted. In the explanation that we wrote in this amendment, we have specified what is so necessary, because it is not centralized anywhere in the world, among other things, and we, as you can see, are again calling for a positive practice of major world centres. That's what we've been suggesting to you all along. You're saying, among other things, that the license for the diagnostic procedure of this Article 1 is given by the Administration. True, based on the opinion of a multidisciplinary consular council, etc. But we're telling you that management certainly can't and has no competent people, members, who could correct a decision. You know, if you get any opinion from that consular team, and we can accept that it's something that's not discussed further, then there's no need to give consent to the administration. If the administration gives consent, then that means the administration has the possibility to change that. And you at the Administration, for sure, don't have that kind of expertise and there'd be greotas for experts at that level to sit in administrations. That's why we think it would be a good idea for you to accept this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15232	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Dr. Muamer Bacevic, to Article 48. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Muamer the Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15233	Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers and assistants, we have submitted nine amendments, a total of seven have been accepted. I want to thank the Government first of all for understanding, we have made an excellent law a little bit of a correction in the legal norm, given that in all seven amendments there have been words about the uniforming of the way in which this text is written, where there are certain norms and we are advised by the legal services to be installed in the context of writing this law. The government has heard and adopted for this, and we are truly satisfied with the law, and essentially, and we see that it will also be in some codified, written sense, very quality done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15234	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15235	Perhaps the most controversial thing of this law is surrogate motherhood and we talked about it the most, and MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, in principle debate, as well as many other MPs, and that is the essence of this amendment. In fact, at point 18, Article 49 prohibits one of the banned activities in the work of biologically medically assisted fertilisation from being defined by surrogate motherhood. I will take this opportunity because, simply, it is our business opportunity to repeat once again the arguments why we find it wrong for the government to ban surrogate motherhood by this law, that the arguments we have heard from the minister were not convincing enough for us and not acceptable. We believe that there can be no argument that because of the fear of possible abuses and commercialisation of surrogate motherhood, we give up one possibility that one number of couples in Serbia can provide an opportunity to achieve as parents and have their own offspring. I want to repeat once again that there are different practices in the world. There are countries that allow surrogate motherhood, there are countries where it is not allowed and that is a fact – 12 of the 28 countries of the European Union allow it. It is the UK, Greece, Bulgaria, Belgium and the Netherlands that is allowed altruistic surrogate, i.e. a surrogate as a benefactorial act and which is not based on a commercial basis. Surrogacy is also allowed in Russia, Ukraine, Macedonia, the United States and more in many countries. I repeat once again, I think the essence of every law, including this, should be that if there is any possibility for a Serbian citizen to create the possibility of something good and beautiful happening in his life, we need as MPs who pass the laws to enable and create conditions to achieve this possibility, and that, based on all the knowledge we have, any possible abuses, possibilities and manipulations, we should prevent clearly defined legal rules that can be changed and perfected based on experience and on everything that is happening in the world. We don't have to say - we're powerless, we're afraid of abuse and we're not going to do anything. Unfortunately, this is not the first time we have heard a message like this from the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is not directly related to health care, it is related to the state of sports, where the Prime Minister spoke – I do not have the strength to deal with the privatisation of clubs, so it gave up. The state doesn't have the power to deal with hooligans in sports, so it gave up. It's one bad principle, one bad message, and unfortunately in this law it repeats itself. Surrogacy and the issue of this kind of ban is the question of whether it is in accordance with the Constitution? Is this how we make it impossible for the Constitution to guarantee the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be realized as parents, just because we are afraid of abuse? There are enough practices in the world today to go, in this situation where we are constantly talking about the problem of poor demographics in Serbia, in which we can all deal with it, to say here, where we have one option that is possible, according to medical conditions, which is possible under this law, he describes, practically, the whole process that would be carried out in the case of surrogate motherhood, it is described in this law, but because of this specificity, that the woman who ultimately gives up the pregnancy, disowns that child that comes out of it – that we give up? I don't think we have the right to give up as MPs, or this government, or any other government. I hope that's not to be justified by the fact that it was in the previous law, because it was in 2009. Well, I guess as a society we took some step forward from 2009? Because if there were no mechanisms then, do we have them today? We believe that such a ban in this law is one giving up in a place where it shouldn't happen. Our proposal is to delete this ban, and to define the issue of surrogate motherhood, whether it's a special law or a civil law that we've all been waiting for together, I don't know how many years, much longer than five years the mandate of this government, but we've been waiting for it long enough. But if he couldn't by that law, he could make a special law, it wouldn't be God knows how long the law, 20 members I believe would cover all possibilities. I repeat again -- I call on the government to accept this amendment, to deal with this problem. It's not indecisive. There are countries that, above all, are talking about the possibility of altruistic surrogates, to prevent the commercialisation in this area, the choice of surrogate mothers, the definition of the relationship between reproductive material donors and the woman who needs to carry out that pregnancy. There are practices, there are good practices, of course there are commercial uses of this institute and the problems that have arisen, but I don't think giving up is brave, it's not fair. I call on the government to deal with this problem, not to give up on this step now. The idea that this will be solved by some other law, I'm afraid it will be prevented by the ban that is in this law, that someone will say tomorrow – well, it's forbidden by this law, we can't even talk about it in the Civil Law. It's the wrong way. I call upon my colleagues to encourage the government to accept this amendment, to erase this ban, and then all together, if there is no possibility in the government, although I believe there are enough professional people and people who can take advantage of all the good experiences that exist for surrogate motherhood, that we legally regulate this institute, not ban it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15236	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15237	Thank you. I would like to join my colleague Đurisic's discussion and also encourage both the minister and the government to reconsider this practice. We had a discussion here on Friday about the same thing. The minister said, if I understood correctly – I support it, but since I can't guarantee that the whole thing is being conducted in a legal way and that economic aspects, commercial aspects of surrogate motherhood, we decided to criminalise it, that is to say, declare such a practice a criminal act. I'd like to ask you one question, Minister, or any of your associates, we have, say, an organ legacy program in this country for over ten years and there are also possible misuses. So, the body's legacy of money or the purchase of organs is also a crime. Should we put an end to this practice because of that or any other practice where abuses are possible? As you know, whatever is done among people in society is possible some abuses. Does this mean that we should put an end to all practices where abuses are possible? I'll remind you once again of article 63. The constitution of Serbia, which says - everyone has the right to freely decide on the birth of children and that the Republic of Serbia encourages parents to decide on the birth of children and help them do so. If you declare surrogate motherhood a criminal offense, how do you actually help them have children? How do you help those who can't have children? If you find people who can't have children and who have found someone who's willing to volunteer for altruistic reasons to be a surrogate, should the state help them or should it prevent them from bringing the whole thing to an end? Under the current bill, the state would prevent them from doing so. How, then, does this comply with the Constitution, Article 63, which each one has the right to freely decide on the birth of children? So these are the things that concern personal choices. I'm going to say it again, no one here is ready, I guess, in this room, I mean only Mr. Seselj was ready for it, but no one is willing to accept surrogate motherhood for commercial reasons, I think it's morally unacceptable, but for altruistic reasons I think such a practice is acceptable to us and that the state, in fact, is there a state to do and to control what can come into some suspicious area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15238	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15239	Thank you. You know how, when you say there's no power at this point to solve potential problems in this area, then that means that the rule of law gives up and gives up sanctioning potential abuses. The state's job is to sanction abuses, the state's apparatus is to do this, not to say in advance – we can't do this because we're afraid of possible abuses. In principle, we discussed this issue and the minister replied that this bill is in line with the Family Law of Serbia. I didn't say it wasn't, we stayed unsaid until the end, I didn't get a chance to say it, so now I'm taking this opportunity on this amendment. I'm not a lawyer, but as far as I understand it, according to our legal system on parenting, it's prescribed that the mother is the only one and only the woman who gave birth to a child and no other woman. If we introduce surrogate motherhood by adopting the amendments that I support, we are tearing down that basis of family law in Serbia and we need to change it. The draft Civil Code of Serbia envisions surrogate motherhood under solidly defined conditions, which require some kind of co-operation. So surrogate motherhood would be allowed from altruistic motives only for domestic citizens and only where this is the last chance, where no other BMPO method has produced results. The truth is, it's not prescribed, let's say, the minimum age of the surrogate mother, it's supposed to be 18 years old, but I mean, the legal profession knows the solutions, and it could be offered to this home for adoption and later in practice. It has been mentioned here many times that the profession has put forward a bill. You know how, this is a political body, this is the legislative body of the Republic of Serbia, this is not a medical congress. So we respect, of course, the high contribution of the medical profession to forming a bill, but here we make laws, we don't make an operating hall. We're making a law, so the problem is multidisciplinary, so you're going to allow at least another legal profession to be included in order for some more comprehensive solutions to be drawn up in this bill, not to be forced to change this law over half a year or a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15240	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15241	I have to go back first. Serious words have been said about the transplant and the abuse of organ donation. Please just take care of it, please, give any example in Serbia, anything. Don't talk casually, there are citizens whose only salvation is and the only way to survive and heal, that we're not just going through the flat-rate stuff, because it's extremely strictly defined by law, so, so, so far, I don't think there's gonna be any abuse. The second thing, just because practice is different there are so many opinions. The third thing, this law has been since 15 December, means long enough in the assembly procedure, public debate and everything. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that no proposal has arrived, an orderly proposal on how to regulate it, and it's not flat-out, let's talk. So these are facts and I think it's a good one. You said, "Okay, that's what she said." Here are the representatives of the citizens, the representatives of the government, and I think this is the right place to talk about it, and I think as much as we need to talk, we're talking until we find the best solution and it's much better the way it is than any other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15242	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15243	Mr. Lonchar, if you can still interpret my exposure as planned. I didn't mention at all that there were any abuses in organ legacy practice, but I said that it's possible that there might be such practices for commercial reasons, but you just gave an answer to what we're talking about here right now. So, you said that criminal acts in organ legacy practice aren't exactly because everything is correct or strictly prescribed, which is what the state controls the whole process. Couldn't we apply that to surrogate motherhood practice? Everything is well prescribed, strictly controlled, and where will there be room for abuse? A colleague Đuric just said that, the state needs to control such things and we are actually proposing it, with intent or with a silent premise that the state will control it. I certainly won't suggest this kind of very risky practice and say – the state doesn't really need to interfere at all, let the citizens agree on what they're going to do. Therefore, it is understood that the state will control this practice as well as this whole practice of biomedically assisted fertilisation that is regulated by this law. The state is the key to all this being done in accordance with principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15244	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Marko Djurisic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15245	I just want to look back on a few more things that were said in this debate. By reading the explanation of the minister, this law and this part that speaks of a public debate that was held in February 2016, I found no word on the subject of surrogate motherhood. So here in what's been sent to us, it doesn't say that's what's been discussed. Then you said in your statement that it was a topic and that it was a busy position that at this point due to the possibility of abuse does not go into allowing the Institute of Surrogacy. You didn't talk about it in principle then, but here you are, repeating, we don't know what all the views were, we as MPs, even if we can't get out of this argument that was sent to us under the law, to see what all the views were made. The fact is, you said, the law has been in the process since 16 December, there were no other proposals. I said, we didn't even think that this law could define everything related to surrogate motherhood. So, here's what a colleague said, he should touch family law. It is in that civil code, or draft, which has been in some public debate for a long time. We think it's bad that there's still a ban here. So we think the bad message the state sends is if there's a ban here. We think it will work badly for a future debate on whether or not surrogate motherhood should be allowed in the Republic of Serbia, if the law prohibits it. There's gonna be an argument for those who might be against it for some reason, so now it's forbidden there, so we're not gonna talk about it. It often happens in a discussion that such arguments are used. That is why we believe that the essence of this amendment is to just delete this point and later delete a member of 66 who defines surrogate motherhood as a criminal offence, to delete it from this law, and to see which ways and how it can and should be allowed in Serbia surrogate motherhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15246	Thank you. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15247	The position of Article 1 of Article 50 speaks of, in general, Article 50 concerning the storage of semen cells, unfertilised egg cells and embryos, and Article 1, says that a man, or woman who, according to the knowledge of modern medical science, threatens to remain infertile, can give the BMPO Centre, or the Bank written consent to give their reproductive cells for storage. Our amendment is to erase this part of the need for the knowledge of modern medical science to threaten danger. First, because it's given too wide and will change, as you say. Some things are known today, sometimes we can't know. There may sometimes be a tragedy in some cases that a man or woman overnight loses the possibility of reproduction, due to some accident or something, and we believe that the possibility of having their cells reproduced on watch, can be made possible by any adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia, without this requirement being a restriction that there is some knowledge. If we talk about the desire that as many children are born in the Republic of Serbia as possible, that as many people in Serbia as possible as parents, that there is no need, no meaning of such a ban, and that everything in practice is likely to go around. If anyone wants to, I understand that part of the criticism, someone will say – this will motivate people in Serbia to delay parenting, so their healthy reproductive tissue that is healthier and in better condition when they are 20 and 25 years of age frozen, to use it for maybe ten years to help put off parenting, but I think we create conditions for more people to be parents at some point. Some people, for reasons that we can agree on or not, are putting off their parenting. In Serbia, unfortunately, these are the most common economic reasons. The inability to work as young people, to have a decent life, to live on their own, to get married later, to start communities later, and that parenting is becoming more and more delayed. It is a fact, and the medical profession knows that biological material in this younger life span is more quality and is better with it. I don't think there's any need to stand this limit, that the solution that we're proposing is that everyone can give their reproductive material and freeze it, and that reproductive material is kept as much as that person wants, and that's a better solution, that's a better solution and that's for promoting the donor that this law is talking about, because people might think more about it, so if they decide to keep it to themselves, they might decide to give their material to the bank so that this law and achieve one of their intentions. I call on you, I don't even understand the reason for this written refusal, because it's exactly what we want, and that's because we think anyone who wants to freeze their reproductive material can and should have a clear option under this law. So that it's no longer in the gray zone, today in some institutions it can be done, in some it can't be done. You yourself have said one of the objectives of this law is to establish rules that will apply in all the institutions involved, that it will introduce a unique practice at the level of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that if this restriction remains, maybe some people will, because of what I don't know, maybe someone in life that can't be predicted and doesn't belong to this category of knowledge of modern medical science, that we'll deny them the right to be parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15248	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go. Just a moment, please. Please reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15249	Thank you. I fully agree with the view of the Government and the Ministry of Health that the proposed amendment is rejected and the argument given by the Government on the refusal of the proposed amendment is quite correct. Namely, Article 25. The bill accurately but indeed accurately defines which persons may be involved in the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation. The paper for this law is that BMPO procedure can be used in cases of medical indications to preserve fertility in minors, but also in minors. The whole spectrum is such conditions that can cause a reduction or permanent infertility. I will mention some of them, such as oncofertile procedures, such as cancer, especially young people who have not started or even completed their reproduction, then there are other endometriosis states, uterine miomis, planned small pelvic surgery, various systemic illnesses, risk patients, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15250	Thank you. Minister Zlatibor Lončar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15251	I don't know if we understand each other. This law doesn't stop anyone from leaving their reproductive material. We even predicted it to be underage faces. So there's no obstacle to anyone who wants to leave theirs, we've just turned our attention to those who know and who's getting into trouble. There, that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15252	Thank you. By amendment, Mr. Djurishic? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15253	I would agree with the Minister if this solution had been accepted. I don't see why this restriction stands -- it can if it has knowledge of modern medical science to threaten danger. It is precisely the essence of our amendment to erase it, that everyone can do it and make it clear. In cases, of course, where this knowledge exists, it should be a doctor's obligation to distract and distract the patient from doing so because of these indications of the medical who exist, which occur, it should do so necessarily, or interfere with him more to do so anyway. I don't know, I'm interpreting this law, I have to admit, as a restriction, that not everyone can, but only one who has the knowledge that at some point in the future his health will be compromised in this way. Well, maybe we're interpreting the law differently, I can only accept it, but I hope in this case I'm wrong, although I'm just reading what's in the law, not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15254	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15255	And this article speaks of a period within which seeds of cells, eggs, and early embryos are kept. That deadline is prescribed for five years. What we've been looking for, it's to erase that five-year deadline because, as far as I'm aware, there's no medical evidence that keeping it medically is not possible for more than five years. So we don't understand why this amendment of ours has been rejected, especially because the deadline is said to be determined to store reproductive cells during the period of reproductive age of the woman necessary for birth. I don't know why it's only been defined by that five-year-old deadline? When it enters the process, it may take longer than five years, perhaps what you often say here, the development of medicine, as the border here has moved from 40 to 42 years, may move further into some future, so I don't think there's any need to stand this limit of five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15256	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15257	The deadlines for keeping reproductive material in article 51 are a little illogical, and hence probably prompts the amendment of colleagues from another parliamentary group, as a five plus watchdog is prescribed on request for another five years. However, when it comes to persons from the previous member, therefore, those who have been identified with threatening infertility, for them and their reproductive cells, an unlimited storage period is foreseen. I'd like to hear now an explanation why they're supposed to be unlimited, and for these other five plus five, if we know that, say, donating reproductive cells is only allowed for persons who are alive? So the death of the face stops the legal possibility of his reproductive cells being donated, so I don't see then the purpose of keeping them unlimited. It would make sense for me to write or until the death of the person they come from, and that's not what it says. It's a little unconsistent to me. Of course, I am going back to the question referred to in the previous amendment and I ask only an explanation - is the infertility of a medically indicated prerequisite for a person to acquire the right to store his reproductive cells in a bank? Just yes or no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15258	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15259	There are these two terms here -- one plus five years and this for five plus five years goes to people who go voluntarily and give. This one's life-long is about... (Vladimir Djuric: On unlimited. ) All right, to unlimited, because we introduced that children, i.e. Less than 18 years old, for medical reasons, because then you can't limit them, to take someone for a certain period. It's the only reason, and this five plus five years, it's one of the attitudes of people who deal with it, that it's some objective period and it's easy to keep because it's not even a little simple to keep and maintain that material. That's one reason. So that's the difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15260	Thank you. By amendment, MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15261	Let me repeat the question - yes or no? Is the threatening infertility as a medically indicated thing a prerequisite for reproductive cells being placed in a bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15262	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanovic, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic together submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15263	Thank you. It is the same thing – keeping reproductive cells of those persons from Article 50, where you are very strangely giving that term: "unbounded". So it doesn't even apply to the duration of a person's life to whom reproductive cells belong, which might make sense in this situation where you say it's about minors, etc. You do not say, "In the lifetime of the life of the person to whom the cells belong, but you say, unlimited." It's unlimited, what the children would say, forever. I don't know what that means in law? What's unlimited, as long as it lasts? However, the bigger problem is who are those persons who can store their reproductive cells and reproductive tissues at the VMP centre later. What the law says is that these are the only persons who, according to the knowledge of modern medical science, threaten to become infertile. So all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are threatened to become infertile and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will at one point become infertile because simple biology works that way, the human body works that way. Now, Mr. Lonchar, I'm interested in whether the knowledge of modern medical science and the fact that a woman at 45-50 will become infertile and then that woman, because the time is just approaching when she will become infertile because every woman becomes infertile, does that apply to such a woman, or is it only to the woman who, according to the knowledge of modern medical science, threatens to become infertile? Again, it's a group of people who can use it, as well as what we haven't solved whether it applies only to women who have already treated sterility, who couldn't cure it, so now they have the right to biomedically assisted insemination, or any woman can do it. It's very important, please, that we discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15264	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković Curičić and joint MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15265	We were probably wrong about that amendment, so you read a large number of us who allegedly submitted that amendment, but I'm going to simplify it. We actually had two amendments here, one referring to item 2, and the other referring to Article 51's position. However, in order for you from the government to understand me well, I have to make a small introduction to what it is. Well-meaningly, I'm just saying, when this adoption process is over, hire a lecturer to sort out this text a little bit. Don't get me wrong, I Nischlia don't lecture anyone about grammar and spelling, but they say this - donate someone and donate something. You have a lot of members where these two concepts intertwine – donate and donate. Donate something, donate an embryo, donate a cell, etc. But it's not the point of these amendments. Next, in order to understand Article 51, you say in article 34 – donors can be full-time, healthy and business-friendly persons. I have to tell you, you have resorted to a medical qualification of conditions, but rightly one principle applies – adulthood is proven by an appropriate correction that a person is more than 18 years old, health is proven by some specialist doctor's report, and business ability is understood. Doctors basically just give assurance that someone is not in a business capacity, and business ability exists in everyone. Maybe someone got their legal and business skills mixed up. It doesn't matter that much either. Furthermore, in Article 44, you have prescribed a state registry of BMPO's activity, but you say – the administration runs a single register of BMPO procedures. It's not action, it's procedure. You've extended four groups of questions. The first three groups literally in article 45 are working, and in the fourth group they are – donated to reproductive cells, tissues and embryos, according to the provisions of this law. What does that record of yours contain? Then you say - the data from Article 44(2) of this Act, which make up the content of the national register, are data on the sample taken. You even changed the title. I agree that it is a pattern, at the very least, but you can't change the title. Now let me come to this article 51. Please, if you said it was kept for five years, then it doesn't make any sense when that deadline expires that you invite someone to agree on whether they will continue. It makes sense to call on a man before the term is over, and ask him, "Will you continue to guard yourselves?" So what's certain and what counts is that last day of five years. Someone told you that, he says – it could even be a violation, to match a physical face. Where did you find that, aman, in an explanation? Why do you write that in an explanation? Furthermore, in many of the provisions of this bill, there must be a clear difference from the situations prescribed in Article 25, you have item 1, item 2, paragraph 3. Users, first, married and out-of-marriage partners, attitude number 2, to paraphrase, a woman who wants to be a single mother, doesn't want an out-of-marriage or a marriage community, but wants to have a child, that's attitude 2, and attitude 3 is those who delay the issue of conception and birth for a future period, and there is a basis for what you wrote – medically-medically indicated reasons where infertility can occur in some emerging period. And there's an excuse for taking from a minor. So the indications are an excuse. I don't understand why you've defined yourself to this variant of attitude 2 on unlimited time-saving of material, completely unnecessary. As a member of the 35th and 36th of your bill is unnecessary. You could have put it all in article 34 and you already had it in article 34. But you said well, in December 2015 the EU stamped and said – this is the best European. Now everything that's written here you can't change, you think it's nailed, written, some MPs have learned how to praise it, I agree, there's no problem. But I also calculated your schedule and told you – from December 2015 until today life happened. Thank God, life took place, and this bill, when it becomes law and when you go with it, be sure, because of principled indiscriminateness, will be a stumbling block in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15266	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15267	It's a good thing this amendment was accepted. This essentially allows for what was said in the principle debate, which is that reproductive cells, tissues and embryos can be freely exported and imported to the Republic of Serbia. With our amendment, this part of the exports, that is to say, to be addressed outside the Republic of Serbia, to an institution registered for the procedures of performing biological and medically assisted fertilisation was not envisaged, and our amendment predicted it. I'm glad the government accepted that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15268	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15269	Article 54 regulates imports, i.e. exports of reproductive cells. We suggested that this article be deleted 54th. I find it interesting to have the government's argument, so we are proposing by amendment to delete a member who allows imports, or exports of reproductive cells. You say – the amendment is not accepted because the bill allows imports, i.e. exports, etc. This is pretty unserious by whoever wrote this. So it hasn't even been read, but it's important to write something. You further said that citizens of the Republic of Serbia can be donors to their reproductive cells, as well as that they can participate in the BMPO procedure with donated reproductive cells on clear predetermined criteria. Where are those predetermined criteria, Minister? They're not here. If it's something that you're going to sublegally solve, it's not good again. If we had these clear and precise conditions, we might not have asked to delete this member, but we sought first because of that, and secondly because of the fact that we think that we in the state of Serbia must provide incentives to create domestic institutions for the activity of the bank of reproductive cells, tissues and embryos. So we have to do everything that's written here and what's likely to be written in these sublaws, to make as much affirmative as possible in the state of Serbia. That's why we thought it would be best if this member were deleted, that we were doing it for starters, and that we were affirming with us, so when it developed eventually, then we could expand that co-operation. In particular, these conditions for which we do not know exactly what the conditions are which will regulate imports, or exports of reproductive cells, you say – the director of the administration gives permission for each individual case of imports, or exports of cells, estimating the justification of exports, or imports. It's a little bit much, isn't it? The director of the board. How can the director of the administration take this much and this significant responsibility, or how can you give it to him and how can a director accept it? What is the profession of that director, who is an alien who all what is provided for in this law, all possible specialities etc. What's in that one man, in one head? It's not good. It's not good in general. We have been warning for 17 years how bad it is when such things are done and, among other things, that you do not listen to us and that they did not listen to us, we have every three months amendments and additions to the law, because you will not hear the voice of people who are seriously doing their job as a MP. And this law will come very soon with amendments and additions and we will spend another day or two and we MPs and you from the government on this bill, because you don't want to do anything other than what you predicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15270	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15271	Thank you. We support the proposal to delete this article in the Proposal for a Law on Biomedical Aided Fertilisation and on Imports and Exports until further notice, and immediately the proposal is to refer amendments and additions to this law, in which we will return the possibility of import and export, but under clearly defined conditions. So, right now it's very unserious that in this bill we allow no single member to import and export, and then we say that everything else will be defined in the sublaw, it simply can't. You're bringing MPs into a very awkward situation. I'm supposed to vote on this law that some citizens expect as a bit of palm water, and I can't vote on it unless I'm sufficiently informed about what I'm actually voting on. On Friday, the minister here told us that the proposals for sublegal acts are already ready and that they are waiting for the adoption of the law so that most of them could be passed immediately afterwards. I assume that the sublegal act relating to imports and exports of reproductive cells is one of those prepared in the light of the proposal. I am referring to what my colleagues have said before from other parliamentary groups, why didn't we get this proposal? So we can vote more informedly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15272	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Muamer Bačevac. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15273	Thank you. So, for this past one, there were conditions for me to answer. Thank you for having the government accepts that it corrects its mistakes even if they are spelling, and I am only using this opportunity to thank my fellow Ivana, who is seriously working to correct the texts she sends to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15274	Members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15275	We've asked for an expropriation of a member of the 57th Mr. Minister, the SRS believes that if this member remains in the law, he can cause certain problems. First of all, here is a mistake in the first position, because when you say – a child initiated by the BMPO reproductive cell of the donor has the right to seek for medical reasons an introduction to the donor's documentation and to specify, when he is 15 years old and capable of judgment. There are laws before this government, and there are times when you took charge of this resort. In 2011, we adopted a family law where it is clearly specified that a child at the age of 15 has the ability to reason. So we can't leave unspecified whether anyone has or isn't, and then there's got to be the next attitude if you wanted to, and you don't have to remain this member at all, that then a team of psychologists should work in case they find that child unable to judge. What's the point here? The point is that this member should not remain because, in the largest number, we are such a society, and prevails on such a percentage in statistics that almost 100% of parents who take reproductive cells from the donor, anonymous, do not inform, and even up to the age of 15 and you know it, Mr. Minister, is so mainly in Serbia, their child that it was conceived in this way and in some other countries. Imagine now what kind of problem this child will be if he remains this member of the law, through what he was given as a right when he starts looking for that information. In order to avoid all these things, I believe they will agree, and it is not, above all, Dr Djukic, that the state must first of all deal with this in addition to the possibility of biomedically assisted fertilisation that the child that was conceived and born is healthy. We do not now have the illusion that the state of Serbia will, in due course, in six months, 18 months have these resources, but I have consulted a team of experts from the SNS and referred to an additional method that will allow us to be, not quite 100%, but, let's say, in Britain where this method is represented 66% of the certainty that if a technique is applied, I have to read it because it is a completely foreign term for me – comparatively genomic hybridization, which costs an additional 2,000 euros, will remove the possibility, is it so, Mr. Minister, that there are even greater risks, especially in women who are in recent years. This method, which has been applied in most cases to clinics in Great Britain so far, allows embryos that are only a few days old, not a few weeks old, as it would be here in these optimal circumstances, to take cells and thus to check whether there are some, God forbid, genetic disorders and future problems for this newborn child. So in this direction it should be considered, and this can certainly leave lasting psychological consequences for that child who would enter into the process of seeking that donor, or the donor, and there is no end or reason, because according to all the other intended members and strictly prescribed conditions in the register are exactly listed, starting with a history of some disease that the donor had, through a comprehensive health situation at the time when the donor accesss the bank. It doesn't need to remain this member, because it will really cause a lot of problems in the later life of the children who were conceived in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15276	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15277	This is a question that regulates donor anonymity, we also talked about on Friday, and I still didn't get an answer to the question – to what extent this member agreed with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, Article 57 states that children only have the right under certain conditions to know who their biological parents are, of course, are conceived in this procedure. In the Constitution of Article 64, it states very precisely that each child has the right to a personal name, to enter in the birth certificate, the right to know his origin and the right to preserve his identity. I'm interested in you, Mr. Minister, said on Friday that this law is in accordance with some other laws, and I would ask you to answer me if it's in accordance with Article 64. The Constitution of Serbia. I'm going to give you just one example of the dangers that this member or this determination can carry, that is, that someone interprets to me, you or anyone on your team, to tell me what the solution to the next situation is. Mr. Minister, they said on Friday that this law was in accordance with some other laws, so I would ask you to answer me if it was in accordance with Article 64. Serbia's Constitution? I'm going to give you just one example of the danger this member or this determination can bear, or someone to interpret to me, you or anyone on your team to interpret to me, what's the solution to the next situation. Imagine that I gave up a reproductive cell, whether I'm a male or a female, and imagine my son or daughter getting into a marriage or a sexual relationship with a child that was conceived that way tomorrow or the day after. Would either of them have the right to know that I'm the biological parent of both persons? If we don't have that right, then there could be an incest. What happens in cases like this? Is this member of the law covering such cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15278	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15279	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the honourable fellow MPs, above all, I would return to the essential part of this amendment, which is precisely this part that says "advisable for judgment". So, a person, or child, capable of judgment. I think that's the essential thing, first of all, to agree with the views, or the provisions of the Patients' Rights Act. As for the Law on Patients' Rights, it can be said that this particular member who defines the ability to judge children who turned 15 years of age is not a member who, in some earlier period, had any objection, or any objections to that article. In this way, it was primarily an effort to keep these two laws from collapsing each other. In this way, this Article 57 of Section 1 states that a child who is able to reason, therefore, who has turned 15 may, for medical reasons alone, ask for information, but not about identity, but about genetic material, heredity, and so on, about everything that is relevant to the disease itself and the medical moment that is being spoken of and that it gets these data and that tomorrow, on the basis of that data, this person is cured or helped to cure it. So in this way I think that, first of all, these two laws are harmonized, the Law on Patients' Rights, on the one hand, and this Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination, and on the other hand it is absolutely clear and decided about the possibility that the person who was conceived in this way would get information that would mean to her in the treatment of a particular disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15280	The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15281	Here's what you asked. It is in accordance with the Family Law and in accordance with the Constitution. There's a member who says in which case you can go, and it refers to a donated cell, when you can find out, when you don't. So it's absolutely in line with both the Constitution and the Family Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15282	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 57th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15283	Be careful, Article 58, the final position is that "Government submits reports", the crowd, "from the area of BMPO to the European Commission, the EU", and you answer me with the same text that you replied to me to the amendment that I submitted to Article 24(4). It refers to the reporting of these serious side effects and serious side effects. Notify the European Commission again. These unwanted deadlines are July 30th, and here they don't, whenever they ask you to, you file all the reports and you'll take the complete register and you'll show everything because you wrote it like that. I'd love for the public to hear what's going on. You say the amendment is not accepted because it is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to comply with its laws with EU rules, and it is, meeting that obligation in the field of biomedicine, etc. So, in December 2015, this process is over, they've stamped it, it's okay, and that's the story, it's over. So, the EU has conditioned that this is how it has to be, that you have to report regularly to the European Commission not WHO, you inform non-healthy institutions. This European Commission has not cured anyone, it has no headphones, it has no lab. Biomedicine Authority, is that a health institution? It's management, the administrative authority. It's a state body. What kind of waist is that? The profession between the state body of the Republic of Serbia and the paradoxical, para-administrative EU body. Data shall be provided on all activities of BPMO. Why? One says: “Play and slaughter. ” What did you say? We can't ask for something unless we meet some obligations. Well, I'm warning you, don't ask for anything, then you have no obligation. Why are you asking them? You're asking the most prominent professional institutions to treat this, how we should organize ourselves, etc. Why from the European Commission, please? With what right of the European Commission? There's one more thing I need to tell you about. Fifteen years in health insurance and health care regulations mean, provided the child is able to understand, etc., that it has the right to know about its health. BPM is not a health condition. He's supposed to meet some other things here. That's why we're proposing to delete it, because it's 15 years old, that's exactly the year the personality is formed, matures. Then young women and young women, children, go astray, on a good path, etc. How is it going to affect someone who hasn't known for 15 years, and now out of the blue gets this kind of information? It's individual. Someone can react one way, someone else. That's why we asked because this has nothing to do with those 15 years from the Health Protection Act. A 15-year-old kid needs to know what his medical condition is, his analysis, if he can understand the meaning, but this area is dangerous for him, for his emotional maturation, and in that sense we asked to erase this. You didn't think that we who defend these amendments would understand anything about medicine, did you? We don't understand each other. This drew our attention to the people who are from the medical profession, from medical activity. You see, our amendments are atypical, not as we write regularly, but as we try to give some explanation that you can understand, to see that nothing is dangerous and nothing hurts if the amendment is accepted. A team before we have submitted all these amendments to make this better, and you say who you are to give us the amendments to improve, there is the EU. This is what they wrote: “Paid, then slaughtered. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We want money from them, and they say, if you want money, let's see how successful it is, how much... You laugh. How many of them have I changed that smiled like you? All gone, all ex. Everyone smiled like that. So the EU has come to everyone's heads. Isn't that right, Zivkovic? All those who supported the EU have failed. Don't, people. Well, the EU isn't a holy letter, aman. Save some information about who we are, who we are. Help this people, for example, with the greatest expertise, not with the EU's advocacy. I don't know how much better it is for Serbia, 17 years it's being added to the EU and three thousand billion dinars, and who knows how much more stuff is open, and it's not closed yet. That's what this is about. You don't need to report. We have no obligation. We're not members. Since we're not members, we have no obligation. Associated? There are no associates. What's there? There are candidates. There's Turkey, 40 years is a candidate. And? The Turks give them information every day. They're sending them everything. And these others are sending them information, damn it. Why don't they get information from those in Pristina how many organs they've transplanted? Did you know they're organ transplant masters? All those who have transplanted organs are on the hair of Kosovo, and Thaci and these others. So don't take their footsteps.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15284	Thank you. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15285	First, let's get serious. There's no condition or anything that anyone's looking for information to have for some reason. There are expert teams from the most innovative experts you have called for from far more developed countries and with much better results. And what's the point, is that what happened so far when we couldn't get that data, we couldn't get the data, because we didn't have that expert inspection and we didn't have the law that could have prescribed it to be examined, to see how much the baby really was born. So that's the only reason we have to do everything, to get everything in line, to get the best of results. There's no other reason, and no one's making us conditional. We simply want to keep up with those who are the best, compare ourselves with them, and look at how they make it, monitor development, and what is the percentage of success, and we want it to be the best possible percentage of success in us. There, that's the only reason, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15286	Thank you. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15287	This article 59 speaks of inspection supervision, and it seems to me that when you came here in the making of this proposal, that you left this part to the administration that has little to do with the medical profession, because if it wasn't, then it wouldn't be possible for you to predict in this second position point 7, whose erasure we are proposing, where you wrote that in the conduct of the supervision of the BMPO Centre, as well as the banks, the Biomedicine Inspector has been empowered to, among other things, what we are asking to delete, you wrote - that you temporarily prohibit the conduct of the work of the Biomedical Aided Fertilation Centre, or the Bank, if not acting in accordance with the measures imposed under Article 2(6), etc. This is just impossible. This isn't the bar you're closing for not giving a fiscal bill, temporarily. Point 8. You have predicted that if someone does not meet certain conditions, of course they must meet them, but if something is stuck in that chain somewhere, then you have well predicted in point 8. to initiate the erasure procedure, or to get permission for someone who is not ready to work in accordance with the regulations. This is too sensitive for an inspector to order temporary closure. What happens if, say, the incubator contains reproductive cells and embryos? What he's saying is, we're closing temporarily, turn everything off, you can't work. It can't be said during surgery – it's not clean this surgical hall, it's not clean instruments, we're half-stopping the temporary operation of the man on the table. It's simply impossible for these medical reasons. What happens if this temporary work happens, or banning work, in progress, as it stands here in the amendment, when the stimulations of patients and their health may be compromised unless an aspiration of the egg cell is done, i.e. If she doesn't continue her treatment? How will it continue if a solution to the temporary ban is made? Minister Lonchar, please accept this amendment in order to make sense. Point 8 is quite enough for you to solve the problem of those who need to withdraw a permanent work permit, because it is impossible to withdraw temporary work permits here. The health of a woman being treated is at stake, the survival of reproductive material is at stake, and this is simply not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15288	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15289	Because of the citizens and the public, just for the record, that's what's been taken care of. It doesn't have to be the only reason, some center can close for any other reason. The obligation of each centre is to have a contract with another centre, under the same conditions that in any of these cases, whether it or any other, would take over all the material and continue the process. In any case, there is no delay in the process and those who are already going into the process and who are working there. So there's no danger of it, not because of it, but because of anything else. So, under conditions, there has to be a contract with another similar clinic that can take over at any time that other clinic with the next one.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15290	Thank you. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Bačevac. Does anyone want a word? Branka Stamenkovic, according to this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15291	Thank you. Here, colleagues of Bačevac are no longer here, but it turns out that by submitting this amendment he supported what I was talking about both in the debate and in principle. He said earlier that out of the nine amendments he submitted, he was seven legislators, i.e. The government accepted. You could have accepted this amendment as an eighth. By the way, this amendment requires that the currently envisaged solution be made for regular inspections to be carried out once every two years and to be carried out once every year. I think there's a lot of reasons for the inspection to be tightened by changing this law, by changing the way this area is arranged. First of all, in the current law of this activity, it was not possible to deal with private practice. This version of the law allows private practice to deal with this activity. In the previous version of the law, all institutions involved in this activity had to renew their license every five years. In the new version of the law, this permit is given permanently, indefinitely. So, if we're liberalizing doing this work, then we need to sharpen inspection surveillance. We can't leave inspection surveillance once every two years. Yes, the minister explained here on Friday that no one can even get permission to deal with this unless he has previously met certain conditions. I believe the conditions are very firm, very well prescribed. I'm only sorry that I can't see them, because they're prescribed by a sublegal act, so it's all at the level of faith and trust, but since this isn't a politically controversial area, it's one area that all citizens need, I believe we all have a general interest in the first place. But I'm worried about that, too. One institution may at the moment of granting permission to have all the conditions met and permission to receive, but the conditions change. The legislator himself says this is an area with very progressive development. I expect these conditions to change all the time. The minister said that one reason some things are prescribed by a sublegal act is because conditions change quickly and the sublegal act is changed faster than the law that must go to the Assembly. If we are already expecting such a rapid change of conditions, and we are issuing the permit permanently and liberalising, we are introducing an incredibly large number of new operators on the market to deal with this activity, i.e. So-called private practice, for which I must mention, in the Health Protection Act, the roof law governing the area of health, in Article 56(6), is, in fact, forbidden to do this kind of work. There's talk of organ transplants, but this is related and it's quite possible to connect that area. So, if we're making a precedent now and we're going against what the health care bill says, I think we need to be very, very careful, and we need to tighten inspection. It doesn't have to be the way I suggested it, and I suggested it be once a year regular, but let it be in the way that fellow MP Muammer Bačevac suggested, and he suggested it be once a year, but it is the difference in his and my proposal, because my proposal comes from the ranks of the opposition, and his proposal comes from the ranks of the ruling majority. In that sense, I appeal once again to accept the proposal, i.e. to accept the amendment of colleagues of Bačevac on the strengthening of regular inspection supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15292	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I thought I'd consider accepting Mr. Bačevac's amendment, but I realized that every suspicion inspectors come and check what's going on. I thought I'd accept that, but after such a generous and picturesque explanation, I decided to give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15294	The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Representatives Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic together submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuricic together submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Miroslava Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15295	Thank you. Article 60 regulates the powers of inspectors and the SRS to submit an amendment, in particular, to the position of the 4th of this proposal of the biomedical assisted fertilisation law, which states that the inspector has the right to, in order to prevent the possible concealment of evidence, take away the items, as well as medical documentation and other records kept in accordance with the law, subject to the obligation to issue a certificate of temporary confiscation. We are indeed, and in the amendment, saying that we have no objection to the inspector being available to see the documentation, but what we are, above all, submitting this amendment is because of the withdrawal of documents, materials or these items, because we believe that confiscation of documentation would endanger the treatment of patients whose treatment is ongoing, because without full insight into medical documentation... We believe the doctor must have proper insight into the out-of-body fertilization procedure. This amendment considers that no documentation should be taken that this abuse can be prevented by photocopying the documents or by taking pictures of the objects themselves, means no confiscation. This word here should be deleted. It means that the paperwork is copied and left to the institution for the treatment of patients. In the very explanation of not accepting the amendment, you say that it is vaguely and inexplicably defined. I really don't know what's vague and inaccurately defined by my argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15296	Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Bacevic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15297	Thank you, Chairman. The way we've come up with this amendment shows that in fact the Dverry and how responsibly they approach this thing, that we've been thinking about everything that applies to our citizens. So we predicted that if the inspector during the surveillance determines shortcomings that do not directly affect the quality and safety of the centre's work, he could allow a certain period, a brief, for example, to remove these shortcomings. We believe that the proposed changes fully fulfil the purpose of criminal punishment, as well as the principle of celery, but we still give the possibility that these centres can be maintained in as many working capacity as possible. In light of why our amendment was rejected, we have received an explanation that the infringement procedure must be initiated without entering into the gravity of the consequences. I just think that there's room to meet the centers and the banks, but I really believe our minister understands the essential reasons why we had to pass this law. I disagree with some colleagues who said that NATO bombing and direct consequences for Serbian citizens were not discussed here. So, the minister himself said in the opening statement that the sterileness of our citizens, above all, is happening as a direct consequence of NATO bombing bombs with impoverished uranium. For this reason, I think that you will have further understanding in your work and that in these subsequent acts, which will be passed, all of what we may not have found appropriate to bring today into change, however it will be as it should be done, because it is not your job to address NATO and seek compensation for everything that has been done to us, but in this sphere and how you can make a contribution, and I hope that the Serbian Government will do this in the interests of its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15298	National MPs Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic submitted to the 65th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 65 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister if he accepts the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15299	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15300	Sustained. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanovic, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic together submitted to the 66th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarian MPs of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 67 of the amendment. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15301	Thank you. I won't take much time. Just another point in favour of not being able to treat any violations in the work of the center in the same way. We have suggested that we behave a little easier when it comes to the following items – unless the centre appoints a person in charge of the operation of BMPO, it does not run medical documentation, it does not supply data. These are still some things that we can understand and support to make as many of these centers as possible, so that as many citizens as possible can use this service. When it comes to whether or not to comply with the directive from the European Union, I would only make one more contribution. So, when asked whether the sources of European Union law mentioned above were translated into Serbian, the answer is – no. When asked who the consultants were in the making of the rules and who gave their opinion on compliance, the European Commission alone is mentioned. So if there were Serbian experts and calls for good practices from Serbia, they are not listed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15302	The 67th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking the Minister to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15303	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15304	The Minister accepts the amendment. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Veroljub Stevanović, Dusan Petrovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs and the Committee on Health and Family to the Transit Medicine Act. You've received reports from the competent committees and the government's opinion. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Goran Jesic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Article 2 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 45, 46, 47, 48 and 52, title above Article 9, 22, 23, 24, 30, 31, 32, 32, and 33, titled ‘V and Chapter VI’, the amendment was submitted by the National Parliament of Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15305	Thank you, Madam President. My idea of submitting this amendment was next. In fact, and in my address, I was talking about this transfusion law treating blood and blood components, not blood products. The minister explained that blood products or blood products will be treated in another law. Also, I got an explanation that it would be so. It's a shame that it wasn't done parallelly, because yet blood products use blood as basic raw materials and I can only say that I hope that this law that's very important is also important that blood or plasma and components are not thrown away and that it also raises productivity and opens up some new jobs by producing albumin, globulins and other things, so that it will be accessed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15306	The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15307	Dear Ministers and Associates, this is one of those rare members that discusses the distribution of blood and blood components, and I will only refer to my colleague, Dr Sandu Raskovic Ivić, and I will remind you that during the debate we had in principle I did not get answers to any questions, so I will just look back on that part. I was talking about the fact that there are no words in this law, unfortunately, about how and whether in the country of Serbia they produce exactly medicines and which exactly... Excuse me, can I die in the O.R.? In that debate, I was informed that some of the data that we provided was flat-rate data. However, the only data we have encountered and encountered during the preparation for this law, related specifically to this topic, is the origin of the Association of Voluntary Blood Givers. The law says, namely their reports, that Serbia spends around 30m euros annually on importing these drugs. They also assume that the construction of a national fractionation centre would cost about five to 30m euros. I'd like to take a look at that and explain to us if such a claim stands and what is currently going on with the fractionation centre and is it planned to build a national fractionation centre? Another thing I also didn't get an answer from the European Union is that the Republic of Serbia received a 5.5m-euro donation from the European Union, and that was even during your previous mandate, so it's not just about this mandate, and it was just meant for transfusion medicine. But with that donation, you don't know what happened today, but there's no money. If we remember, during the exposé, the prime minister practically accused us of the MPs here, which is that the Ministry of Health has disappeared, that is, out of the health budget somewhere around one billion euros, so I guess that 5.5 million are somewhere in that figure. Let's at least figure out where that money went?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15308	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15309	Let me start with that last one, the 5.5 million. It's the 2003 Sofreko Project, 2004, which you think has nothing to do with any of what you're talking about. That's one thing. The other thing is, you keep mixing blood products and derivatives. This bill has been passed for this reason to make all that remains blood and blood derivatives, to make the most of and to make medicines that can be made out of that material. What's being made right now, it's in the Transfusion Office, and it's albumin. There's nothing else to do. But, and it's in insufficient amount, because we didn't have a review, we didn't have a unique information system to know where and how much blood and blood plasma there is, how much will be left untapped, when the deadline expires, because it's a limited duration, that we can pull it back, we didn't have a plan, and that was why we didn't have a bigger and better production, and then we'd have this domestic product much cheaper and we wouldn't have to import it and buy it from others, because it would be much more expensive. This is one of the reasons why this bill was accessed. That's the point. And you're going to do that francing. The condition of everything to change – you have to change the law, to make progress, to simply have a review of where your blood is, where you have plasma and to have a plan of work. Blood meds have nothing to do with this, it's the drug law. Don't mix that stuff up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15310	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. You have a minute and 31.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15311	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, a very important law, besides the one we've been working on, is this law. There is no greater concern about the profession, because I have consulted my colleagues on this topic in Nis and Belgrade to prepare the discussion on these two laws, and they have no major objections. What I'm trying to say is, I don't want to go through social networks and see in public that someone who needs to operate is looking for two blood donors to do the surgery. It's in the 21st century unimaginable for me as a doctor, as a surgeon, for someone to fight for life and have to provide two blood donors. So if this law allows it, you have to sanction any transfusion service in Serbia that says -- you have to find two blood donors to operate on you. It's a scandal over scandals, but it happens. I retweeted yesterday for one intervention and one child. We can't let that happen anymore. What I would also like - is that more is happening in Serbia that this most expensive, most humane liquid that can be, is given unverified. In many centers, my Nis, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Novi Sad have all the necessary appliances. I have information that many services don't do blood work, but that they give whole blood when the patient isn't just receiving a missing component, but is receiving all the blood components. So this is a precious liquid that needs to be checked and kept safe from confusion. So, here, I don't want to talk anymore. This is another law that I personally and the DS Group supports.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15312	You've wasted your time. I've let you have another 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15313	What I would end up as a question to be or not to be... Just one more question - is it more regular transfusion or transfusion...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15314	Thank you. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15315	Am I entitled to these five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15317	Then I'll do it together. First thing in principle, it won't be long, otherwise I don't have much time for it. So, of course this is an important law. Of course this is an important area. That's what we all agree on. Probably every one of us, either him or someone close to him, was in a position to need blood. We are both blood donors on the one hand and on the other, it is important that the area is arranged in the best possible way. This is the 21st century and there are many legal, but also technological-medical mechanisms for this area to be settled in the best possible way and not to open any black stories about itself that there are everywhere to be clear. But a good law will lead to the prevention of such a phenomenon in Serbia today. This law is on the trail of the previous one, which I said you received a compliment from my Health Resistant Committee, not as if it were made by the ruling party, but as if it were made by someone who knows how to do their job. With a few amendments, there are a lot of language errors here, it's accepted except for one that I'm going to point to again, but there are several essentials. All these amendments, as you have seen, have not a political but a professional aspect. Obviously, I didn't write them, but someone who understood the area was very clear. The goal is to prevent, repeat, this abuse, that possibility of abuse. The minister has won in the past days, months, gods and years from a man named Dragan Trbojevic, otherwise he is a member of my party, a technician at the Institute of Transfusionology, or as he is called, in Belgrade, at the Holy Sava. He pointed to the illegal and dangerous behaviour of the centre's director, Bogdanovic Gradimir, who did a lot of damage. There's a whole lab here. I don't want to talk about it in detail. It would be good for the health department to get to know each other. It mentions the threat of four tons of blood plasma, reduced production of albumin, debts of several hundred million euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15318	Ambassador, hand it over to the minister. Ambassador, would you be so kind as to hand it over to the minister and then...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15319	... etc., etc. I'm done with that. No, of course a parliamentary question will be asked. I'm just saying that Dragan Trbojevic, who made this known, won the dispute in court because he was illegally removed by that director after he got the status of alarmer. As for the amendment to Article 5, which is now on the agenda. The amendment is that in the draft law on transfusion medicine in Article 5 after the first position, a second position is added – it is mandatory to finance the units of blood, direct financing, and the price of processing of that unit of blood must be unique. In the explanation given by the Government, it is said that my amendment is not accepted for the reason in Article 38. The draft law on transfusion medicine has already been defined that the methodology for determining the cost of blood processing and blood components is prescribed by the Government on the proposal of the Minister in charge of health affairs. It's okay, but it's not a good answer to my amendment. This means that if we stick to what is written in Article 38, then it can happen, by some methodology, that the price of processing that unit of blood doesn't have to be unique. This would only nail that part, if the price had to be unique otherwise we have, if not, as we agree, we have a huge opportunity for various abuses, maritefetlucas and such things. So, the details of the methodology, everything else, of course, should be prescribed by the Government through that manual, but I think that this section that's not about medicine, but about law, it needs to be in the law, and that will give the law another quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15320	Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15321	Let me get this straight. In theory, however, the price must be unique, especially because of abuse and everything. There's no dilemma, there's no story. That nobody can mention, or anything, to make a difference between that. There must be strictest rules to avoid any abuse. The inspection has already come out on the case. The results are expected.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15322	Ambassador Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot accept this amendment, and my colleague almost broke his tongue. Apparently, he didn't read the amendment well, if he wrote it at all. This turning back is another additional reason, the unquestioned reason why this amendment should not be accepted, and the main thing is that this is contained in Article 38, as I read in the government's explanation. I agree with the government that this is not to be accepted, and this is an opportunity for these fine-mannered, decent ones to show it in the act of how well-behaved and competent they really are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15324	Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15325	While we're here, let's stay. I'm just saying, if what I said is true and you've confirmed that the price has to be unique, then the place is within the law. That's an argument more. It can be interpreted as part of the methodology. As regards Article 6(3), the proposal is an amendment to change and read – in order to ensure the availability of blood and blood components for all health institutions, the number of authorised transfusiological institutions is determined by the plan of a network of health institutions brought by the Government within a year, in accordance with the law determining health care. The answer is that it is not accepted for the reason it is Article 51. The draft law has already proposed a deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts for the implementation of this law, and it is proposed that existing sublegislative acts, etc., apply until the adoption of these sublegislative acts. I think the point here is that I'm cutting the deadline by this amendment, because according to your proposal, the law should start to apply on 1 January 2019. This would start six months earlier, and I think a year is quite enough. This is not some new area in medicine, nor in people's lives, that a year is quite enough time for adequate sublegal acts to be passed that would create a complete possibility for the law to be applied properly. I think that the deadline is longer than a year for any legislative proposal, and in particular a legislative proposal which, I repeat, is not a miracle unseen, and it is important for every man that that deadline can be shortened and by adopting my amendment, the Government would take on one more responsibility, and that would be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15326	Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15327	It is a serious process that of the 44 centers, which remain the bank, to move to four, with the Kragujevac centre still missing. Not only is it a serious process, but it costs enormously. We just didn't want to do something quick and not get into trouble, get into a vacuum. There's already a story about people losing their jobs in those hospitals and everything. I have to confirm that it's absolutely not true. It's only now that those people in those hospitals are moving to do their job. So far, they've only worked, they've listed numbers, they've checked the numbers... From now on, they have time and start to deal with patients and watch how they react and do it. It's not that simple, and this isn't the thing to run with. That's the only reason. God forbid we've done it a long time ago, but we don't want to be insecure, that we overestimated ourselves that we've brought some deadlines that we may not be able to comply with, because there's really a lot of work here, because all of this has to be tied to one center and it's working. Here is a very important thing – planning. Planning and gathering that you have to do in a minimum of a year, and then bring it down to the daily, weekly level. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15328	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15329	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Your Honor, I'd just have to point to something for a little while. As regards a concrete amendment submitted to Article 6 of this Bill, which is before us, the Government has given its opinion that the amendment should not be accepted. Again, other members of this proposal have been regulated by what is persistently required by the amendments, so in this case they are members of 51st and 55th. These members shall contain provisions relating to the deadline for the adoption of sub-legislative acts, as well as the time limit for the application of the law, so that there is no need to change a member in terms of setting a deadline for the adoption of a plan of a network of health institutions. With that in mind, I don't think the amendment should be accepted. I would just point out something else, I have no objection, but mostly all the amendments, i.e. most of the amendments submitted by Zoran Zivkovic, are already regulated by some of the other members of this bill, so I don't think, in that sense, that the legal text should be burdened or confused by accepting such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15330	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Goran Jesic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Goran Jesic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Goran Ćirić, Goran Jesic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic submitted the 9 amendments together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of Articles 13, 21 and 52, the title above Articles 40 and 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Bačevac. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Goran Jesic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Goran Ćirić, Goran Jesic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister to plead whether he accepts this amendment from the Committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15331	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15332	The Minister accepts the amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Muamer Bacevac. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does he want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15333	The change is a lexic nature, but you didn't read the text well after the amendment. Therefore, it is said - the authorised institution and the hospital blood banks must establish an accurate, efficient and verified procedure for the withdrawal of blood and blood components related to adverse events, i.e. reactions, etc., is not accepted because the proposed solution is identical to the proposed amendment. Take the law, in law, that article reads to you, when we get to the component of writing – a compliment, which is not the same, look well – the compliment is written to you in your bill. So if you don't adopt my amendment, then you're going to have to explain what these are, here, look. Well-meaning, nothing real, accept my responsibility. It can't be corrected, you refused the amendment I gave it, so you can't correct it, like you accepted those seven amendments where the cuts, one letter or fall, then you should accept this, too, without any danger of something bad happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15334	Excuse me, MP, it says - the components, and the mistake is to "establish" rather than "establish".
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15335	Here, let me show you where it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15336	I believe we have different texts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15337	So, it says, "commentate."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15338	In my book, the components write, and instead of “set up, ” it says, “establish. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15339	I wrote this text here on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15340	It says here an error in typing your amendment, I apologize, but it's a clean correction. Is the amendment accepted or not accepted? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Goran Ćirić, Goran Jesic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vučković, Tomislav Žigmanov, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15341	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, on behalf of myself and on behalf of my MP group, I have given this amendment, indeed, to bonafide, in order to raise the motivation of giving. In my address about this law, I was already talking about the danger of giving a little bit, since it is changing the way it will be organised. Here I sought certain incentives, i.e. privileges, so that our society as a whole and our state of Serbia would show respect for people who make up a very important job for society, which is to give blood. This amendment has been rejected, although I have asked for little, and it is only to give certain incentives for these people and to sanction privates who do not adhere to the fact that a man under the Labour Act gets two days off to give blood. It is explained in the explanation that the amendment refuses, that giving is based on volunteering, on anonymity, and that there must be no discrimination against others. I believe that these people, voluntary blood donors, are doing a very important, noble job for our society, in some way directly saving human lives and that certain small incentives and privileges that we would give them would be some kind of positive discrimination. Since positive discrimination in our society is about much less significant things, I think it's a shame that this amendment has been rejected and I ask you to think about it, because I don't think it's going to be well received by the Association of Givers that they're putting themselves at the level of everyone else. For me and for them, and for many of my colleagues and citizens of Serbia, these people should indeed be respected in a certain way and given privileges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15342	The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15343	First of all, I want to say that these people, not that they're being discriminated against, are our heroes, and once again, I want to thank all blood donors personally, because without them, they would have no purpose in this law or anything else. What we could do was make sure those people don't pay for the participation, that's done. What we can't do, what we talked about, is that they have priority on some waiting lists or on some things. We can't do that for the simple reason, we have to go for urgency. That's the only reason. We are in the mood for everything else and we can talk and, of course, have an advantage in all other situations as voluntary donors. We can't do this, because I think you understand me, we can't get a donor in front of someone who's more urgent. So that's just the reason. Once again, I thank all the voluntary donors.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15344	The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister if he accepts the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15346	The amendment accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 29th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15347	Let me just get you back to article 35. I also have amendments to Article 35, to Article 38.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15348	This is Article 29.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15349	Twenty-nine. I'm sorry, I heard 39.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15350	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15351	The amendment concerns, as you said, Article 35, where it is said to add a new attitude to the 3rd, which is to say – the competent doctor of medicine must not propagate the deliberate blood supply and that so far the positions of 3rd and 4th become positions 4th and 5th. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that blood and blood components are voluntary, or based on the principle of volunteering, non-payment and anonymity, so the purpose of giving blood and blood components is not subject to this law. I agree, but we are witnesses every day that when you go to the doctor he tells you – bring blood, he tells you sometimes and publicly – join the appeal to provide blood for some operation, which is contrary to the law, and therefore I suggest that the law explicitly states that the competent doctor, these are not transfusiologists, but they are doctors who use blood, that they cannot participate, because this creates a bad picture of doctors, of medical institutions, of the health of this country, and therefore of the whole country. So I urge you to accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15352	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15353	This law is also passed for that reason, so it doesn't come to this and not appeal, but you only have one situation where you have to take care of it. We can't predict what kind of situation can happen, God forbid, some accident or anything, when we have to approach, to appeal to people to give blood. The other thing is, we have deficit blood groups, so I don't get into the details right now, but so far we've had a problem with not having a record, that we had blood that stood somewhere, and somewhere it should have, where we had a split and... Every hospital she had for herself, she wasn't in a single center, and that's what we want to avoid, and I don't think we're going to need to have that problem, and that's the problem that someone's going to go. Of course, that's our primary goal, that no one is appealing to anyone and that's no excuse for me to appeal to all the health workers, that it is when all the excuses of the excuse are exhausted – no blood, no blood, no blood, no blood, no blood. So that's our primary goal. But when we ask someone for something, we want to do what's right for us to do, not to have a thousand excuses tomorrow why they're doing it, so they're not provided with this, so they didn't know there was blood there or there wasn't blood there, and first we want to do our part of the job... Then we'll sanction it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15354	Ambassador Risticevic asked for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the amendment not be accepted for the reason this propaganda is very problematic. You know, if it's a rare blood group that's missing, if a doctor is calling for this group to be missing, whether it's considered a propagation or not, then, if we adopt this amendment, it would cause some problems that would put some patients' lives in danger, so let's say that if someone kicks a passenger out of the train just because he didn't know English, so if he needs medical help and if it's a rare blood group, then the doctor is forced to look for such a blood group if he doesn't have it at his disposal. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15356	Who exactly? (Zoran Zivkovic: Minister. ) The minister only provided an explanation. (Zoran Zivkovic: I am not well understood. No, no. You're well understood. Article 35 is added a new bet: ‘It must not propagate the deliberate blood supply’. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15357	You can't fight life. So here's my chance for a previous amendment. If there's an elemental accident or an accident, then it doesn't have to do appeal. Apple, a bit of an awkward word. It should not be done by a competent doctor, but it should be done either by the ministry or by another state institution in case there is a great need for large amounts of blood. Here this was a protection against getting into a personal relationship with a doctor if it's above those medical ones, between doctors and patients, so go find out, so for someone to find blood, someone won't, and that's a very bad thing. That was the reason I tried to explain it. Article 38 is a cut-off. I still think it's enough for a year to pass a sublegal act that should work out this law and make it applicable, otherwise we'll be waiting very long. So, in 2019, who lives, who dies by then. Of course, if I didn't tell you this faster introduction of the law into an operational function, it would lead to a life-saving system waiting for a patient, not a patient waiting for blood.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15358	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15359	President-in-Office, I believe that the amendment should be rejected for the simple reason that it is meaningless, incomplete and excessive, because the government has already set in its proposal a time in which this law should be applied. The amendment promoter did not take into account all the actions to be carried out by 01.01.2019, until the government proposed that the law enter into force, which is not one element. It is a matter of when a work organisation that needs to establish a completely different equipment, space and the adoption of sublegal acts that the government has already dealt with in Articles 51 and 55. I have the impression that the amendment promoter in all its amendments really suggested something like he hadn't read the law in general or possibly because of just saying something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15360	Members Goran Ćirić, Goran Jesic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the members of the 39th and 43rd amendments were submitted by the People's MP Dr Muamer Bačevac. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 44th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15361	Of the 13 amendments I proposed to these two draft laws, six were accepted. It was obvious that one of these, linguistically, sevenths was as pure as tears, but there was no will. By accepting at least three of the other six that remained, this law would have been significantly improved, but there was no way I could quote one senior MP -- this would have been victory, 50% of the amendments had already been passed, and it would have been over 70% if you had adopted everything that was to be adopted, but the fight continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-04-25-0.u15362	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine on 25 April 2017 starting at 17.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Now we can use our regular break. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that there are 136 MPs in the hall and that we have conditions for voting, for further work. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote – Proposal for a law on biomedically assisted fertilisation, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted six MPs for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against, no one with abstentions, is one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, the abstentioned—one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against, no one with abstentions, is one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group – National Movement of Serbia – submitted the title above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Miroslava Stankovic-Djuric together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Dubravko Bojic and 11 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 47th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted to the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. A member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. Together, Verica Radeta, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic submitted to the 51st amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. National MPs Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic submitted together to the 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. National MPs Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic submitted together to the 58th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. A member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by the MP DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. On Article 59, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Muamer Bacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted a parliamentary group to the 59th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. The 60th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group: I am putting the amendments to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. The 60th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milovan Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. The Parliament's group Dveri submitted to the 61st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. A member of the 65th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. The Social Democratic Party – The People's Movement of Serbia – submitted a parliamentary group to the 66th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. A member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The parliamentary group DS submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. Since we have completed our decision on the amendments, I am putting to the vote the Bill on Biomedical Aided Insemination, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes a bill on biomedically assisted insemination. I put the draft law on transfusion medicine to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions – nine. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A member of the 1st amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 45, 46, 47, 48 and 52, title above art. 9, 22, 23, 24, 30, 31, 32 and 33, the name of Chapter V and Chapter VI of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. No amendment accepted. A member of the 7th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. A member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. A member of the 9th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 19th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milorad Mijatovic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting the draft law on transfusion medicine to the vote, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one, abstentioned – eight, voted five MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on transfusion medicine. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Thank you.
