ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20980	I think you've injured a member of 86th and 87th. The Rules of Procedure and that you deliberately interrupted the meeting at 20:45 last night to listen to the latest lies of the Grimm brothers. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20981	I'm taking away your parliamentary group for two minutes and the right to explain one amendment. I thank you for helping me, based on primitives. National MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 47th amendment... (Alexandra Jerkov: The Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning for shouting. Alexander Jerkov's emissaries have been warned of shouting. National MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic submitted to the 47th amendment... (Radoslav Milojičić: According to the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning for shouting. Otherwise, the breach of the Rules of Procedure can be done directly, not yesterday night. The amendment was brought together by MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go, MP. (Alexandra Jerkov: How can we draw your attention to the breach of the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 47. A proposal for this law that I asked to delete the said article relating to the establishment of expert commissions. I simply believe, and my experience and long-term education tells me that I am right, that such expert commissions should not exist. We have a huge number of other institutions and other administrations dealing with these affairs, councils, institutions, centres, various commissions, school administrations and these expert commissions we do not need. The government's reasoning for refusing this amendment is not good for me, because it is said here that it will not affect the budget. My opinion is quite the opposite. Here, first of all, you don't talk about what commissions they're talking about and what business they're supposed to have. Personally, I think these commissions will have, first of all, a function to launder money from the budget, in order to shift money from one item to another. It may not affect the budget increase, but surely the redistribution of money from the budget will. These commissions are unnecessary even if this government also considers the minister necessary, and we know that unfortunately there are a large number of technological surpluses in all schools and if there is a need for these commissions, then Mr. Minister, from the ranks of those who have become technological surpluses on any basis, there are certainly people who will be engaged and do these jobs if there is a need for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20983	Thank you. What? Radoslav Milojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20984	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advertising Article 108. – the president of the National Assembly takes care of the session, and if you could explain why he is a colleague of Jerkov and why I received a warning? We've been holding the Rules of Procedure for five minutes, and you don't want to see us, we said, President, the Rules of Procedure and you gave us warnings. How else can we distract you, keep our Rules of Procedures every day for 15 minutes when you deliberately don't want to look at us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20985	Is that it? Because you have misused the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as an experienced MP, you know, I am convinced that you know, and you deliberately abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, because it can be done directly, not at 8:00 yesterday. Since you don't have time for Parliament, so sit at home, then in the morning, the esteemed gathering and the citizens of Serbia harass the injuries of the Rules of Procedures that have been invented. (Radoslav Milojic: That is not why you gave me the warning. ) The word has Alexander Jerkov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20986	Thank you. Paragraph 8 of Article 103, I am sorry, in the case of the position of the 7th member – the President of the National Assembly is obliged to use the time used by the MP by misusing the right of the position of the 1st member to subtract from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda, if his parliamentary group has remaining time to search. You thought that fellow Milojic abused the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since our parliamentary group has no more time left to search, you have decided to take away our right to explain the amendments, which is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. So you can't take two days away from our right to explain the amendments, nor can you forbid us to explain the amendments. The only thing the Rules of Procedure lets you do is take two minutes away from the time of the parliamentary group that we don't have. So, there is no point here that unless the parliamentary group has time to search the remaining one, that the president may decide and take away the parliamentary group's right to explain the amendments, and you have done so. What amendment will we not be able to explain, can you now tell us which amendment and how will you solve which amendment we will not be able to explain now?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20987	Is that it? That's your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Look, first of all, let me explain to you that we're in the debate, first of all. There's a debate in principle, there's an amendment. There's a total time. Read how much time there is in the amendments, past the parliamentary group, past the authorised ones. (Alexandra Jerkov: What amendment will we not explain? So you don't have time to explain the amendments at all. There, the last one to be in a minute from now on 218 minutes. We made a deal, or if you want someone else? (Saša Radulovic: A, no, no. ) (Alexandra Jerkov: No, no. Let's move on. Is that the strongest you can say? Okay. He has submitted to Article 47 of the amendment... Don't harass Serbian citizens, I got complaints yesterday about spending their money on nonsense. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 47th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to make a first contribution to calming the situation, I won't explain, I'll save time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20989	Thank you. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Bozidar Delic. Here you go. Natasa Jovanovic has her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20990	Mr. Minister, you understand that the SRS wants all these institutions and their role to be suspended and that the crucial role of the evaluation and quality of education has a ministry. I have a few questions for you, and I think this is a great opportunity for you to answer and look back at the rule of this yellow regime that brought the Education Strategy to you in 2012 until 2020. So, do you intend to change that, because there are lots of hollow and empty stories, deception, lies, traveling kindergarten, traveling teacher, traveling nursery. You can't understand and understand, I remember that because in that term we were here in the congregation, what are all these items that have nothing to do with real life. The second question, since it was started then, I think that in 2013, the evaluation of primary and secondary schools is, how is it possible, because you are from the almost minister of education or education, that no schools in Serbia from the National Educational Council and from the institution that evaluates it have received a score of five? You know what they said? They said it was impossible, that the score from one to four, and imagine 40 per cent of the high school in Serbia was rated two, some even negative. The primary schools got a mahogany of three. In order for it to be even and to have all the same conditions in Serbia, you will agree, in Crno Trava it is impossible for you to have viewing departments, it is possible if you provide them with everything, or at the Shop, or what Mrs Radeta mentioned to Kursumlia, because they do not have such equipment and such conditions as Belgrade schools, some schools in my Kragujevac, etc. So, a lot of people don't have a gym, kids don't have security, they don't have their own backyards, they don't have computer equipment. Now, only Mr. Minister that you as Mladen Sarcevic are fighting this Vujovic and Ana Brnabic when it comes to budgeting for 2018, so to say – we do not want NGOs, we want money for education and for schools so that children have it all. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20991	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20992	I'll be brief. Let me tell you that you're most right. You're wrong about something, because the strategy isn't such a useless document, on the contrary, it has fundamentally important good things, and I said in the days when we had that debate that only action plans were very well done, but the strongest earning up to 26% of the feasibility. But we have a lot of other important questions here. Extra evaluation is a good tool, compared to the whole region that doesn't have one, but the tool itself is badly done, and the only evaluation of four as the greatest, and the fact that you grade schools that haven't had a chance to settle, but to cut grades, it's useless. We have made new teams these days, people who will deal with a much better approach to external evaluation, where both schools and teacher competences will be involved, not just teaching, so that many more people will be involved. So we're looking to fix that tool, and a lot of things you've noticed yourself, we certainly ignore it, because we don't think it should stand there. It is fundamentally important that all schools in Serbia, it is not a phrase, have the same conditions, and we, for example, have almost provided that with computers. So I'm going to go to villages and smaller places, so the electronic diary starts with KIM, with various other parts of Serbia, so we're giving them the same chances, the same rights. But we will adapt the strategy, indeed, to all the things they aim at quality education of students in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20993	The amendment, which was added to Article 47a after article 47a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. In the same text, MPs Vesna Marjanovic and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic submitted a name above the members and members of the 48th amendment. Do you want to start with this amendment, or how? (Alexandera Jerkov: How do you think we begin? Do you want two minutes to be taken away from you immediately? I don't care. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20994	I took my word for it, so it's obvious I want to talk about this amendment. What's the problem with this the way you suggested, is what's the problem with this whole law. You, Mr. Sarcevic, are giving yourself the powers to overcome here and what you should have as authority and what you can express as authority and what any minister may belong to. The problem with this article is that you've already started doing this, even though under the current law that currently applies you didn't have the authority to do this. It's that you can replace the directors of the Bureau and the Council, in case they don't act the way you expect them to. All the members of the Educational Committee know that a few months ago you sent us a request to discharge the president of the National Educational Council, against whom the DS has always been and when you chose it, we said that it was a shame for such a man to be at the head of the National Educational Council. He was the best in the world to you back then. Then, the moment he started to complain, the moment the National Educational Council gave its opinion that your laws were not good, the ones you're proposing now, you, although it wasn't your jurisdiction at the time, asked the Educational Board to replace the president of the National Educational Council. In what he gave as an explanation, in response to your numerous accusations and which he delivered to the Assembly committee, we see that he simply disobeyed you and that the National Educational Council did not listen to you. That's why you asked for his shift, and now you're asking to do it with directors from all the institutions and councils in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20995	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20996	Thank you. In view of the concept that these are advised bodies, and that the ministry performs its administrative function, to exercise power, then this is quite logical, but it is said in the text – the minister can propose, and certainly if it is a blockade of the work of the Council, and how he can propose and the sea, because here we spoke in a member concerning NPS, that bodies such as advice, seductions, the ministry, are not opportunized, they have to cooperate, because they must... the quality that comes out of this. We've given very reasonable explanations where the brakes were and it's not us who made the decision, the ministry tells us, it's the committee of the assembly. That's where everybody voted. Really, if I could have influenced all of you, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20997	Parliamentarians Petar Jojic, Tomislav LJubenović and Zoran Krasic submitted together to the 48th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20998	We have suggested that this member be removed from the bill, because it is excess, because this article is practically regulated by what is already regulated. Mr. Minister, there's a Government Act, there's a Ministry Act, there's a State Administration Act. Now I can tell you why we were in principle against these special organizations, because we wanted all of this to be placed in the ministry. Why? The Minister is responsible for the work of the department's authorities, and for the work of special organizations such as these of your institutions, the Director, Deputy Director or Assistants is responsible. And it's pretty much, in a way, disfellowshipped minister. And all of your internal relations are already regulated. They've already been regulated. I need to distract you. And now that this article is looked at in 48 how this relationship has been defined, so whether it turns from minister to centre, or from centre to minister, it must not be legally regulated by that internal communication so much as small details, if, within that time limit, it is, in particular, written by - within the deadline set by the minister. Especially that's unacceptable. Because that kind of discretion and disposition of the minister must not exist in the regulations. This member has to be kicked out of this law, because there is no specificity why it would be regulated in a different way than the law, let's say, about the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u20999	The title above the member and article of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21000	By saving time, I won't explain this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21001	Thank you. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21002	I will explain this amendment very briefly, given that there is a little more than 340 minutes left for the amendment debate, not 218 as the chairman said just before, but 348 minutes is still a lot. So, by amendment to Article 48, we have proposed to delete from the original version of this article the provisions that allow the Minister of Education to set up their own commissions to carry out tasks from the competences of national expert educational councils and institutions, which are professional educational bodies that should create and lead education policy in Serbia, while the ministry should only oversee this educational policy and take care of its legality. We have proposed to delete the provisions that the minister has the authority to establish, if he is not satisfied with the outcome of the work of expert commissions of national educational bodies and institutions, his own commission which would produce the desired outcome, the outcome of which is the extent of the executive authority, so the Ministry and the Government, because it is this possibility that the Minister will fully overrun the work of national professional educational bodies by means of a decision was also the subject of the biggest objections that the National Educational Council had on the text of the proposed Law on the basis of the education system and specifically on the provisions of Article 48 of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21003	Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic and Nenad Konstantinovic together submitted to the 48th amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21004	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, therefore, this is one of the members that allows the minister to hold on to a short chain and the National Educational Council and institutions, which you yourself said were the most important bodies in the education system. The institutions are important bodies and institutions have the opportunity and the obligation to give professional opinions on certain issues. The problem we see in this article is that it is the minister who gives guidance and asks how to do a certain opinion, and if he is not satisfied with that opinion or if that opinion is not done within a short time, which is also given by the minister, then it is said – and by 30 days at the latest, the minister can form a commission or can make a decision without that opinion at all. If the director of the office fails to meet the short term and request given to him by the minister, the minister can propose his shift. We think it's wrong, because it points to the situation that the minister will thus be able to abuse his function, to give a consciously short term to the office, so that he can replace the director. That is why we have proposed by amendment that the deadline within which he leads and advises not be shorter than three months, which is one reasonable time for serious analysis and for serious opinion-making, so that they have enough time to do so. Of course, if they don't, you can suggest a possible shift or a director's resolution. But don't go on purpose short notices, so they can't do it, so that you can replace them and that you can decide without professional opinion of the Bureau or of the Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21005	Members Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted to the 48th amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21006	We have submitted two amendments to this article and you have heard why we think this member should be deleted, and in case you do not accept it, then a correction must be made in this last position, where you wrote that "the minister can propose to the government". This probably has nothing to do with you, Minister, but with your services. It should be kept in mind that the law must never stand for anything to do. If he can do something, it means he doesn't have to, and that can't be a legal provision. The law says - either it is, or it isn't. Because whenever he can, that means possible abuse, etc. It would really be good if you accepted this amendment, not to leave any doubt about the intention provided for in this article and this position of the last member. You saw yesterday, Mrs Gojkovic was right when she intervened according to those amendments that were on the agenda, and there were them, Mrs Gojkovic said about 200, there were more than 300, and I, in the course of the debate before that, warned of such amendments by some MPs from the ruling coalition and it happened to be spent a lot of time. Instead of seriously discussing these things, we discussed something that wasn't actually amendments, but it happened because someone wasn't doing their job. Perhaps, Mrs Gojkovic, you do not know that the committees voted for amendments in the set, did not allow one amendment at a time. If it were, maybe the board would notice what's going on. So we really have to accept every part of our responsibility and that these things don't happen. In that sense, intervention to this amendment is. I think I've got a second yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21007	And my suggestion to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is that each amendment is previously looked at and that this approach should not happen if something was not in accordance with the laws and that something was not in line with the Rules of Procedure which is our Labour Constitution. It's a general remark, and something like this can't happen anymore. The amendment, which is added after article 48a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21008	I'll give up my argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21009	Thank you. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Momcilo Mandic and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21010	Yes, we suggested deleting the four last positions of this member. Otherwise, this article 49 speaks about ensuring the quality of the work of the institution and it is not good what is written in these four attitudes that we have foreseen for erasure. Indeed, I somehow get the impression that this is written how little Perica imagines the work of the ministry. We're going to have a similar law on civil servants in the debate these days, but now I'm not going to waste my time, but how is it possible that someone could self-inflicted? You know, you can't really judge yourself. It can be in theory, but it's almost impossible. You have an evaluation problem with those who don't judge themselves. You have a problem grading when it comes to school boards, etc. That's what we talked about in principle. It really needs to establish a strict hierarchy, to determine what anyone should do and must do with this law, Minister, really create conditions to improve the system of education and education in schools, which is below the critical point, and I guess that's also clear to you when it comes to teachers who have no right in their schools at their jobs. Any student can yell at a teacher. Even if the teacher gets a slap. Even here, adequate measures have not been proposed to improve both education and education through this vision and thus, and we cannot do so unless teachers have adequate protection of the ministry. Of course, with the ministry's obligation to insist on their best work as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21011	Thank you. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 49. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21012	Thank you. Here, as MPs have said earlier, talk about the evaluation of schools. The self-evaluation that we have no problem with, however, in the 7th and 8th opinions is about the external evaluation of the work of the institution, and you are proposing, Mr. Sarčević, something that has long been overcome decades ago and abandoned in a modern world where we are seen in education, because it is said that the Education and Education Office participates in the external evaluation of the quality of the work of the institution through the evaluation of students' achievements in final and graduation exams. Mr. Sarčević, do you know that there is a school in downtown Belgrade or Novi Sad where more than 80% of parents have college education, and in some municipalities in Serbia there are schools where more than 80% of parents don't even have a primary school or have only a primary school completed? Maybe it's a better school that's managed to teach someone how to read and write. Maybe it's a better teacher who taught someone, well, literally to sign, to read some text, to do some little accounting surgery, than that teacher who took a kid who had all the predisposition to go well on the test, and now we say, without any further analysis, this school where the students went well on the test. As Duško Radovic said – Give me a good kid, so you can see how good a parent I am. You're doing the same thing with teachers right now. I really believe it's possible that a better teacher is someone who's learned to read and write, because there's no additional criteria here, except for their success in the final exams, and that's simply not enough to evaluate the school without any further criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21013	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 49th amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21014	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Ministers, I see that several parliamentary groups have a similar amendment to this article, and I am aware that there have been over 1,000 amendments and that in the short term the service has not been able to dedicate itself to each amendment and therefore we have an explanation why our amendments are being rejected, similarly - the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution is allegedly not complete. Yesterday we discussed that the directors of the Institute or the president of the National Educational Council should have a college and have, I say, a high-school four-year college, a master's degree, and that's where we agree, but you couldn't accept it to enter the law. The reason is that the laws are sent by emergency procedure and obviously there is not enough time for us to write amendments, nor for you to read these amendments. So I ask you to consider this amendment, which is similar to that of your colleague Jerkov, where we ask that a new position be entered, which says – when the institution is evaluated based on student achievement, always takes into account the difference between expected and obtained student results. They're different kids, different schools. Some teachers will make a huge effort and will succeed from children who have fewer predispositions, due to their parents' educational profile, to advance, to make greater progress than perhaps children in downtown Belgrade, who have greater opportunities to advance in knowledge. I ask you to consider this, because in this way I think that we will be unfair to all those who in some areas who are more lagging behind in particular efforts and show results, they will not be able to do this, as you predicted, to be well rated.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21015	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21016	I think you're right, but there's definitely something else missing as an explanation for this article. I used self-evaluation in my practice, teachers when they learn, they do it well. Of course self-valuation must coincide with external evaluation. It's only worth it then. On the other hand, there's one half sentence missing here. He says, "or the need indicated." So one of the tools is the final exam. We didn't want to elaborate in a member so much, you know that an independent graduation is being introduced, that it's working on a small independent graduation as an external evaluation. Of course, you're just doing teams of people who are going to measure exactly what you're saying, meaning, the expected achievement of students and their basic abilities, the management of his profile, portfolios, files, whatever you want, from when he's being tested for going to school to getting out of school. This will show the category – the projected assessment, because it is all a tool, but it takes a lot of time to do so in this article. So this is what special teams of people are going to do. These days, the commissions are making up for it. Here we have good examples of pedagogical practice in Serbia itself, so I think that both the profession here and how it has to be asked, and here in the article it has to be said much more. He's on the lookout, so he's got him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21017	Vladimir Djuric submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, added after article 49, was submitted by Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 50th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21018	I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21019	Thank you. The 50th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21020	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have failed to respond to something the minister we agree on, because the president doesn't want to give a word to anyone in the opposition. As far as this amendment is concerned, we added that funds to implement the development plan are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the local self-government unit in accordance with the law. These members have more and our intention is to force the state law to provide enough funding in the budget for development plans, to allow the school to have some autonomy, to establish that it has autonomy, that it can propose development plans, and that it is financed from the budget. That's consistent with what you were talking about, but now it's a matter of whether we can formalize it in law. Believe me, I still have the impression that you have good intentions, but you're not aware that tomorrow you may not be in that place and that you won't be able to accomplish this. And what we need, what we talked about, doesn't require education to depend on day-to-day politics. That is why it should stand in law and no matter how the ministers change and who the government is, who the opposition is. It's within the law and it has to be ensured. Why do we care about education? Because education is a priority and there must be some continuity in improving education. Let us at least fix one thing in the law without leaving everything at the good will of the minister, so whoever has no good will, will fail generations and generations of children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21021	The amendment, which is added after article 50, was submitted by Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21022	For saving my life, I'm giving up my temper.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21023	Thank you. Vladimir Djuric submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJupka Mihajlovska has submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 51st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21024	Thank you. This is a member who is talking about views that check quality improvements and modernising educational and training work, introducing new content of education and education programmes, organisational newspapers or funding methods. Now, again on these tours, you'll never guess, the minister's decision is made. Mr. Sarcevic, you have a lot of obligations, a lot of jurisdiction, a lot of authority. I know you said here you thought you could compare yourself to Dossy Obradovic. There will be someone behind you who will not be such capacity as you and Dositej Obradovic, who will not be able to wash it all away. Indeed, damage will be done, for this entire law rests on that assumption of the infallibility of a minister who for some reason controls the entire education system. After that Higher Education Act, you make decisions about schools where college professors have practice, everything that happens in our education, according to these laws you've offered us, you decide. Why don't you let these facilities you've listed do it after, after, advise you? You don't have to decide everything. The minister doesn't have to keep everything under control. I believe you have better things to do in our education system, which, you say, you want to change, than to decide absolutely everything, now we also see views. You won't get there, you don't have the capacity, everything, and if you have yourself, there'll be someone behind you who won't have it, and there'll be damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21025	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21026	I think you could read on what the minister's role is here, as a purely formal category, and who's following and who's worth it, etc. It's just that I'm going to have to do it all or any other minister. But you may not know that from pedagogical practice, there are 27-year-old tours and there has never been an evaluation of all this, and there has never been any knowledge of the result of that visit. So someone has to determine when it's due, sign if the tour has worked, whether it's being played into total practice, etc. That, of course, the minister only works very formally, informed of many services. There's a very detailed description of who's doing which procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21027	National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 51a after article 51a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 52nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21028	I'll save you some more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21029	Thank you. The MPs of the DVERI group submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. The 52nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21030	Thank you. So here's what I was just talking about. It is done that the institution, founded by the Republic of Serbia, the AP, unit of local self-government, can be a teaching base of a higher school institution, a practice room in accordance with the law. I myself had classes in Serbian language and literature methods that I held in a high school in Novi Sad, in the context of the course, since all professorial courses have a certain practice. And now, Mr. Minister, you're showing up again as the person who determines what schools can be gyms. Why don't you let a high school facility alone with a school where she wants her students to practice, make some kind of deal, set up a practice? What does that have to do with the minister? What does the minister have to do with whether the Serbian Language and Literature Department in Novi Sad will send its Serbian language students to Isidora Sekulic High School or the John Jovanovic Zmaj High School? What does that have to do with you? Why do you want to know? Why don't you let colleges and schools do it on their own? I really don't see why you're getting involved in this right now. I'm really interested, I'm not asking rhetorically, why is there a need for a minister to determine where students from an x, an ipsylon college will go to practice, which school, and what school will they train tomorrow to be professors? You'd better get involved in regulating that those who teach high school didn't have teaching days, it's a much bigger problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21031	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21032	It's a very simple solution here. Facultys very often do not know which institutions have a certain space and calling. He can't practice someone who's not better at his job. They can do it themselves, but you haven’t read the sentence “based on a public competition. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21033	The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21034	So, I'm continuing the debate according to the amendment tabled by my colleague Jerkov. So, Article 52. The Law on the Foundations of the Education System prescribes training centres in which students practice on study programmes for the education of teachers, educators and professional associates. Of course, as in all other legal provisions, it is here to standardise the practice that students, future teachers, teachers, educators will perform in our norms is the crucial and final word of the minister and the signature of the minister. So it is true that there is a public competition that will establish a list of those schools in which this practice will take place, but it is also true that this list is ultimately established and prescribed by the minister and not only that, therefore, not only determines what schools it will be, but it writes literally that the conditions for the work of the gym are laid down by the minister. Closer terms, so, Minister, it's impossible for you to be so close all over the place. It's impossible. It's physically impossible, because if you're so close and so close that you're going to prescribe all the conditions of everything, then it's going to happen to you that you're going to miss how these competent higher education institutions and institutions in charge of higher education can't dispute an apparent plagiarized doctorate, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21035	The amendment, which is added to Article 52a after article 52a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 53rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21036	I'll save time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21037	Thank you. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. The amendment, added after article 53a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21038	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. I call on Saša Radulovic to come to the hall, because she seriously insults the Parliament's dignity. He's been putting up with all these amendments, and here he is sitting in the hallway, and that's unserious, and that's what citizens need to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21039	Thank you. I can't hurt the Rules of Procedure, because I can't make MPs go into the O.R. if they don't want to. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 54th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21040	Saving time, saving money, so it stays for school. I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21041	Thank you. The amendment, which is added to article 54 after article 54, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić, Sreto Perić and Zoran Krasic together submitted the title above the members and the article 55th amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21042	In order to save and efficient the work of the National Assembly, we have proposed that this member be deleted. Why delete it? Because, Minister, you're giving this member, which my Nišli would say, without local self-government, that they form some centers for the professional training of teachers. Don't do that. Don't open the space for them. Education is in the good part a state obligation, the state takes responsibility for all aspects of education policy. Don't let local self-government and others get involved in the education system, make those centers. And we have too many of those centers, and we have too many of those so-called so-called centers. Parastate bodies that interfere in the process of education, make some of their workshops, exercises, playrooms, something to issue certificates, certificates, everything and everything. They're the most common gigs for NGOs, imaginary experts and those people who think it's the height of knowledge that they know which synonym to describe a foreign word. We don't need our education to be burdened with these things. Delete this immediately from the law, because it will be misused by local self-government units, and that would not be good for the education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21043	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 55th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21044	Before I give up my argument, I will suggest that, when we change the Rules of Procedure, amendments to MPs who are not present in the hall will not be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21045	Thank you. The 55th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. The amendment, which is added to Article 55a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 56th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21046	I'll save time and money.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21047	National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 56th amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 56a after article 56a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 57th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21048	I'll save time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21049	Thank you. The amendment, which is added to Article 57a after article 57a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 58. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21050	Since my political rival ran out, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21051	Thank you. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The amendment, which is added to Article 58a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 59th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21052	Looks like my political opponent is introducing some new bankruptcy, giving up my argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21053	The 59th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The amendment, which is added after article 59, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21054	Since my political opponent obviously plays tambourine somewhere, I'm giving up my argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21055	Thank you. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 60th amendment. They're not here. And not to vote on such amendments when someone isn't interested. Parliamentarians Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mičić and Sreto Peric submitted to the 60th amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21056	First, let me say that this member is very important, relating to the plans and programmes of teaching and learning primary and secondary education and education. We, in particular, have proposed a change in attitude 6 and asked for the programmes of secondary vocational education and education and dual education, as part of secondary vocational education and education, to be organised closer to a special law. This is true of you, but the three-year secondary education programme, as well as the dual seas, contains at least 25% of general and 70% of professional education. That the curricula and the programme of four years of professional and artistic education must contain at least 35% of the general and 60% of the professional, or artistic education. You said this matter would be regulated by a special law, but now the question is, what we told you in the principle debate. This law without sublegal acts, without those other laws that will regulate a particular matter, does not mean anything, because at this point, when it is voted tomorrow or when it is published in the "Official Messenger" it will be completely unusable. Somehow, we think it was better if you'd made a whole package of proposals and we could discuss it, and we could compare whether you'd really put this into that law or not. That's why we're preventively saying it was supposed to be in article 60, but let's take your word for it that it's going to be in some next law, you say in October. Okay, but it would really be good if these system laws were passed at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21057	Thank you. The amendment, which is added after article 60, by a new member of the 60th, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21058	Members who have proposed amendments and who are not present, that amendments are not discussed and that they are not voted on, I will propose that on the first time we amend the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21059	Thank you. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. The 61st Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The amendment, which is added after article 61, by a new member of 61a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21060	Thank you. My political opponent keeps holding hands, I don't have a political opponent, I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21061	Parliamentarians Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic submitted together to the 62th amendment. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21062	I'm asking the Minister for a little attention, since I think he's been denied this amendment. The original text states in the second position of Article 62. – annual work plan of the institution is adopted in accordance with the school calendar, development plan and preschool, school and educational programme until 15 September. So it's brought in when the school year starts. This means that something is already starting, going on, and only then are we making rules, that is, a plan, that is, the objectives of that education. In our amendment, this changes by 15 September – no later than 30 days from the day of the school year. So, we're giving another longer deadline, but that deadline should be such that he brings the right work plan because the experience we've been warned about from many educational institutions in Serbia is that rarely, by the time he reaches 15, he brings up a work plan. It would be logical to bring it before the beginning, before the first of September, but to assume that then schools don't work, although I don't know why educational workers wouldn't work, as of August 1st, those in charge of making a plan. If we respect that tradition, which already exists, we should at least give some reasonable deadline that would be appropriate. Second, what's the penalty if someone doesn't do it in the last 15 days? There's no punishment. So it's one form that's completely pointless if you don't give a reasonable deadline. The worst is the government's argument of why the amendment is rejected, it says – it is not accepted because it is not in line with the needs of the institution and its dynamic work. What needs? What facilities and what dynamics? Is there a dynamic of work that has been established by some legal calendar? It's not. Therefore, I ask that we adopt this amendment in our best interest and give it the opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21063	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21064	I've known school practice for four decades, and this has been like this since I've known, and I think my colleagues would have figured this out differently if anything had changed. Everyone else knows that professors come back around August 15th, that there is a draft of the school's work programme as early as June, that the school's schedule is being set up, that the worksheets are entering, that there are a lot of technological surpluses, and that all of this must somehow fit in. The school starts with finished, 99% of the directors signed it another 30, 31 August or earlier. The punishment is certainly great, because not adopting a school's work programme is such a great punishment and the obligation of a director who can be resolved. He's in serious damage to duty. (Zoran Zivkovic: Did that happen? I don't know in the past year, and I haven't explored it before. I think it's a matter of honor, that no director of a local self-government would ever allow himself this. In training for the directors who work and who have to raise themselves to their competencies, it is important to know and organise magazines, create an annual work programme and a number of other things. Rock, September 15th is simply a deadline for school not to have to die, to formally multiply and send, nothing else. Everything else is done on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21065	The 62nd Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The amendment, which is added after article 62, by a new member of 62a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21066	Thank you. The amendment is about free textbooks we've been talking about for two days. In defense against free textbooks, the SNS has spent all its time. We have these two minutes per amendment to talk about it. Free textbooks should be the right of every child, that free textbooks have all the children of our diaspora that have gone to the countries of North America, to EU countries, but also to Russia. Well, if the government and the ruling majority already don't like to get textbooks in North America and the EU, they could follow Russia and Putin, listen to it, and accept its system where, when children show up at school, when their parents bring them a set of textbooks, they inherit it from generation to generation. If the textbook is destroyed, then the parents have to pay for it. Then the question arises – can these free textbooks for 560,000 pupils in primary schools and for 260,000 students in high schools be paid? The answer is yes. It is only 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, slightly more than 20m euros a year, which is half a subsidy of over 40m euros, received by Er Serbia every year. For some years, they also received 70m euros. It's about a tenth of the money given to foreign investors to open these jobs for cheap labour. In the meantime, our children, along with their parents, are fleeing the country. This is a very important measure that would best help parenting and help nationality, because here we predict that preschool education is also paid for all children, without parental participation. Also, all the textbooks in elementary and high school. So this can be paid. The truth is, there's no money in the budget, it's spent on things that don't need citizens. In Belgrade, the price of textbooks is lower than the price of masts and fountains. So, a lot of stories, a lot of distractions, it's time for action, give free textbooks to all the children in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21067	Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21068	Thank you. This is like coming in and out of that commercial, or writing an amendment and buying a tambourine, hitting something seas, it's like a previous show to me. My amendment, all my amendments with commas, are methodologically correct, and here's my colleague Krasic certainly knows that as soon as he throws it to me, and if we were to adopt, nothing important but grammatically, we wouldn't change the law. So the law would be enforceable. If the amendments of the previous colleague were adopted, the law would not be like anything, i.e. it would be like that parliamentary group. Speaking of free textbooks, if the joint criminal enterprise consisted of bankruptcy managers and the former regime's party did not grab the predatory privatisation of the sale of assets by 6.7 billion and fired and illustrated 400,000 workers, they would, through contributions and through consumption, bring 432m euros and into funds, into contributions, make another billion and 200 000 euros, and if pensioners spent, they would receive additional funding and those textbooks could be free of charge. If they sold a little less than 21 million grams of gold, worth 700m euros, the joint criminal enterprise would allow us today to really share computers with free students, etc. Em, they've mutilated, um, now they're moaning at free textbooks that they drank and ate. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. ) (Tatjana Macura: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21069	Of course not. Tatiana Macura, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21070	I point out the breach of Rule 158 of Article 1 of the Rules of Procedure. - the search in particular is carried out on the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and on the amendments proposed to the introduction of new provisions. The previous speaker spoke of everything, except for a score that should improve the draft law on the basics of education and education. Therefore, in addition to violating Article 158(1), Article 106(1) was also violated by speaking beyond the agenda. Today's topic on the agenda is the debate on the basics of education and education, the contribution of MPs is to add a decimal to Article 63 of this Law, and we have not heard a word about this score. I would ask you to listen more carefully and to warn the MPs who do not stick to the topic on the agenda. Also, I'd like to make a statement in the voting day about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21071	Thank you. Sure. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. He's not here. Member of the 63rd Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Okay, she was taken from her word. The amendment, which added a new member of 63a, was jointly submitted by MPs Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Here you go, it's Alexander Jerkov's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21072	Thank you. Article 63 speaks of textbooks. Now we have proposed Article 63a, which obliges the state to provide textbooks and manuals and teaching materials to all students, regardless of their material status. We believe, the minister says it is not the place in this law. We don't have a problem with that if you promise us here it'll be in the Bookbooks Act, if you find that member a place in the Bookbooks Act. Indeed, your textbooks are something that is terribly difficult for your parents to endure. We have heard in the past few days, we have not devoted all our efforts to this, since we believe that there are much, much greater problems in our education than that. This is a problem for parents, and what you do in education is a problem for both parents and children and generations to come. We believe that the government would have to commit itself and make a decision that without discrimination, without any humiliation for all children the textbooks would be free of charge. There's something else, you insist so much that there are differences between children, including your famous uniforms, that you should undo some social differences among children. It's very scary, Minister, that other kids might make fun of you, that you get free textbooks, which they don't get, that there's some evidence of how poor you are. We believe that the right to free textbooks should have all children, not just socially endangered children, because it is another terrible way to make a difference between them. But if you promise us it'll be in the Bookbooks Act, then we have no problem transferring it to that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21073	The word is Ljubiša Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21074	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is evident that at this point we are unable to comply with this request from a colleague, but it surprises me at all and that they have made one such proposal. We have a broken record that constantly revolves with this music, and I'm surprised that this MP group also gave the proposal, since she had the opportunity, when she was in power, to give free textbooks and all the funds to all the residents, or students in Serbia, and she didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21075	The amendment, which added a new member of 63a after Article 63a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21076	Thank you. A story about free textbooks, the state of Serbia can get textbooks for all children. Russia is getting textbooks for all children, so if you're not listening, look at how Russia does it. This cost is not great, it is 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget for all children to receive free textbooks. That is less than half of the subsidy received by Er Serbia. In Belgrade, the amount is lower than the price of the mast and the price of the fountain. So, to say that there's no money for this, it really doesn't stand. Parents are watching this, and they need to know that the average household incomes are 57,000 dinars. It's not enough to buy textbooks, and a set of textbooks for a child costs between ten and 17 thousand dinars. If you have a second and third child, you can practically see it's an impossible mission. People are in charge, they have loans to buy textbooks. Serbia is unique in the world by that. This needs to be lifted. This could be paid. Apparently, the ruling majority doesn't want to do that. It is much more important for them to give subsidies that create cheap jobs, and that our children flee the country. So, talking about how money doesn't have is not true. Money has enough to pay for this. Also, the amendment provides that transport should be free of charge for all children from home to school and back, and in rural areas they cannot bear it, it should be the obligation of the Republic of Serbia's budget to drive children to school, so the whole part is settled for parents. If we really want to fight the fall of birth, if we want to encourage parenting in Serbia, the best way to do it is to make it possible for people, families who want to have children, to create conditions for economic, financial conditions to have and raise children. This is best done by the state taking over costs, as is done in a regulated world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21077	Ambassador Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 64th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is this big, it's like this. What I learned from Professor Pavicevic, who teaches at the Faculty of Political Sciences and who has been doing it here for two or three years, is that the amendment added one comma. In order to cut short the time, I have to tell the former minister against the economy, that out of the empty glass that they emptied, water can not be drunk, nor can water be poured into that cup, and from the economic activity of one day, which they destroyed, one day we will gain conditions when we raise it, that textbooks and computers are really free. Thank you. (Tatjana Macura: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21079	According to the Rules of Procedure, Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21080	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to point to a violation of Article 158(1). – The search is carried out in particular on the members to which the amendments have been submitted and on the amendments proposed to the introduction of new provisions. In a previous presentation by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, who has submitted about 400 amendments, adding to every single point in the same article that he has taken over from the draft law on the foundations of education and education, we have not heard a word. Among other things, he spoke of everything other than the added score, so I would ask you, since you have now taken up the presidency's seat, to pay attention to whether MP Marijan Rističević is talking about the added score or whether, in the old tradition, he is not sticking to the subject. Also, I'd like to ask you to make a statement in the voting day on the matter of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21081	Thanks for the suggestion. Of course, I'll take care of it. The word is Maja Gojkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21082	Thank you, Chairman. I call for an infringement of Article 148, and regarding Article 162, of course, it refers to the last amendment of Members of Parliament that we had the opportunity to listen to earlier. Please take a look at what Article 48 means, I think it's attitude 6 that speaks of Rule 158 of Rule 5 and 6 of this Rules of Procedure, as well as Rule 162. You were not allowed, Chairman, to allow an MP who tried to explain his amendment, and there was no point in having anything to do with a member of the law who wanted to correct it, you should not have allowed him to address this respected home at all. Let me just remind you that at this point he was talking about the need for free distribution of textbooks for primary and secondary education, but we have, because of the submission of such an amendment and all the several hundred amendments, quoted Parliament Tanja Macuru, who has spoken widely to you about hurting the Rules of Procedure and addressed the submission of several hundred amendments by Marijana Risticevic, so I am giving myself the freedom to do the same, spent an extremely large amount of money. At an annual level of 80 million dinars, we spend only on television broadcasts, so we can easily calculate how much it cost yesterday and yesterday and today, to the nonsense of these amendments. I have to say that only yesterday did we spend 580,000 dinars, that's half a million dinars for the use of our own vehicles, that we don't have any more data on how much electricity was spent, water. I expect that by the end of the day, we will receive the amount of funds for the overtime of employees in this House, who had to sit here because of these amendments, which, if adopted, and MPs should not only refuse, would create a mess out of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21083	Thank you. The amendment, which is added after article 64, by a new member of 64, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21084	Thank you. The amendment talks about free textbooks, talks about free transportation for all children, talks about preschool education, which is also a child's right and whose costs should be covered by the budget. Any senseless attacks on us really won't stop us from talking about what's important to all parents. Parents are watching this, they understand that the state is able to pay all of this, that the cost of the textbook is 0.23% of the budget, that it is less than half of the subsidy received by "Er Serbia", that it is less than, say, in Belgrade than the price of the mast and the price of the fountain, so that any discussions we are hearing now, where practically from this time of discussion, which is eaten in TV broadcasts, is the most taken by SNS, it is very easy to see. Therefore, the main theme is textbooks. They can be free, like in Russia, for example. So that system that's there should be applied here. This law is for that. These are the basics of education. The textbooks can be obtained for all children. The cost is not that big and it is just over 20m euros for all children in all primary and secondary schools. All these citizens watching is trying to get off the subject. We won't let that happen. I will continue to talk about the amendment, and the amendment speaks of finally becoming a free education in Serbia, such as free, really free, including textbooks, for all our children who have fled to the diaspora with their parents due to their very bad lives in Serbia, fled to North America, to EU countries, but also to Russia, imagine Botswana as well. The best way to fight the fall of Natalie, the best way to help parenting is to create economic conditions that parents, that families who want to have children can have children. It's done like this. We've had enough of this circus. You've been talking about robbery for five years, no one's been processed. With words to work, gentlemen. Free student textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21085	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21086	Thank you very much. It's about this time a member of 47th and it's about the Committee on the Rights of the Child. I am convinced that it is the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and that this is my big mistake, that we should have an ambush on the proposal of these two laws and that we are considering amendments to Sasa Radulovic for human reasons, in order to make a decision and conclude that we should protect the children from the MPs Sasa Radulovic and his spending of the right to useless amendments which cannot be corrected by the bill. Here, according to this calculation, several million dinars, if we calculate 80 million dinars for these television broadcasts in which we only listen to Sasa Radulovic proposing amendments that cannot be implemented, which are not in accordance with the law, which are not then in accordance with the Constitution, nor with the Rules of Procedure, nor with Article 48, and regarding Article 162, we could buy them a portion of these textbooks and share them, even if in the municipality of Belgrade where I live I am an MP who spends the money of Serbian citizens and children's money. So I ask the committees to do their job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to protect the children from the MPs of Sasa Radulovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21087	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Yeah. Thank you. The word is Tatjana Macur, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21088	I want to point to a breach of Article 106(1). – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The previous speaker, so Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, I don't know if you noticed, reported on the basis of a breach by the Rules of Procedure, however, did not say a single word about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you, the chairman, to listen more carefully to the presentations of representatives of the ruling coalition to notice that when they answer the word, they do not actually talk about what they have come to say. Also, I would like to point out the violation of Rule 103.1 of the Rules of Procedure. - The MP shall have the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he is not in conformity with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, and immediately after the injury done. So, once again, Maja Gojkovic appeared on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but unfortunately she did not say a single word. She talked about untrue and unverified information, about how much it costs the work of the National Assembly, although every day when we ambush it costs so much and simply at one, let me say, the primal way deceives the public about who has a greater contribution to making the laws better in order to improve the lives of all citizens. So what the National Assembly is doing, which is to pass laws, we are just doing what is in the description of our work, which is – we are proposing amendments to make the laws better. I also want to take the vote vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21089	Thank you. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. The word is Maja Gojkovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21090	Thank you. Parliament will declare this, perhaps it has hurt the Rules of Procedure. A member of 104 this time. The MP took advantage of her right to replication and misused the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you wouldn't let her do it. I don't know, maybe she doesn't get it. However, I was talking about Article 47, but they're being held there around 27, 106, 107, and it's a mantra. It's not a problem. Unverified data from the President of Parliament – a very interesting finding. For the sake of the public, this is the data from the service where they pulled the exact data from what it cost yesterday. After all, MP Sasa Radulovic recently called on the Ministry of Labour to send an inspection here because we worked a few days after 18 hours. Therefore, if he is sending an inspection, then he must make peace with the fact that we too will require that labour inspectors come to protect the employees of Sasa Radulovic and his treatment of them, irresponsible treatment. So, article 47 was talking about the work of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and that's what I was talking about. If the MPs don't understand me, they understand me as chairman of who it was addressed to. Just you. Thank you very much. And I won't ask for a vote because it's not your fault for the MP's actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21091	Thank you. That's exactly what this is all about. I wanted a letter to listen to the end, she didn't understand Marijan Rističević, and I understand him perfectly, so, but we did listen to her. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21092	Honorable Vice President, I've never reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I think the situation has now led to absurdity. He's hurt, you hurt a member of 103 because you're running this session. That article 103 states that the MP can point to an injury committed by the president of parliament, immediately after the injury has been done. We have a situation where the President of Parliament runs a session, and then he comes down, and he says, "injuring the Rules of Procedure," I guess, to himself. If the President of Parliament feels that you cannot lead this session, he should not allow you to hold a session. Then the president can run the session on his own. And the point is that the SNS doesn't have time, so the President of Parliament is reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure so that something can answer the MP who explains his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21093	It has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't have time either, so you pick up two minutes. Let's move on. (Tatjana Macura: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, you are shouting again, Marijan Risticevic. (Tatjana Macura: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go. Article 27. - Look who's running the session and taking care of the work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the risk of being spit on again, pinched, I'll try to talk about my amendment. Here's the scream and the roar, I can't quite figure it out. But this amendment is about other forms of vocational education. They're just so much of an education. You file one of those same amendments, and my parrot taught him and he didn't. You walk the streets, make maps of the mind, black magic. They're making maps of the mind, but it seems to be some kind of technological mistake for their leader. It's this other form of education, I'm talking about other forms of education, that's the amendment. They made their leader a map of the mind and made a mistake and now he has a map without a mind. And that's where he hopes to help. Well, then the man suggests, I don't know how many hundreds of identical amendments my parrots, geese, etc., and here he is, I'm calling him to memorize to say it, what my geese showed this morning, and if he knows how to say his entire amendment by heart, here I am going to resign, and if he kept repeating it 50 times and made us three million dinars yesterday. I have the right, unplanned expenses, I have the right to propose amendments, but you're witnessing that yesterday so many times I've given up that I've saved three million and he's listed it and it looks like bankrupt managers, and it looks like that technological mistake, when you want to make a map of the mind, you make a map for him without a mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21095	Here you go. The word has Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21096	I don't know if you've been paying attention to the chairman, if you've heard the presentation of the previous speaker. Namely, he injured Article 106 and Section 1, or you injured Article 106. 1, by allowing the speaker to speak beyond the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. In fact, MP Marijan Risticevic should have explained the amendment in which the government of the Republic of Serbia added one point in the same law. We haven't heard a single word about the added score in a proposal that would improve the bill on the basics of education and education, but we've heard about everything else, and even one method of easier learning that might not be worse if our children in primary and secondary schools had the opportunity to learn. I would ask you to listen only more carefully to the presentation of MPs coming from the ranks of the ruling coalition in order to remain on the subject on the agenda today. Also, I want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21097	I call upon you to make your contribution, be in session and vote for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because those who remain will not do so. The amendment, which added a new member of 65a after 65a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic, who will surely respect the suggestion of a member of his parliamentary group and say something about a concrete amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21098	We of these free textbooks will not give up, the amendment speaks of them. We repeat, because every repeat is an opportunity for the ruling majority to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21099	She told Tatjana Macura to interrupt, because you're not talking about the text of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21100	The amendment speaks of free textbooks that should practically be obtained for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21101	Tatjana Macura, please warn the MP sitting in front of you to talk about the text of the amendment and to listen to you. (Tatyana Macura: Just listen carefully to what he says.) I listen carefully for three and a half days.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21102	So...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21103	Please warn him and help me conduct the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21104	Do you want to deny freedom of speech to the MPs, it seems. Citizens see this as an attempt...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21105	It's all freedom of speech today. Sure, just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21106	Citizens see this as an attempt to prevent free textbooks. So, trying to stop the story of free textbooks, they get a chance to adopt this amendment every time. I will, of course, withdraw all the other amendments before we get there.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21107	All right, I'm asking Tatjan Macura to keep his arms wide and let the next MP say whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21108	Continuing, most of the time as citizens can see the spending of SNS and the money they're talking about, if you look at statistics, you'll understand. So, getting free textbooks for all the kids. This is an attempt to get off the subject so we don't talk about it. No offense, no attempts at planting will stop us. The textbooks can be obtained. Citizens should know that they are available to children for use in Russia. So let's apply that principle in Serbia. Our children in the diaspora get textbooks. We should do the same for young people who are their peers in Serbia, to create conditions for parents to have children. Fifty-seven thousand dinars are the average household income. The textbooks cost between ten and seventeen thousand dinars. Parents know best, and both grandparents know that...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21109	I give you a warning about the insubordination of parliament and the presentation of amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21110	So I can't discuss my amendment that's been accepted. An amendment that was accepted by and entered the agenda, and you make a warning about what I'm saying about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21111	Don't make it up, it's not accepted. I say, I've given you a third warning, which means I'm taking away your right to speak at this session for contempt of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21112	It's the highlight of insolence. Top of the line. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21113	Hold on, I'm not leaving you for 20 days because you don't respect parliament. (Sasa Radulovic: Something like this has not happened in history. ) Thus, we will save a lot of money for the citizens of Serbia and then we will have something for the textbooks. Thank you very much. You're the only one who insults me, so it's not a problem. Your fine voters are delighted with your behavior. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21114	Thank you. It's about the basics of the educational program. So, these basics certainly aren't maps of a variety, but I have to say that I'm going to cut my exposure short, given that the owner of the company "Timi Plus" that was here received the last payment of 800,000 dinars when she spit on me. With that, so you don't risk giving up any further explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21115	I thank you, MP. The amendment, added after 66th by a new member of 66a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic, who no longer has the right to speak. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 67 of the amendment. The word is Maria Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21116	I thank the chairman. We asked for this member to be deleted, and for the sake of the citizens, I'm going to cross. So, the basics of the pre-school education programme are brought by the minister. The plan and the programme of teaching basic education are brought by the minister. The plan and programme for the study of professional subjects is brought by the minister. The programme of specialist and master education brings the minister and so on. The Minister decides everything. Of course we asked for a member like this to be erased. In an explanation of why it is not accepted, it is said that it is not in line with the concept of the bill. Well, of course it doesn't match the concept, because the concept is that one man decides everything. In the current regime, one man understands everything and the disastrous consequences are seen. I'm terribly sorry that I'm not able to prevent the same thing from being painted at the Ministry of Education, where one man is going to decide what's going to be cooked in the kitchens in kindergarten, and where those kids are going to go on prom trips when they grow up. The consequences are inconclusive and I hope that at least the minister is aware of what responsibility he takes on himself. It's not a big deal that the citizens were looking at yesterday and it costs them 500,000, but it's terrible how they're going to suffer, because it's clear to them in the morning when they're supposed to give their kids money for lunch, they're already clear about how they've been brought into this situation and who's to blame. We now have the culprit for the future, which is, the minister of education appointed by the regime and which is not independent of the regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21117	The 67th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21118	I'll give up my argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21119	Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 67th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, this is the essence of the law and the essence of the differences in concepts that we have proposed and which have been so far and the concepts that you are proposing. You suggest that everything is brought by the minister, and we believe that it is not good and that it is not good for the minister to be the one to bring the pre-school education programme, which will bring the national framework and will bring all the programmes and curricula and for learning in primary school and for learning in high school. And when it comes to adult education and when it comes to secondary professional art education, all programmes and plans are brought by the minister. We believe that this should not be in the hands of the minister, but that these plans and programmes should be brought back to the National Educational Council, in which competent people, people from the profession, and that this jurisdiction must be returned to the National Educational Council. In that sense, we have also submitted an amendment and we think it would be useful for you to adopt this amendment, because we will have a much better quality of education than if it is decided by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21121	Vladimir Djuric submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21122	With this amendment to Article 67, we wanted to comply with the amendments that we submitted to the article. 34th and 36th because these are members who regulate the competences of the methodological educational council and of the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults who are completely deprived of their responsibilities by this legislative proposal for a law on the foundations of the education system. We asked for the amendment to regulate the adoption of a programme of education and education from the Ministries to go back to the jurisdiction of these national expert councils for the education system. We were just listening to how much the National Assembly's meetings cost, how much the work of the national councils that will exist, will have employees there, who will receive a salary for professional work to be done, and that these professional bodies will not have any jurisdiction. It is, in fact, the highest cost of general social benefit and public funding, that we have national professional bodies in charge of managing, to create a policy of education of this country, where people who will receive wages for their expertise will not have any jurisdiction. It's a cost that's monetary, it's immeasurable and would certainly allow for the financing of free textbooks, but it's a cost that's much bigger in one broad sense, it's a cost in lost opportunities and benefits that will be denied to these children with a system of education set up like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21123	Alexander Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 67th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21124	Therefore, Article 67 reads – the basics of pre-school education and education programmes, the national framework for education and education, the plans and programmes for teaching and learning basic and secondary general education and education, the plan and programme for education and teaching of general education, secondary vocational education and education, artistic education and education, the education of adults and the basic educational programme, the plan and programme for the teaching of basic adult education, the plan and programme for the teaching of vocational studies, secondary vocational education, the programme of primary and secondary education and education for members of national minorities, the programme of specialist and master education and programmes of other forms of vocational education, brings, you will never guess, Minister. Please, don't do this. Why do you dissipate the organs we choose to make such decisions? You're right when you say that our amendment is not accepted, because it doesn't fit the concept of the law. Your concept of the law is that you decide everything, that no one can do what they want, as you said in the debate in principle, but your only idea is for everyone to do what you want. So now you've brought this law of yours ways to discipline them, if by any chance they don't give opinions that you don't like. I know you're going to say it's in the right opinion, I know you're going to say it's pro-forme, but come on, if it's pro-forme, then give it up. Why do you care so much about these powers of pro-form? You think you are infallible, you think you are at the level of Obradovic's Dosite. Someone who won't be able to control it all, don't ruin generations because you have some desire to seize power and control everything that happens in education ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21125	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21126	I owe it to the public just to repeat what I've been saying here for five days, that it's a concept for the executive authority to return to power. And I don't know why the Minister of Education can't do his job, which is education? On the other hand, all others who have done so far had an obligation to work or not to work, without any responsibility. At least now you know who's responsible. Here's what you said, so you don't like it, so by the way, just so the public knows or doesn't know, in the prepared opinion of this, of this, of this and that. So is the minister of enlightenment, and at least a little "d" of that Dossite you keep mentioning, who will refuse... (Alexandra Jerkov: Well, it's not. ....... And certainly you are not something you imagine to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21127	An amendment to which a new member of 67a is added after Article 67a. MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. According to the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21128	President, I'm advertising Article 108 -- that you're the one taking care of the row at the session. I ask you to courteous the minister, for he cannot speak to one woman above all, and the other to the MPs. He's the one here. (Young Charcevic: And how then?) Minister, please don't throw it at me as I speak. If you're the Minister of Education, please have at least a little culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21129	Ambassador, speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21130	Please, President, court the minister, that he does not behave this way, because he cannot treat his colleague Jerkov, not because he cannot, because we will not allow it, and I ask you to court him not to throw it to me as well as to me as I speak. The fact that the minister's a little nervous, let him take his meds or something.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21131	Whoa, MP, please don't insult the minister. He didn't so insult the letter, he said that maybe she wasn't who she imagined she was. He answered her discussion. She knows what she said. And you've really offended the Minister on the ground floor. (Radoslav Milojic: To what, what is controversial? ( b) How? You don't understand. Please, let's move on. Here you are. There's a letter from Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21132	Thank you, President. In the tone of previous intervention and advertising of the Rules of Procedure, I believe that you have injured Article 27 and that you should take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, or to explain to the Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21133	My colleague, she can't be the same member. You've made a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21134	No, my colleague said 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21135	And he was calling for the 27th in an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21136	No, I advertise 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21137	He said 108, and he was talking about 27. Here, it's not a problem, it's important to know the content.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21138	Can I explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21139	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21140	Thank you. I wanted to react to the minister's post office yesterday because of the public, which is fine, and will only speak for a moment. I wanted to recommend that he can speak freely here for a very long time, which is why we came, and that public he cares about is also interested in hearing what the minister has to say. And he shouldn't speak for a moment, not for the public, but for the sake of us, who represent the citizens here, the MPs, and the public is of secondary importance, for which, of course, there are other means of information. But I'm asking you, President, because we've noticed that they're completely different arches when someone is and in what way they're experiencing an insult. Or an insult that is less or more groundbreaking, so the difficult words are not taken into account at all or not heard when they are sent to the MPs of the opposition, and when they are directed to the representatives of the executive authorities who are here to explain themselves, then these arches are different. So, I beg you, Minister, speaking to the Presidents of the Assembly, not to comment on the MPs, do not throw it away, no matter how difficult it is for you. We'd have the same thing to say, so sometimes we can hold back.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21141	How's it going? But the minister can only speak for two minutes, so is the Rules of Procedure, and save his time for the sake of all his time. The Rules of Procedure need to know. Thank you. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is talking about the programme, and, Mr. Martinovic, I suggest that, under this programme, money goes to buy two computers in a rural school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21143	Thank you. The amendment, which adds a new member of 68 after article 68, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. That's what we heard. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Rističević. Do you want to explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21144	I'll save time, and that'll save money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21145	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. He's not here. Members of the Devere Parliament Group submitted together to the 69th Amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21146	The Devere parliamentary group has tabled an amendment where Article 69 of Article 1 changes the word "two months" and replaces it with the words "two years". So it's absolutely pointless for the school program to be delivered for the longest two months until the start of the school year. If the school year, Minister, starts on September 1st and you bring the school program July 1st, can anyone react to any of the things that will be in the textbooks? At least you put in six months, so she can react to the expert public, to organise a public debate. This way, you and our children bring us before the final act, so that basic and secondary education textbooks can record whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21147	The amendment, which adds a new member of 69 after article 69, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 70th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21148	Saving time, saving money for education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21149	Member of the 70th Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 70 after article 70a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21150	Saving time, saving money for education.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21151	Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 71 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21152	Dear citizens, one piece of information for all people living in the diaspora, that this is one member of the law that is very scarcely written. So, there is no definition of anything in it, except that for children and students, temporarily and continuously, who stay abroad, classes in Serbian can be organised according to a special programme. So you haven't defined anything. We have proposed an amendment that says that "Serbian diplomatic and consular representation abroad are places where new schools will be opened in Serbian, according to a programme prescribed by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development". Mr. Minister, this is a useful amendment, because, as you know, the number of Serbian children abroad is increasing more and more every day, and you are in an explanation that this amendment is not accepted, saying that the Ministry of Education is not responsible for the work of diplomatic and consular offices, which we are absolutely aware of. However, citing the practice of many countries abroad, we have the opportunity to see that many countries, within their consulates and their embassies, organise teaching for their children. I will give you an example of Russia, which has a school for Russian children at its embassy in Vienna, even a religious facility. So that practice is not unknown in the world. I think this way, the Serbian diaspora and children living abroad would become even more attached to our country, to our consulates, to our embassies, which are now not being used at full capacity. That's absolutely my right to say, because I was present. There are many countries in the region, Mr. Minister, who have not hired teachers to teach children in Serbian. I will ask you a question – what happens to learning Serbian for our children in Albania? How many professors are engaged in Albania to teach our children our language? I will answer you, none. If it weren't for the Mytropolis of the Montenegrin-Primordial Ministry, if it weren't for the Serbian Orthodox Church that fills the area that's supposed to be run by the state, which should be done by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our children would be in need of the preservation of their entity. That is why this proposal is a constructive proposal, so this proposal is a proposal that can improve the position of our people abroad in the future and preserve primarily our cultural identity. The Serbian Orthodox Church and diplomatic and consular representations are the only institutions that are extremely well located, which are extremely well connected with our people and are in fact the only capacities that can be used to learn Serbian. So SPC and DKP facilities need to be exploited as much as possible. I hope, Mr. Minister, that you will give an answer to some question. You're mostly giving answers to some things that are clear and where you're absolutely familiar, but some of the questions you asked yesterday and today we didn't get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21153	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21154	Of course I'm obliged to answer and I think we're working these days to be more present at schools in Albania, so we're also signing some interstate agreements. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow is the Conference of Ministers and Ministers of the Western Balkans, we are hosts, so it will be one of the topics. On the other hand, there's already one rule that works. Wherever conditions are created, it is precisely and clearly described what and how to do to form new groups. That can be done in agreement with the Foreign Ministry. That's how it started, say, in Beijing, that's how it started in Finland, but you're certainly right that there's still a lot of places to do it. There is also an initiative on our part, there is an initiative from these countries and these citizens, so we have been paying great attention to this lately.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21155	Thank you. The amendment, which adds a new member of 71a after article 71a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the amendment of the 72nd. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21156	We'll save time, make more money for schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21157	Thank you. National MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandar Cabraja, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic submitted together to the 72nd amendment. National MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic, Sreto Peric submitted to the 72th amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21158	With this amendment, we wanted to show that we think that this law should take care of both teachers and students, to protect teachers from arrogant students and their parents, and to protect students from arrogant teachers. We therefore suggested that Article 72, paragraph 3, be added: “If the teacher does not explain the assessment when the student asks him to do so, the student shall have the right to submit an appeal to the evaluation as soon as possible. ” We think this is really something that should be in this law, but it still seems, Minister, you have a serious problem with your associates. It says here that the amendment cannot be accepted because this question has already been arranged in another member. I think it's Article 2 and I look at Article 2 in it doesn't say anything on this subject. He can't say "in another member". Well, we can't go back now, list the whole law, find this if we haven't noticed. Indeed, this relationship is unacceptable and then we talk about how much time we spend here, etc., which, of course, we don't think is a good topic for the public, first of all. We think that MPs should also speak to everyone in this place to show what their personal attitudes are, and above all, the political party they represent, and it is not good to count how much it costs. Democracy is an expensive toy, but without it, we can't and should stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21159	I agree, that's all the MPs warn us about, so they need to be returned with the same measure. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by National MP Branko Stamenovic. The Committee and the Government adopted this amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21160	In Article 82, this methodologically only divided the overall monitoring and evaluation of students and here when complaints and the need to come through solutions and exams. So it was just a purpose, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21161	Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 72nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21162	Thank you. The amendment speaks of evaluation and in one of the points of view, I think it is 7 or 8 said: "The final assessment of the case is numerical and is carried out at the end of the first or second term according to the established standards of achievement", which is fine with us, and we now suggest that the point be placed and that the next part of the sentence, which reads: "and the prescribed criteria for grading", is deleted. There is an entire school of opinions that believes that evaluation criteria actually cancel and deny teaching autonomy of teachers and that it is quite enough to give an assessment based on established standards and achievements, that these evaluation criteria are a complete surplus. The other thing, I didn't see it in the law, it's possible I was wrong, because there wasn't much time, which brings the criteria for grading. Based on what I'd say, the rest of the law, I'm somehow suggesting that it's you again, Mr. Sarcevic? It's okay, you're taking your head off. It's a good thing it's not you, but I don't see who's bringing it in. It needs to be defined in the law somehow. We can make amendments up to the moment of the vote, so that any MP who has an amendment to Article 72 can supplement and define how these criteria look, who brings them or deletes them completely, because many teachers believe that this threatens them with pedagogical autonomy and that it is only enough to prescribe this first part of the conditions, or criteria on the basis of which they give their grades.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21163	Thank you. Minister Sarcevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21164	Thank you. I don't know if I should call you respected e-mails or by the last name of Jerkov? Since you keep calling me by my last name, and then I'm gonna call you Mrs. Jerkov, let's just work this out, we're here for the fifth day. So there's this other kind of pedagogical property here, when the teacher is completely autonomous, and we're not reducing the possibility of just doing some research on the acquired knowledge and quantification of it. You know, those other pedagogical properties and motivations and so on. So no one rules except the expert body of the institution itself, and that's what they say to the pedagogical council of every institution. If we're talking about external evaluation as final, then this evaluation that teachers are doing is actually one predestined grade and they're absolutely autonomous, so that's why it doesn't say who's prescribing and so on. I absolutely think it's the domain of the very expert body of every institution. We're talking later about that part of the institution's autonomy where things like this get into that particular Corps.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21165	Thank you, Minister. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The amendment, added after article 72a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21166	We'll save time, and that'll save money.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21167	Thank you. The amendment, added after article 73, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21168	Savings are the biggest profit. We'll save it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21169	Thank you. The amendment, added after article 74, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21170	I'll save it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21171	Thank you. The amendment, which is added after article 75, by a new member of 75a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21172	We'll still be saving.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21173	Thank you. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, added after article 76, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 77 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21174	Unlike Mr. Radulovic, I will save time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21175	Thank you. Member of the 77th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic submitted together to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21176	Thank you, Chairman. Article 77 of this Law deals with an interresor commission that should assess the needs of children, students and adults for further education, health and social support. What prompted the dissension of the Independent Members' Club with the definition of the composition of this interresor committee is that Article 4 states: “The Interresor Commission has five members and four permanent members (pediatary, representative of the Centre for Social Work, defectologist of the appropriate profile and psychologist employed in education and education) and one member at a time. The occasional member is a person who knows a child, student or adult well and who has had longer contact with him and is chosen for each individual. “ What we disagree with is the definition of defecologists as one of the permanent members of the interresor commission because we have all the arguments on our part that further support in education involves not only professional work in the area of defecologists, but can also be the needs of a child and a student in socio-economic, cultural and poor environments, and we believe that the amendment should be extended in practice and replaced by the word “defectologist” with the words “experts expert profile”, which can be a defectologist, but also other experts. We find this amendment extremely justified. And I'm also taking the opportunity to tell you, because I see that you often react with a confirmed head, you can accept the amendments on the spot, because here you are an authorised representative of the Government who is the legislator of the law, and there is no reason, if you agree with really constructive proposals and arguments, as I said, on our side, to accept this amendment, because otherwise you leave open suspicion that these definitions are intended, or that there are corrupt motives to be used for someone's purposes of such a provision of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21177	Thank you. Minister Mladen Sarcevic has a word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21178	I just have to tell you that the most common cases in all of these situations are very dysfunctional and that we've done this thoroughly with the profession. So it was their insistence, and we think there's room for all of what you said. So the importance of this inter-resor commission and the way of working with children who are in the processes of inclusion and all the other models that we have said is also the first day in the debate of the law that it was their goal to provide children with the best conditions in any environment, whether it is the ambience of regular school or some special conditions, so that, the importance and work of these commissions, we considered it to be one of the permanent members, and all the other members could be complemented, but the most common number of cases is precisely related to some of the needs of children of that kind, not only, I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21179	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The amendment, which is added after article 77, by a new member of 77a, was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, added after article 77, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21180	I will continue to save, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21181	Thank you. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 78th amendment. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21182	I would accept the president's sentence on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21183	I didn't hear you. Can you repeat that?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21184	The president has taken two minutes and the right to explain one amendment, so I suggest that it be this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21185	Okay. Thank you. The amendment, added after article 78, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21186	We'll still save money to make more money for the investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21187	Thank you. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. No one wants a word. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21188	So, I'll briefly explain this amendment. I believe absolutely that some MPs will not explain the amendments they have made saves nothing, let alone the money for education. So don't keep saying that. We believe it is important that in order to achieve the rights of the child, which are listed in Article 79, we agree, that the institution should be obliged to provide all conditions for the exercise of the rights of children and students. So it's not enough to just declare some rights, let's impose the obligation of the institution to ensure the conditions that those rights can be realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21189	Thank you, colleague Konstantinovic. The amendment, added after article 79, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. No one wants a word. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 80th amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21190	Every day costs about 3,000,000. Two minutes costs about 5,000 dinars. I'll save those 5,000 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21191	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 80th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21192	Thank you, Chairman. And I'm joining the savings. I'll save 5,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21193	Thank you for contributing to our budget. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 80th amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21194	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I ask you to look at this amendment, and you have the opportunity to accept it now at the session. The amendment says that Article 80, which lists the obligations of students, which are to attend classes regularly, comply with the rules of conduct, work on the adoption of knowledge, do not interfere with teaching, etc., to add what was in the previous law, which is to show their real knowledge in the evaluation process, without using various forms of copying and other illicit forms of assistance. We also have a problem with the final exams. We don't know how phenomenal results come from somewhere, whether they're told by teachers or by those who control them not to copy or they're copying from each other, I don't know. So, it would be good to keep that ban on copying. If they start copying from primary school, they don't show their true knowledge. They've learned from the beginning of school to cheat. They learned from the beginning that corruption can also make something happen, and then it follows us back to college, bugs, to buying diplomas, plagiarizing PhDs. So it's important that this is in the law, that there is a ban on copying.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21195	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21196	Thank you. Let me explain. Respect for the rules, generally, is quite wide enough hat. Each institution prescribes a rulebook, so there is a ban on the use of mobiles, any other prohibitions that stand therein, and sanctions that the school assumes. There are easier and more serious injuries for such cases. At least I personally think that in the last year, at least this is the Ministry, because wherever the minister's word stands, please read in plural, that it's the Ministry. The minister only holds the presidency of the Ministry. It's given very clear messages in all the situations when this was happening. We have indeed made a very thorough approach to this process, and we will work to ensure that, as in civilised countries, this happens in the best and most honest way possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21197	Thank you. The amendment, which is added after article 80, by a new member of the 80s, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. No one wants a word. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 81st amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21198	We're still saving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21199	Thank you. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Rade, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21200	I think, Mr. Marinkovic, it's really about time you took care of article 107. Our Rules of Procedure and to stop making fun of, that is, certain MPs to stop making fun of the National Assembly. We do not want citizens watching the transfer of this parliament to think that we MPs who are speaking here, who are talking to the minister, to spend not knowing how crazy time, or money from the budget, and the budget is filling up from citizens' pockets and not getting the wrong impression that now Marijan Risticevic, because he says he saved 5,000 dinars, that he really saved it. This is really just getting intolerable, unserious, and come on, the minister wants to talk to the MPs. We have submitted amendments, we want to speak to both the Minister and the other fellow Members of Parliament. Whoever doesn't want to explain the amendment, it's normal to say he doesn't want to explain it, but this cartooning that made some money, who saved some money, so, please don't, look, all day, it really offends intelligence. Please don't, the media about MPs is writing all the worst, and then we need to send them a picture of us in Serbia as unnecessary. We think that MPs are very much needed, that the Assembly is necessary, that there must be serious and argumentative conversations in the Assembly, can sometimes and unseriously, can sometimes be thrown away, etc. It's not the Science Academy Assembly. The assembly is a parliament where we talk. But please, really, what's happening is insulting intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21201	Thank you. I think like any other MP, Marijan Risticevic has the right, he explains in his own way the amendments he has submitted. I think he's entitled to it. Do you want the National Assembly to plead on your proposal? (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21202	Thank you. I'll spend five thousand dinars on the understanding of some MPs, but I think it's important that we say this. Article 81 speaks when a student, a parent, or another legal representative of a child and a student can report to the ministry that his rights have been violated. It's about very important rights, bans on discrimination, bans on violence, abuse, neglect, etc. You have one item here that says that the application of Article 1 of this Article can be submitted by the student, his host, or by another legal representative within eight days of the day of knowledge of the violation of his rights. We suggest that this deadline does not exist. You know, it might be very difficult for kids to tell their parents what's going on at school. Probably, it's been a while since the child starts to suffer violence, abuse, discrimination, etc., until she tells her parents. I don't know whose it's about, because if it's about... From what knowledge? Do you know about the child? Did you know your parents? How is it determined when this knowledge came to be? A child can suffer abuse, neglect, and then in a month, it's found out. Either to be precise, or to delete, or to replace this deputy "theirs". First, parents will never be violated by the rights you speak of. It's not good. Something about that formulation is wrong. Let's rephrase it. It's so vague. I think in the situations we've had, many schools ignore this behavior. There may even be abuse of this and that many children who are at risk of rights may not have the right to complain because parents said late, because parents did not respond in time, sometimes parents are afraid, not knowing that they will get into trouble with school, teacher, director and psychologist, so either delete this deadline and that whenever parents find out they can apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21203	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21204	I don't think there was any intention of us not accepting any time, but when the parent finds out. So, a child can hide who knows how much, but if a parent finds out, it's simply about him, not now that he has some time to spend, the sooner he has to react. (Alexandra Jerkov: It does not say. () Yes, but that is understood, says the parent. Also when he complains about the final score, there are some deadlines and nothing else. That's what we got from lawyers as some interpretations. Regardless of this, the ministry will always react whenever any case comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21205	Thank you, Minister. The amendment, which adds a new member of 81 after article 81, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marijan Risticevic brought the 82nd amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21206	Whether or not I will submit the amendment, it is my right to choose, as is my right to choose whether or not I will discuss. That depends on the assessment of the situation in the O.R. When I think there's no need for discussions to develop, I'm saving on myself in that case and I don't blame those who don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21207	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which adds a new member of 82 after article 82, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Rističević brought to Article 83 of the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21208	I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21209	Thank you. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 83rd Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which adds a new member of 83 after article 83, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic brought to article 84 of the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21210	My political opponent isn't here, so I'm giving up my argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21211	Thank you. The amendment, which adds a new member of 84 after article 84, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic brought to article 85 of the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21212	For the previous reasons, I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21213	Thank you. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which added the title and article 85 after article 85, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which adds a new member of 85 after article 85, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which adds a new member of 85 after article 85, was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic brought to the 86th Amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21214	I won't explain it this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21215	Thank you. On Article 86, the amendment was brought by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted to the 86th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. No one wants a word. Members of the 86th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21216	Thank you. Yes, I want a word because I consider this to be one of the most important members of this law, and when it comes to the behavior, rights and protection of students, it concerns educational discipline and legal protection of students. As I said, we are asking by amendment that members of 6, 7 and 15 are deleted because they are engaged in educational discipline and humanitarian work as measures for punishing students, as penalty measures, and when they do serious injuries that are taxed. As severe as the student is, we risk this law with such provisions, and all those who will be responsible for its application that, not only violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but rather more ratified international conventions, in the first place, I will remind the IOR Convention on Forced Labour No. 29, which explicitly states that the forced and compulsory work of any work that that person, in this case, did not consent voluntarily. This is something that is absolutely inadmissible to remain in the law, i.e. it should imply the consent of the child, and given that the penalty measure is at stake, it is impossible. Of course, I mentioned the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is also at risk of breaching such provisions and what is further problematic is contaminating humanitarian work as a criminal measure. Instead of humanitarian work being a value that is regular, which is promoted, which is encouraged and nurtured in educational work, you recognize humanitarian work here as a criminal measure for students who have committed serious injuries in institutions. I must say, I'm surprised by not responding to the trustee for the protection of equality to such provisions six, seven and fifteen that have been found or remain in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21217	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21218	Not all measures are criminal, some are merely educational. If a friend pushes the other one, and this one breaks his arm, I think it's very correct to tell him that he can carry the other one's bag because he caused that trouble. It's kind of human work. If a kid breaks a bench or a chair, he's sure to get close. There's an explanation for that member. Certainly not coercion, with parents, paedagogical, because here we forget the word pedagogue. So, with the janitor or anyone else in the workshop, do something. There won't be any overwork, but more to realize that he's done something wrong and that he's being constructive towards such an opportunity. Children at school usually like to clean snow, leaves, run, report to the school's janitors, and it's a very common phenomenon. At that time no one exploited the children, but they simply cared about the arrangement of their own space, the courtyards, so that these measures were not penal, but were merely educational.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21219	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21220	Thank you. I could agree with you, if the legal framework, and the legal regulation, and the legal language could not interpret and put at risk a poor interpretation of these provisions. These examples you've set are examples that are meant to be, which should not be defined by law at all to apply. So, if a student is destroying something at school, it's perfectly normal that his class elder will first in class, I guess, in front of the whole class, and then maybe find allies in that charity work, not only to fix the bench, but also to fix all the other benches. It's just, that's something, I was also an educational worker, I taught at school, and I know what pedagogical work means, but we're talking about standardizing these measures through the law, so that these syntagms in the legal language can mean something completely different, and that the legal language in the ratified international conventions indicates that any work that didn't get the consent of the child is considered forced. I warn that we are at risk not only of these conventions but also of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that such normisation through the legal language is problematic. This is usually understood, I say, and it is not necessary to go further to these arguments as if we don't know what the student's obligation is when something is done. After all, we parents, too, and as a parent, I pay not only for the insurance of students, which means the damage done to other students, but also for the school inventory. So the funds are also provided, even if the students don't do it to hire carpenters who may not be at risk of cutting off their fingers, or students, but will do so by professionals who have been educated to build a bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21221	Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21222	Just a second, if I may tell you. The last attitude regulates that matter. So it's going to be a special rule that will prescribe what it can, what it can't, just to protect everything that you've talked about. So it's not just a school-to-school case, it's going to be done as a kind of instruction and regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21223	Thank you, Minister. Member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment added after article 86 by a new member of 86 was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment added after article 86 by a new member of 86 was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment added after article 86 by a new member of 86 was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added to the title of the new article 86b, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21224	I'm giving up an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21225	Thank you. The amendment added after article 87 by a new member of 87a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21226	I'll give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21227	National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted to the 88th amendment. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21228	I thank the chairman. We will not explain this amendment, so that we can make our contribution to the conclusion of today's debate earlier and that the government doesn't have to come here tomorrow to answer questions, because everything is focused on it, and they can't come here and stand before us and answer our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21229	Thank you. I thought yours would be focused on saving. Member of the 88th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added to Article 88, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21230	I'll give up my education.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21231	Thank you. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric.. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, added after article 89, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21232	I'll save time this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21233	Thank you. Members of the 90th Amendment were submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21234	We don't propose a lot of amendments, but they're all important and we're terribly sorry that we're obviously not going to make it, but just a few to mention at all, and I'm terribly sorry that this debate went this way. No one is quite innocent, but there are responsibilities on one side and on the other, it's my subjective opinion, but I think the leadership of the Assembly simply blamed one side of it. We've got a bunch of false amendments here, we're proposing hundreds of amendments, amendments that aren't really, there's a colleague of Radeta's actually right to say, she's an experienced MP, whatever. The point of this amendment is, but it's more of a proposal for a future debate, as well as the one with mandatory high schools, the meaning of this amendment is actually the abolition of private elementary schools, to translate into Serbian these minutes and some of my time. So, high schools, colleges private, or high school, or high school, it's already open, it has arguments both for and against. I mean, when it comes to basic education, and I especially appeal to colleagues and other MP groups, regardless of the atmosphere being passed as soon as possible and just to end it, I believe that intimately most of them consider themselves, I think it's a huge mistake, not at all interested in who's responsible for that and who introduced that possibility, but I know that earlier it wasn't, I know that it's fashion, basic school should be, of course, mandatory, as it is, and should be under the state cap. We can talk about other levels of education one way or another. That's the point. So, everything else, let's just say the amendment that we're not going to get to, I think the real purpose of this second law that we're definitely not going to be able to discuss is, the essence of this whole law is in one proposal that we've challenged with our amendment, which says that, I would ask the minister to comment on, that university professors can continue to work for up to 70 years. We think it's bad. I think it's wrong, and I'd like the minister to comment on it, because it's a measure of autocratic and directed against scientific rejuvenation, directed against the scientific rejuvenation that is rapidly emanating from our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21235	Thank you. I'm sorry you have 40 seconds left, I just saw you have time, so you can pick up. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21236	I thank the chairman. It is an amendment whose intensity is that the founding rights of national councils of national minorities allow them to be the founders of educational institutions. This was accepted by the amendment from colleagues from the SVM parliamentary group, however, rejected my amendment trying to introduce the national councils of the national minorities as founders of a public institution in paragraph 3. This issue is important because only public institutions in the education system of the Republic of Serbia have the right to be, i.e. they are financed directly from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In this way we think that those educational institutions whose founders are national councils are excluded from it and that possibly those students who would attend that kind of school would have to bear, i.e. their parents, self-financing. It should be said that this position, Article 90, is directly contrary to Article 2. Law on national councils of national minorities, i.e. on the jurisdiction of national councils of national minorities, where it is directly mentioned that national councils of national minorities have the right to establish institutions in their area of direct competence. That includes education. The non-acceptation of this amendment then has its own repercusion and therefore, since this institute has already been vacant, first of all, by the Hungarian national community and it appears as the founder of a number of schools in the Hungarian language, in this way I think that for new national minorities, such as Croatia, this right is being denied and it contains a certain kind of discriminatory consequences. A team before, I think this is important for the reason that rejection violates Article 20. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the relationship...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21237	Thanks, buddy. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21238	... human and minority rights must not be questioned. A team before, I think this is important for the reason that this is the way it is. refusal to comply with Article 20. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the relationship between human and minority rights must not be questioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21239	Thank you. Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Zoltan Pek submitted together to the 90th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 90th Amendment. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21240	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, the amendment is the same as the amendment of counterpart Tomislav Žigmanov, because we worked them out in agreement with the coordination of national councils and they pointed out that it would not be, in some ways, good. Thank you for adopting this amendment to SVM, but you only adopted that national councils can form, establish an institution, but not a public institution. I am now looking at the amendment to Article 91, the first position is that the institution can establish a Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government. So, in all this, if you accepted the amendment to SVM, where you added that the institution could establish national councils of national minorities, and here in Article 91, you refused to do the same to us, so I don't know why you refused now. This is where you accepted it, and here the same applies to the facility, and the LSMV you refused the same amendment, so I don't know what it is right now? Is that an oversight, or is it just that I don't know what this is about?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21241	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21242	I think you understand that the law goes to 22 places. The finance ministry would not at any time grant approval to create public institutions and set-ups in the public sector other than the province, the local self-government unit and the Republic and no one else. So the possibility of establishing an institution is now a matter of jurisdiction that it can, but not as a public one. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21243	The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21244	Thank you. Then Article 91 doesn't say it's a public institution, it's a facility. Article 90, paragraph 3, states that it is a public institution, and in Article 91, paragraph 1, reads only – an institution, so I don't know why this confusion is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21245	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21246	Just for a little while. If you look at 91 and after this attitude 3 says – another legal or physical person. So, for now, that category is set up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21247	Thank you, Minister. National MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted the 90th amendment together. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21248	With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the promoter and simply promote our position. This article refers to who may be the founder of the institution, but is thought, above all, of pre-school, primary and secondary education institutions. I just remind you, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is talking about the right to education and that is the obligation of the Republic. The founder of these institutions can be the Republic of Serbia, the founding rights are exercised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and it is good that the law states that, as founders, natural and legal persons can appear. Apart from these three types of founders, there is no room for an autonomous province or for a unit of local self-government. Why? Because under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province and units of local self-government are not a system of state government, but of rural autonomy and local self-government, and here in the inheritance, something has been demonstrated since the time of the second Tito and self-government, about everyone's participation in governance, so you imposed obligations on the units of local self-government and autonomous province for something that is the responsibility of the state. You're still going to some gymnastics, that it's a matter of transferable affairs, etc., which is quite the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, since you carry responsibility as a government, as a republican authority, you must also take care of the network of these institutions. Why? To capillaryly cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. You can't be threatened by a private institution in that basic function of yours. In a private educational institution, the primary goal is to gain, and when it comes to public education, it is not a dominant profit but a system of values from the earliest days for those children, as students, to get better involved in the social environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21249	Thank you. The amendment, which adds a new member of the 90s, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21250	I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21251	Thank you. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. Here you go, colleague Zigmanov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21252	Again, the issue of this substance law is about minority self-government, which and how they can achieve it, when it comes to education, again it is impossible for them to be the founders of an institution in the field of culture, an institution of education, because in the first position, they are explicitly not listed as founders. I think it's an additional contribution to my basic thesis, that when it comes to minority rights and their integration into this legislative proposal, it is that it has not been done consistently and has not been done in each segment. It is located, in other words, in a conflict with basic settings and constitutional principles, when it comes to minority rights and another sectoral segment, when it comes to minority rights. In this way, this inconsistencies will further complicate this entire segment of education, when it comes to education in the languages of national minorities and bring, I think, to one galatias, a cacaphony that cannot be resolved, possibly by addressing the Constitutional Court or some international organisations, when it comes to this kind of problem. I don't know why it's avoided in this law, persistently, the possibility that even national councils, national minorities as by the state, the established self-government of the bodies of minority communities, would be deprived of their substance rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21253	Thank you, fellow Zigmanov. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 91st Amendment. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21254	Thank you. I'll say the same thing again. So, if in the first position that the institution can establish, among other things, national advice, which you accepted from the SVM, in Article 91, the first position is the same, exactly the same, so the institution can establish a Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, and the National Council should certainly pass there, if it has passed in Article 90. Now, look again, but I think it's identical.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21255	Thank you, colleague of the Papuga. Members of the 91st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 91st amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go, colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21256	This is about this previous amendment, that is, this suggestion to seriously consider the idea, at this point in the hall there is no mood for basic education to be only mandatory, as it is and to be in the jurisdiction of the state. So, there's a formal and essential argument. The formal here is stated in reason, the condition that a private person can establish an institution is a bank guarantee. Since basic education is mandatory, imagine now that someone is going to go, children are enrolling in that primary school, the owner is bankrupt, what has happened to both those students and those who have gone, what benefits they have from being activated by a bank guarantee, when they have ruined something that is their right and their obligation, which is basic education. That's what I'd say is an important, concrete reason. There's another, more principled, but it's not insignificant and it shouldn't be insignificant. The greatest minds, the greatest social scientists of modern times, from Hobbaum, the great historian, to Habermas, the great philosopher, say that what created national awareness and modern nation and modern state, as a single national state, is a general military obligation and is necessarily a basic education. So, when it went to the authority of the state, when the state started taking care of the military and education, that's how modern nations came into existence. It's no accident, I'd say, that today's trend is that neither military obligation is mandatory nor is the primary school concerned by the state. So I especially appeal to fellow socialists, although I think that many of you are not foreign to the idea, why private schools? We introduce segregation among children, we introduce tycunization. Who attends private elementary schools? Just the children of the tycoon. Others are those that foreigners are founded for foreign citizens in Serbia. I think it's bad, that it's taken over as some trend and some fashion, which is right now in Europe, but essentially harmful and very soon we'll see how harmful it is. We didn't have this research, but in Russia, research was done in these private schools, and it turns out that private school students have significantly worse results on PISA tests. I know we have well-organized private systems. I know the minister's coming from a private education system, but I'm only talking about elementary schools for now. I think basic education should be, as it is, mandatory and must be the care of the state and should not be private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21257	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The amendment, which is added after article 91, by a new member of 91a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21258	Thank you. I'll give up my argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21259	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, to Article 92. Professor Chevarlich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All three amendments I submitted as an individual MP suggested to me by the Association of School Librarians of Serbia. Yesterday at the break, I talked to the minister about it. Their primary goal is to list the conditions for the work of the facility, in addition to the prescribed space, equipment, the school library must also stand. Normally, that doesn't apply to out-of-the-way departments. They beg to be incorporated into the law, and the school library, and normally the sublegal act will regulate the school library fund, the structure and the school library fund. I would ask the minister to see if this article in 92 can be completed, the space, the equipment and the school library are prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21261	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. Minister Sarcevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21262	Dear Professor, after these laws come special laws, and then go normative acts. Very important acts are normative about the equipment of schools and every institution, no matter when it starts working, must maintain standards of standard equipment. The equipment includes the school library. So it's very standardized – and how many titles and what kind and everything else is prescribed. So that's already the tradition of some in our school that exists. All you have to do is be responsible and renew it and maintain it to be in a quality offer to the students.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21263	Thank you, Minister. Member of the 92nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, which is added to the title after article 92, was submitted by MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Professor Chevarlich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21264	Just to repeat that the Society of School Libraries considers it necessary for the existence of a school library to be prescribed by law, in order to avoid different and arbitrary interpretations regarding the existence of libraries in schools, because the library must be an organisational unit of each educational institution. If it's not prescribed by law, then in the sublegal act, I'm not sure it can be so well regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21265	Thank you, Professor. The amendment, which is added after article 92, by a new member of 92, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 93 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is a colleague of Rističević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21266	Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment and the article, it is said that the institution can teach outside the seat, in the seat and outside the seat. Yesterday I claimed, provided he met the conditions. That's why, Mr. Minister, I'm asking you, for what I said yesterday, to visit the TQ building in India and to see if that out-of-state department met the conditions and whether it ever met the conditions and that measures were taken accordingly, if some students who had no space, no equipment, no lectures, etc. were assessed and only travel expenses were received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21267	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The amendment, added after article 93, by a new member of 93a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 94 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is a colleague of Rističević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21268	I will not explain this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21269	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric to Article 94. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, added after article 94, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 95th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is a colleague of Rističević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21270	I'll save time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21271	Thank you. The amendment, added after article 95, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 96 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is a colleague of Rističević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21272	I won't explain the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21273	Thank you. The amendment, which is added after article 96, by a new member of 96, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 97 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is a colleague of Rističević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21274	I'm giving up an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21275	Thank you. The amendment, added after article 97a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 98 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is a colleague of Rističević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21276	I'll give up an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21277	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted to the 98th amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21278	We have submitted an amendment to Article 98, which otherwise speaks of the extended activity of the institutions, so that people who follow this should know what this is about, and this expanded activity of the institutions, or schools, can be the provision of services, production, sales and other activities, in accordance with the regulations governing the classification of performance. We didn't touch that. However, in the 7th paragraph, which we have deleted, it states that the decision on the extended activity of a public institution contains a plan of revenue and expenditure for the implementation of that activity, a way of recruiting students, adults and employees and a way of making use of the resources achieved, in accordance with the rules governing the budgetary system. This has nothing to do with the budget system, the budget system law, or should it. We said that this should be deleted and well written in an explanation that, if this was the way these funds were used, the establishment would not remain practically anything because the above-mentioned position of the bill seems detimulative to the achievement of the extended work. You said he could do extensive work, and that's fine, but if he can, then we should stimulate them, not destimulate them. You didn't say right again why you refused the amendment. You said you didn't accept it because the facility itself estimates whether it had an interest, or the need to have an extended activity, which is part of the institution's autonomy. It's about the entire article 98, but not the attitude 7, whose erasure we've suggested. We still think it would be good to accept that this attitude is deleted so that this Article 98 would make sense and that really institutions would have both the will and the desire and the intention for this extended activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21279	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21280	I just have to give one interpretation, that we're in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, because it's been standing like this for years, we've maintained this standard that can be overcome through the establishment of student cooperatives, because if we don't have student cooperatives, and someone's only betraying a sports hall, and then those funds have to be shown and used, so we're looking for a separate school account and for this activity. So one bigger hat of all that stuff. We are very aware that our agricultural and many other schools would remain in great trouble because they could not restore either livestock production or veterinary service or anything else. But when they sell part of their surplus value, for that money they must buy what they need to rebuild. I've been to a lot of schools, especially high school. They have extended activities that already have their very large incomes. If they run out of student cooperatives, they should invest in Serbia's budget, there is no doubt. But if the school account were to be set aside, through a student cooperative, it was very clearly channeled that the needs were not hidden, and that's better. That's why we agreed with the Ministry of Finance to arrange it through student cooperatives. We even assigned one person to the Ministry to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21281	Thank you, Minister. An amendment to which a new Article 98a is added after Article 98a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 99 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21282	I'll give up my argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21283	National MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted the 99th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21284	Article 99. The bill refers to something you called the institution's autonomy. The very word autonomy means freedom. But education institutions shouldn't have that kind of autonomy that you're talking about. All of the above mentioned in Article 99 are the phases of one procedure as to how verified, planning and programming documents of one institution occur. It's something that's legally binding. He thinks it's a clumsy termology, because it's something that's a process, however many of these institutions, especially those that in the system of state education were self-evaluating something about their work, it's actually applying existing laws and regulations on how education is done. The competent authorities of the school administration, when they supervise, just do whatever is individually related to the school is in line with the general plans and programmes. So there are no self-governments or any autonomy but there is more room to talk about the way and the way the institution fulfils its legal and programming obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21285	Thank you, colleague Krasic. The 99th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21286	In fact, I explained my amendment to the Committee, so there's no need to explain it again and I'm giving up my comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21287	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. The amendment, which adds a new member of 99 after article 99, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21288	I'll give up an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21289	Thank you. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 100a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 101 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21290	I'm gonna save everybody this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21291	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Zigmanov submitted to the 101st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which adds a new member of 101 after article 101, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 102 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21292	I'm giving up an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21293	The amendment, which adds a new member of 102a after Article 102a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 103 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21294	Since the predecessor is not here, I will not explain the political rival.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21295	Thank you. The amendment, which adds a new member of 103a after Article 103a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 104 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21296	I'll save time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21297	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21298	The second structural weakness of this legislative proposal when it comes to the rights of national minorities is that the right to participate in the decision-making process has been derivated. In particular, when it comes to constitutional guarantees, Article 75 unequivocally states that representatives of national minorities and their bodies have the right to participate in the decision-making process or decide on individual issues themselves. The Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Jurisdiction of National Councils of National Minorities also allows this. This is about the role of national councils of national minorities units of local self-government where teaching takes place in the language of national minorities requires the opinion of national councils of national minorities. It is a legal institute which is not binding and thus requires some kind of, as I would say, roles in a decision-making process that is not valid, is not relevant, has no particular power. My proposal is to change this syntagma in this sense – to obtain an opinion, rather than to strengthen the participation of members of national minorities in the decision-making process in a way to obtain consent. That's how I think their influence would ultimately be far greater. I think this is important, because in this way the inclusion of members of national minorities in this segment of democratic participation, which is the norm of all democratic societies and EU standards, would certainly be assessed not only as positive when it comes to the efforts made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to improve the social position of national minorities, but also by those who...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21300	... and these are members of the national minorities, the move was positive.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21301	Thank you. The amendment with the correction was submitted to Article 104 by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment adding a new member of 104a after Article 104a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 105 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21302	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21303	Thank you. An amendment adding a new member of 105a after article 105a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21304	Ladies and gentlemen, aware that the time foreseen for the explanation is near, aware that there is no mood of the government and the present MPs to respect my amendments that would improve this law, at least I thought so, I will also give up in written form all amendments, given that by saving, by saving my time, we have saved more than 400,000 dinars, and that this savings would be greater, I will withdraw in writing, or in writing, all amendments, so as to shorten the vote to the extent to which my amendments apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21305	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Now I'm setting a five-minute break. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Thank you for your patience. Parliamentarians Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which adds a new member of 106 after article 106, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 107 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which adds a new 107 member after article 107, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 108 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which adds a new member of 108 after article 108, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which adds a new member of 109 after article 109a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted to the 110th amendment. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21307	Thank you, Chairman. Otherwise, I asked for the terms not constitutional to be deleted from this article in a public debate. In fact, there is a proper ban on discrimination at school and that is absolutely correct. However, if we have that it is forbidden to discriminate on the basis of gender, I think it is entirely excessive to add – based on gender, gender identity and sexual orientation. Yesterday, the minister made it clear that he had no intention of giving up his informal address, so I'm really interested in how he thinks he can explain to a champion in elementary school what sexual orientation is without exposing these children to premature sexualization. We also have in the UNDP report a clear indication that Jender ideology is being introduced into this country. To be clear, LGBT has been talked about so far, and now we have LGBTI, which will, after all, be heard more and more frequently in the address of officials, because they are simply such instructions. To be "ay" or "i" as "intersexual". To make it even more clear what it looks like in the world – "lebi and gay", "bisexuo", "transgender", "transsexual", "to spiritid", "kvir", "kvestenning", "intersex", "asexual", etc. There are countless of them. So, in our constitution stands half male and female and do not rush to promote homosexual ideology until you at least change the Constitution. Save our children and throw out your birth identity and sexual orientation from this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21308	National MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted together to the 110th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21309	It's a member who refers to a ban on discrimination. I don't think there really is, I understand that by this provision, if I may say so, you've worked out something from the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. But you haven't worked anything out, but you've overwrited the relevant parts of it, so to speak, the general regulation, unnecessarily burdened this bill and this provision. Of course you're so-called. positive discrimination is not discrimination, we all know it and whether it's in the law or not, so I don't know what the purpose is to rewrite the provisions of a law and put it into this bill. I don't know what you've been handling. Probably, since you have a burden on those chapters, on that path to the EU, and perhaps some clerk in Brussels says, the law is good, but you lack another provision. You know, we have it in general law. It doesn't matter what you have, it has to be here. In order for them to justify their work there, so that here the Ministry of Integration with the EU will justify a job, so that these protectors can justify a job, so let's also justify a job, so let's also justify a job, as if asking a question, why have we passed a general law on the prohibition of discrimination, if we need to quote the provisions of that law in each individual law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21310	Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 110a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Comrade Radulovich, you have no right to speak. You were given three warnings during this session. Thank you. (Tatjana Macura: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21311	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, a member of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly has been injured, I mean Article 109. He was injured in full, because Sasa Radulovic was completely unjust and against what was written in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the word was taken away.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21312	My colleague Macura, I apologize, you know that you can only indicate on the violation of the Rules of Procedure when a breach of the Rules of Procedure is done. (Tatyana Macura: Just give me a word to finish.) I can't give you my word, because you're talking about something that happened two days ago and a few hours ago. (Dusan Pavlovic: It has now happened. It didn't happen now. (Tatyana Macura: Give me a word to explain.) I know exactly what happened, thank you. Act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and report accordingly. (Tatyana Macura: Will you let me finish? ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21313	I thank the chairman. In this amendment, we asked for the word "potential" to be deleted because the term "potential" leaves a very dangerous possibility for manipulation. Given that we have the highlight, and the master of manipulation at the very head of the state, and that today we are repatriating these laws at the Ministry of Education, can you imagine, to what limits, there are actually no limits to which students and teachers can be harassed, because if we go like this, if a professor of ignorance gives a student a unit, he may be accused of potentially jeopardizing student health without talking about some other manipulations that these children are learning from the biggest officials in this country. Therefore, at least leave some minimum dignity to teachers and a minimum chance for children to learn at school, not just from their parents, if they are lucky, to have a healthy family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21314	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21315	The definition you quote is otherwise taken from the World Health Organization in the original.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21316	Thank you, Minister. Members of the 111th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21317	Article 111 is really very important. He's talking about banning violence, abuse and neglect, but somehow the problem of this article, as well as the whole law, is that it leaves the possibility for different interpretations and too broad interpretations. In this case, it shouldn't be like that. You know, and the whole public knows that, unfortunately, there's a lot of peer violence going on in schools, that there's even violence against teachers by some arrogant students and their parents, we talked about it in the principle debate, who thinks they bought everything at school from the director to the student. We're thinking, that this should have been arranged much more precisely, and even this should have been incorporated into the Criminal Code and we don't need every moment to collect some political points looking for a law with this or that child's name, as far as we're concerned, quite morbidly. We need to pass laws to prevent how you wrote this, or you wrote a ban, but to prevent this kind of violence, and we, within this article, have suggested that this attitude be deleted where you wrote "under psychic violence in terms of this law is considered behavior that leads to immediate or permanent endangerment of mental and emotional health and dignity". This is totally cobwebs. Who's the one who determines that? Is that a teacher, a class elder, a psychologist, a psychiatrist, some expert groups that exist at the ministry level? In order for this to make sense, we must be precise, and we have submitted the amendment and just to draw your attention to the importance of this subject and this member to think about it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21318	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. The amendment was submitted to Article 111 by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after Article 111a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21319	I thank the chairman. I would like to say that this amendment relating to the purchase of free textbooks for all students in Serbia, both in primary and secondary schools, is obvious that this Assembly does not want to discuss it and therefore has excluded the representative, or it has taken away the MP, who has proposed this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21320	The amendment with correction was submitted to Article 112 by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) It was submitted to Article 112 of the amendment by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 112a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) (Alexander Markovic: Where did he get the time? A colleague of Pavlović, you have time. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21321	This is an amendment, Mr Krasic, proposing to buy free textbooks for all children in Serbia, both in primary and secondary schools. We've been discussing this for two days, and you've been trying to stop people who want to at least suggest that we discuss it. Come on, at least tell me what you think about the public of Serbia being able to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21322	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 113. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21323	Now, this is an amendment relating to party activity in primary schools. The law, i.e. the bill says that this is forbidden, however, does not say that it refers to state officials. So I have proposed here that a member on the ban on party action and organisation in schools also refer to MPs, the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court judges, government members, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and all others who could perform party or political activity in schools. I think that in the last few decades it has been very present in our schools, when state officials, presidents of the Republic, Prime Ministers, ministers, come as party people, so not as state officials but as party people, let's say the current President of the Republic while he was prime minister was doing it very often, and the previous President of the Republic, also, from time to time. I think it would be good for this amendment to be adopted to finally prevent child abuse from being abused in party need. Local officials, also very often come to primary schools, take pictures with children, then put it on their websites, and promote it as party activity. Mr. Minister, you are not a party man, fortunately, I hope you will remain a non-partisan man by the end of your term. What do you think if something like that happened at your school? He comes in, say, a minister or a president of the municipality, and then, at your school, he's agitating for his party. I'm sure you wouldn't allow it, so it would be good if you accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21324	I thank my colleague Pavlovic. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21325	Thank you, Chairman. Article 113 of this Act is addressed - The ban on party organisation and operation states in its sole position: "The establishment prohibits party organisation and operation and the use of the premises for those purposes. “, with which the Parliament club of Independent Members absolutely agrees, but we consider this position incomplete, that is, a member of the Law, and we want to supplement it with the words, i.e. paragraph 2, which reads: “There is no religious organization and the operation and use of the place of the institution for these purposes. “ So, in this amendment, we want schools, kindergartens, and primary and secondary schools, and preschool institutions to ban religious activity in addition to party activities. Ministers, I believe you know well the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in Article 11, which is addressed – The World of States, says: "The Republic of Serbia is a world state, church and religious communities are separate from the state, no religion can be established as state or compulsory." We have, in practice and experience, had more examples of the abuse of religion, dominantly one, which among other things belongs to me, so Orthodox religion is at stake, but that doesn't mean that they have places in state schools. Please, this amendment, as I said, you are absolutely authorized, to be able, on the spot as an authorised representative of the Government, who is the legislator of the law, to adopt amendments and, in accordance with the Constitution, to agree this amendment and to prohibit and religious action in our educational institutions, because it cannot simply oppose the Constitution to define any law, and especially not to abuse itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21326	Thank you, colleague Tepic. The amendment, which is added after Article 113, by a new member of the 113s, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Dusan Pavlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21327	This is also an amendment relating to paying textbooks from the budget for all students in Serbia, both primary and secondary schools. I just want to read why the government refused this amendment. So the government does not want to provide textbooks for all children in Serbia. It says - the amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the concept of the bill. So the concept of this law is that parents have to bear the cost of buying textbooks for their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21328	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 114. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Dusan Pavlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21329	This is about parents playing a slightly larger role in the organs that decide in school. I think the current experience, where parents are increasingly less and less involved in making important decisions about who will be head of school, which textbooks will be bought for school and many other things, is very bad for the general democratic spirit of our society. So, as you know, let's say, when the principal is appointed, the parents will no longer have the opportunity to decide, and at the moment there is a protest in Zemun, where the parents of a school are protesting because the director of that school has been replaced by the Ministry of Education and that... (Zoran Krasic: By this? )......................................................................................................... Not yet on this one, but this will make it even easier. So, removed by the Ministry of Education, a new director was appointed whom neither the community of teachers of that school nor the community of parents of that school wanted. (Zoran Krasic: Nor students. I don't know about that now, Mr. Krassic. Maybe you know, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21330	Mr Pavlovic, you have no more time as an authorised representative of the Parliament Group. (Dusan Pavlovic: I am the proposing amendment. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. (Marinika Tepic: It is not true, submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Check it out. There you go, there you go, you got another minute. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21331	How the chairman always manages badly with the presidency when someone from the opposition speaks, and when he speaks, everything flows like cold water. So, the parents are currently protesting, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister... (Dragana Barisic: Is that an amendment? ) Well, follow the discussion if you can, since the chairman has little trouble holding the session. So, parents are currently protesting at a school in Zemun because the minister replaced the school's director, set up another person that neither parents want nor teachers want. This amendment suggests that parents stay even more involved because their children go to that school. Kids, of course they can't know, they can't make decisions about who's supposed to be the director, but their parents can decide that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21332	Thank you, Mr. Pavlovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21333	Thank you, Chairman. Several members were violated - Article 106, but also Article 107. Here we had an example of the ultimate hypocrisy of the previous speaker who only minutes ago talked about the abuse of God's children for political purposes, and that's what he's doing right now, explaining his amendment. So, it's a political protest at a elementary school in Zemun, which, because of their efforts to show it in a way I don't know how, became planetaryly famous, and I'm going to tell you what's behind that protest. The abuse of children for party purposes, the chairman, is hidden. Here, we have a picture here of Milos Djajic, a candidate for vice president of the DS, who is the organizer of this protest, and this is a prime example of the abuse of these children for party and political purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21334	A colleague of Markovic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21335	On the other hand, you didn't react, and you were supposed to react when he accused the president of coming to visit the school as a party man. That's not true. He never came as a party man, but always and exclusively as President of the Republic or Prime Minister. The party's chairman, the chairman, was visiting at the time of the campaign at the university, presenting himself as some sort of expert. What kind of expert is Sasa Radulovic? What is Sasa Radulovic expert for? For stealing?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21336	Mr. Markovic, a colleague, Pavlovic, spoke about the amendment he submitted. I made a technical failure. I thought he was talking about Mr. Radulovic's amendment, I'm sorry, but it seems to me that, according to what you were saying, he didn't give me a break. I think you're a little off topic, too, but I'm not, you're absolutely right, Mr. Markovic, I didn't respond to one part, and this other part you were talking about I didn't hear about, but that's why you're here to point out if a certain failure is made. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Markovic: No. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21337	Thank you. Chairman, I believe that you have injured a member of the 27th Rules of Procedure, which we are all obliged to take care of, to respect, or not to violate. You haven't applied properly, as it says. You have allowed your colleague Markovic to abuse the advertising of the Rules of Procedure and use two minutes for a replica, you dare not interrupt it, which I can understand, because you are a coalition partner of the ruling majority, but, as I have offered to the chairman Marinkovic, I would offer protection to you and to ask you to apply this Rules of Procedure, not to be afraid to apply it. So many witnesses are present in this National Assembly, seeing what is happening and how it reacts. I ask you that whenever Members of the majority violate the Rules of Procedure and abuse him, pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, they enter the replica and bring out political views, you punish them as much as we do from the opposition, and not allow them to talk for two minutes and then indicate that there may be something wrong or let us point out a full two minutes through the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, and then eventually bring your judgment through an explanation. So either we all talk two minutes in the Rules of Procedure or all those who enter the replica break up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21338	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21339	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 158(4), says - every applicant of the amendment has the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular cannot be longer than 10 hours. This isn't a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'll just ask you as chairman at this point...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21340	Then you can't, you can't beg through a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't do that. You keep mentioning the chairman, and only your MP group does what they want here. You're saying this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'll say it. That's how you behave in parliament. You all take lessons and do whatever you want, as a voluntary singing society. Where were we? The amendment, added after article 115, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Let's see how much time you got. Let's see, slow down, so we've got all the time you want, just take it easy. So Dusan Pavlovic spent his time. On what basis do you answer? (Sasa Radulovic: You took two minutes. Take it easy. What's the rush? We want to get to the truth. Your group's got its own stream show here for three days, so don't worry about it. Citizens pay. It's all right. Time has been spent as authorized. Maybe you like it, maybe you don't like it. Mr. Radulovich, will you explain your amendment? Oh, you've been taken from me. You don't respect Parliament's decisions. You're stupiding around here with us. How can you not be ashamed? You hold press conferences where you say your word has been taken from you, you come here, you mess with us, you draw money from the pockets of Serbian citizens, to give free textbooks. Shame on you. You don't respect Parliament. You've been taken from your word, and you'll be away from the session if you continue to make a circus here and make one. Your word has been taken from you. (National MP Sasa Radulovic stands and gestures. ) You've been taken from your word, and now you're getting a distance from the session for 20 days. Think about how you're acting, and we've got health care downstairs. I'm asking the cameras to record Sasa Radulovich's circus she's making here. Have a good trip. You're way off the table. One minute. I'd like the services to escort an MP away from the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Close the door when you come out. Take out the card, according to the Rules of Procedure, so that there is no use of the card, because you are inclined to do so. I ask the services to close the door, allow us to continue our work, since the MP doesn't know that when it comes out of the closed room, the door closes, from the house, from work, from the office, etc. All about the cost of Serbian citizens, to be clear. The amendment, which is added after article 115, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic, who was excluded from the session's work for 20 days. Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 116. He's not there. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 116 of the amendment. He's not there. Members of Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic jointly submitted the amendment. The word is Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21341	Thank you. This is the amendment that we wanted to introduce some changes in the composition of the governing body. To clarify maybe for the people who are watching us, it's actually the composition of the school board. So far there have been three or three, three staff members, three local self-governments and three parents. Now that this new bill provides for a primate to be given to local self-government, we think it's very bad, because local self-government gets the most members, and parents and employees get less. We think this leads to politicisation and strengthening the democratic capacity of a society. We have proposed this amendment that four of the school board, i.e. the managing authority, make up the school's employees, that three parents, and only two of the local self-government. Why just two local self-government guys? Because local self-government is always about politics, and the school board shouldn't be about politics. He knows this might piss off the government's deputies. I also have to mention here this school "Miletic" in Zemun and the people who strike there, that we have a situation for employees and parents to plead and that they lead the main story, then we could easily solve the situation and see what it is. I don't think local self-government should take up this many people on the school board, because it leads to school politicization.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21342	Thank you. We're taking a five-minute break, because now we've finished the time spent on the discussion of the amendments, those 10 hours, and authorized and MPs. [[after breaks]] Here it is, if we get the exact data, you can take pictures, tweet, do whatever you want, behind this is Parliament, and you know it's true, don't make it up. (Marco Djurisic: It says on the e-parliament.) What's this? ) Đurišić, ask close relatives who work in parliament to give you accurate information, at least you can check it out. So much for your idolatry. So much for your idolatry. I don't know what this is supposed to mean. You will check the easiest of all MPs. As for the authorised Serbian Progressive Party, 8.57; DS as regards the authorised, it is the only time left, 4.18; Sanda Raskovic Ivić Ivić 12.58, because you have not used; Marko Djurisic, since you are not authorized, 1.19; and Torbica, I apologize, 6.12. That's all the time that's left. The applicants, if they're not authorized, can't speak, because they've wasted their time. They'll correct the data they've provided now, and they'll explain to you if they need to go to college what happened. (Vladimir Djuric: Yesterday evening it said... ) As far as I know, yesterday your esteemed colleague, tweeter, gave the same information, and now we're discussing another 10 hours. So, after four hours, he gives the same information as yesterday night when he yells at me here. The opposition's MPs are insolent. Let's move on. Really, if you don't have stronger arguments, you only have this, then it's... The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. We'll talk about everything at the College. We'll talk about the service. I'm very open to it. Members Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic, together submitted the amendment. You don't have that time. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. Ten plus that time. That's how it counts. If you think it's ten, we spent it a long time ago. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. Now you're changing your mind. You say the total time, and we've calculated the time, plus the authorized, plus the parliamentary groups, we've charged a lot more. So, about 19, 20 hours. The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. They can be authorized, not tolerated. Do you understand me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21344	So you decided to stop the debate just when we come to the most interesting amendments to this law, those relating to the fact that local self-government, or your party colleagues, will have control over the work of the school boards, that you will be setting up directors, that it may be for unlimited time, that these directors will have all the authority, that the temporary authorities that you will personally appoint can also sit as temporary authorities. You obviously don't want to talk about it. I have to ask you, Mr. Sarcevic, do you know that the meeting of the Education Committee is scheduled and that we will now adopt some amendments in the voting day. We still don't know if these members we're talking about are going to adopt that some other universities are being accredited. It's just terrible that you agreed to discuss the amendments to education like this. We worked hard on the amendment. We tried to talk to you. You say it yourself, and probably the deadline was too short to read all the amendments, and that's why some aren't adopted. What you're doing with education, Mr. Sarcevic, I think it's the worst thing this government does. You will set up and resolve the directors yourself, and your party colleagues will resolve the school boards, bring your own school plans and programs, bring your own textbook plans, empower the National Educational Council, the National Council for Higher Education, set them yourself, bring your own criteria for all. I told you -- it's going to be a lot, these aren't any education laws, these are education control laws, and the Higher Education Act, as we now see from the submitted amendments, serves exclusively that those universities that haven't been accredited for 15 years get accreditation. I believe you have deceived the MPs of the people. I think you deceived the citizens when you were talking about the systemic changes you're introducing into this education. You don't enter any system changes, you only give yourself more jurisdiction, more control and those who can't accredit colleges, you allow them to do it now. I'm sorry we won't be able to talk about higher education, I'm sorry we won't be able to talk about how you're going to disperse from Serbia those who need to lead science. I'm sorry that we won't be able to talk about how you're setting up directors, and by doing that, we'll probably manipulate that every school in Serbia has an obedient who'll do exactly what you want. And I'm sorry that the National Assembly has become a place where things like this can't be talked about. Only colleagues who talked so much about saving and us who talk about amendments would attack to spend money, ask – will they finance both the paper and the press of all the hundreds of amendments distributed in hundreds of copies, and after the withdrawal of the same amendments, which consisted only of adding marks to the places where the Serbian spelling does not agree that the cuts should be? It's terrible what was done by this debate about the laws that were supposed to be the most important laws we're discussing today. You'll probably do something like that when we talk about dual education, when we talk about textbooks. It's no problem that we can't talk here. That's the least of the problems. The problem is that our schools are going to have children who won't be finished, and according to this, everything we've seen, you don't need finished people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21345	Thank you, colleague Jerkov, you have wasted your time as an authorised representative of the DS. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21346	Article 106, I would ask the chairman to protect this house from the permanent abuse we have been listening to all along, and as far as colleague Aleksandra Jerkov is concerned, he is constantly referring to a topic that is not the point of the agenda. So we're at the draft law on the basics of education and education, she jumps all the time to higher education, for her famous reasons. I would really ask these falling rectors and falling her establishment to allow her to doctor for these few months, as long as this transition from old to new system and finally put an end to her frustrations, the problems she has and where she can't go for a moment without touching the subject of accreditation, her favorite University of New Market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21347	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic. I don't think I hurt that member of the Rules of Procedure for one simple reason, because my colleague Jerkov, in the way he looks at the Parliament club he belongs to and as an authorised representative, spoke of an amendment submitted to Article 116. I'm not always able to predict what the MPs will talk about, you're absolutely right, but I repeat by who knows which time, which is why you're here to suggest when something like this happens. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you, Mr. Zukorlich. The word is made by MP Maja Vidinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21348	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I hope, while you're trying to hold a session to concentrate on the inappropriate misappropriations of the SNS MPs, at this point on me and on what Mr. Zukorlic... I call for a violation of article 107, an unimaginable violation of my colleague Zukorlic's Rules of Procedure, who brutally abused his colleague, Alexander Jerkov, with incredibly inadmissible insinuations. This, not only tried to bring it down, for he cannot do it, her dignity, but also the dignity of the National Assembly. It is amazing that you tolerate the incredible abuse of a MP who, by chance, is the chairman of the Education Committee, who tries to accredit a university by no standard could...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21349	You can't, colleague Vidinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21350	... It is your obligation not to allow any humiliation of the MPs in place...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21351	My colleague Vidinović, I will not allow you, through the abuse of the Rules of Procedure on Labour and the indication of the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 106 or 107, to replicate your colleagues, Zukorlic. (Marco Djurisic: You allowed and his was not a replica? ) My colleague Zukorlic did not address the MP Aleksandra Jerkov, speaking to me as chairman, asking me to protect, as I understand it, the dignity of the National Assembly, is that right, Mr Zukorlic, in the context in which you spoke. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Yes) Together, Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted the amendment to Article 116. The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. Comrade Tepic, you do not have the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. (Marinika Tepic: Then according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27) You can't play. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 116. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov to Article 116. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. There's no time left, thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic to Article 116. The amendment, which is added after article 116a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which is added after article 116a, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The amendment with the correction was submitted to article 117, by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 117. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević together submitted to the 117th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21352	Thank you, Chairman. Article 117. The draft law defines the mandate of the managing authority or the school board. We all know that the school board numbers nine members, three members of staff, three or three of the parents' councils, and three or three of them proposed by local self-government. There's a noise in the O.R. Please, give me back my time, it's a noise. We all know that the school board appoints or resolves a local congregation from the ranks of parent, employee, and local self - government councils. So, Article 117. The bill defines the term of office of members of the school board. We know that the members of the school board of nine members are elected by the local congregation. It is provided here for the 6th position that if it is established in the control of work and the appointment or resolution of members of the school board, local self-government i.e. The local self-government assembly is required to correct identified irregularities within 15 days. If he fails to do so, the minister will set up a temporary governing body. We have responded here with the amendment, to place a comma and to say – but in the law and in the structure foreseen by the law, which means that a further temporary body must count nine members of the staff, advice from parents and local self-government means that even for the members of the school board who are the temporary body of the proposals should give you local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21353	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milomir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21354	Dear Chairman, I point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it is certainly a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. In fact, we have witnessed, in recent days, how some representatives of the opposition, and especially the people of the Parliament group "Enough Has Been" have violated the reputation of this respected House. In fact, three reminders were issued yesterday from the parliamentary group and was removed from Parliament's work and we are witnessing... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21355	Comrade Vujadinović, I'm going to have to interrupt you. If you're referring to colleague Stamenkovic who just got into the O.R., she did get three warnings, her word was taken, but she's not away from the session, so I didn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The amendment, added after article 117, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Do you want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic to Article 118. Here you go, colleague Mihaylovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21356	The Honorable Chairman, you rushed, so you didn't give me your word, and I wanted to comment on the amendment to 117, and as far as the amendment member is concerned, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21357	I thank my colleague, Mihajlovic. I'm sorry, you weren't in the system. If I'd seen you in the system, I'd have given you my word. Members of the 118th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 118a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 119th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Mr. Djurishic, you have one minute and 19 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21358	You're so worried about the time I have, I've got 56 seconds of MPs' group and I'm gonna take every moment to point out the bad one again, have some problems with respected colleagues?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21359	Here you go, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21360	Do your duty and take care of peace in the O.R. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me point once again to the bad side of this bill, among other things, the ones we tried to correct with this amendment, which is about the selection of directors. This law through this member and through several of the following members, which unfortunately because of the theft of time by the President of Parliament, we will not be able to speak, has put all power in the hands of the minister. By adopting this law, the choice of all school principals, over 1,000 schools, will be in the hands of the minister. I can't believe the minister at the start of the hearing and this debate said this law would introduce more efficiency in education. How can one man, a minister, effectively appoint a director over 1,000 schools in Serbia? What's that efficiency? How are we going to have, are we going to have school directors or are we going to have school principals, which is how this government has been managing the state for five years? We passed a law on public enterprises a year and a half ago. We've been handing out a selection of directors in the competitions for a year to finish. It's been six months, that choice isn't over. We'll have the same situation again here. We'll have a wd in all schools in Serbia. Directors will have to be listeners to local SNS stations and we will have, instead of good and quality education, party education, as we have party public enterprises, such as we have a party state, party media, and therefore Serbia and young people from Serbia leave today, which is why young people from Serbia do not see their future here and this law will further make it difficult to make that picture worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21361	Comrade Djurishic, here's the extra 56 seconds you used. What about the ones they stole? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Marco Djurisic: Stole, that is said in Serbian. ) (Maja Gojkovic: Rules of Procedure. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21362	Your Honor, you are truly tolerated when you allow an MP per article 27 to endanger this House's dignity. No one can say to the president, no one can tell anyone here that you stole anything. It is truly scandalous what is happening these few days in this House and how the opposition, which are the arguments of the opposition, which are discussing the proposed laws, if anyone even remembers what's on the agenda. Parliament is threatened, therefore, by a member of parliament's 27th dignity and the reputation of this parliament is also at stake by the behaviour of Sasa Radulovic, who had just insulted journalist "Politika", who has been a rapporteur here for tens of years, Miru Cekerevic. He really has to react on a number of grounds here in parliament. Thank you very much. (Tatjana Macura: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21363	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21364	Thank you. A member of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly was injured, item 107. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. As you might have heard earlier, Parliamentarian Maja Gojkovic, who spoke to us from the ranks where the MPs were otherwise addressed, pointed out that another MP had violated the dignity of the National Assembly, although only minutes ago in direct transmission, which all Serbian citizens could see, insulted the secretary-general. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21365	Comrade Macura, you can point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure the moment she does. But that other part of the exposure was about something that might have happened, I don't know before what time period. So, not exactly the moment that colleague Gojkovic called. It is very interesting for you to note that you noticed in one dignified way how Maja Gojkovic spoke and pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, without noticeing earlier to indicate when from the opposition you could hear what was heard during the debate. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21366	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21367	Just a moment, please, put the card back in, something's wrong with the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21368	It's because of Sasha Radulovic, the system is falling apart here. Article 103, so the MP has the right to orally point to an injury directly after the injury, of course, which is not indicated. I don't see where it says in the Rules of Procedure that communication between Parliament President and Secretary-General is a matter of Tatiana Macura, so she'll say something convenient when Parliament's president says it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure when certain MPs do and harm the dignity of this parliament. It cannot escape the truth and Tatjana Macura can report 500 thousand times, that Sasa Radulovic has defamed this parliament, this session in these three days, and now he has also attacked journalist Mira Cekerevic. Here, the media is talking about how he insulted her for her freedom of reporting and for not commending his behavior. I will not give up on citizens of Serbia knowing everything, not just what the MP group has served us "Enough" in these three days. That's enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21369	My colleague Gojkovic, I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure, because what you were talking about, I've just pointed out through my explanation to my colleague Macuri. Thank you. Members of the 119th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, and together by Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic. My friend Lapcievich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21370	Dear Chairman, we have submitted an amendment to article 119 concerning the responsibility of school boards and boards of pre-school institutions. I must at first express my regret and one disappointment over the atmosphere that ruled the previous days in this House, so we have discussed a law concerning all of us and the future of our children. It would really be normal and ultimately expected that such an important topic as is the foundation of a society we are discussing in the atmosphere of tolerance, mutual respect, respect for arguments, all with the aim of coming together to a better solution than our education tomorrow for our children. We agree that it is not the best, and I think that the MPs on both sides have contributed equally. I'm really sorry that in this atmosphere we end up discussing amendments, but I think there's been far more room for us to respect each other and come to a better solution. We have suggested that in Article 119, where it is mentioned the powers of the managing authority, in particular the school boards, point 7, which says that, according to your proposal for the law, the school board only gives an opinion and proposes the selection of the director of the institution, not to be so, but to be left in the responsibility of the school board. Minister, you know better than that, we have more than 1,800 schools in our country. You don't need it, I don't suppose that's your intensity, to appoint 1,800 people, to take care of how the processes were carried out and to put pressures on 1,800 places by setting up various directors. There are pressures, of course, from both the president of the municipalities and the people of the parties, and I don't think you or any other minister of education need that ingenuity. Leave it to the school boards, let them deal with it. After all, the minister will work much easier if there is no pressure and obligation to worry about which director he will be in a village, in a municipality across Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21371	Thank you, colleague Lapčević. The amendment was submitted to article 119 by the National MP Vesna Marjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 119 of the amendment, National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, added after article 119, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament of the Dveri Group together submitted to the 120th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 120th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 120th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 120th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to the 120th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to the 120th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 120, by a new member of 120a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above the members and member of the 121st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Vesna Marjanović and together Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Sreto Peric submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 121, by a new member of 121a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted the amendment to Article 122. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the amendment to Article 122. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 122 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 122, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after Article 122, by a new member of 122a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 123. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the amendment 123rd. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. My colleague Raskovic Ivić, you have 12 minutes and 58 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll talk about this amendment, but since I have time, I'm going to expand the subject a little bit. First of all, I'd like to start with this amendment. In fact, the legislator has made a proposal here, or the government has proposed that the director of the institution, all institutions, or all schools, be elected by the minister. I also said in my presentation that this is a very bad solution, that it leads to a total centralization, that it leads to a total partization of education. Besides, for almost 2,000 schools in Serbia that exist, based on what comes from the field, the minister himself will have to read and determine who will be directors, without even knowing those people. Given the situation in our society, given that public enterprises have become party prey, since the media, in particular they are electronically, fully participated, we now have the introduction of a party school, because it is clear that the minister will be under pressure to choose people who are listeners of the ruling party or in some minor case of the ruling coalition, so someone from the coalition may be able to use the ministry, or the minister to push through one of his directors. Of course, I would also take advantage of the fact that this choice of directors that performs exclusively and only the minister and this one general centralization is linked to this other law and to say that the Higher Education Act also runs one total centralisation and division, i.e. that there and the National Council, which is elected by the Government, should be elected by the Assembly, and then this Accreditation Agency should be completely abolished because we already have an accreditation commission. I truly suspect that this Agency for Accreditation and Designation is designed to allow certain colleges that cannot obtain accreditation to get the same and to allow some colleges that can be accredited to the cost of party staff who would have a problem with accreditation, or to enroll state universities or some perhaps more prestigious and slightly better private colleges. That is why I must say that I strongly condemn Mr Zukorlic's testimony towards my colleague, our fellow MP, Mrs Jerkov, who only pointed to her suspicions, and was violated so that her doctorate at the state college, the Faculty of Political Sciences, is being questioned. I hope you really should react and that you should respond to this and the authorities. And also, I want to say a few words about the very atmosphere that has ruled here in this National Assembly in the last few days, but otherwise the government does, although now these laws have something to do with the heat. Not wanting to settle down, nor is my parliamentary group, on either side, but I still have to point out that the atmosphere dictates most. If most had not acted as she did and those who led the congregation had not acted as they did, such an atmosphere would never have occurred. Also, I would like to point out one of the terrible manipulations which he has resorted to, apparently, the frontman of the ruling coalition, or the ruling Serbian Progressive Party, which is Mr. Marijan Risticevic, who has submitted nearly 300 amendments here, I think is about 290 amendments, so that he can withdraw them all, which is nothing but a simple maneuver, so that it is spent pulling time for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21373	My colleague, I beg you, I will make up for your time, but I have given you my word by amendment to Article 123, which you have put together with your fellow Members and colleagues from your parliamentary group. Please focus your exposure on the amendment to Article 123.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21374	I used, Mr. Chairman, my time on the subject. It may be a little difficult just to use that time, especially when you gave people close to the regime or who are from the ruling coalition to use their time however they wanted and to talk about anything and about whoever they wanted. It is clear that this discussion will be interrupted very quickly, that it will join the vote and that many things will not be clarified. But seeing as you're threatening to take my word for it, I've said enough and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21375	Thank you. My colleague Zukorlic wants a replica, since it's mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21376	The least I ever wanted was for ladies to come out on my side all the time. That's why I've been avoiding direct provocations for days and days, but obviously there are MP groups that don't have men, and then they send the ladies on the line, and I have to answer, however I can. I ask the chairman to allow me to respond to the previous lady.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21377	Please respond and respect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21378	Actually, I'm in. I answer in my own way. Please don't waste these two minutes on me, to say what would be the answer to this provocation and provoking. The second thing, the main evil that happened to us Bosniaks in Sandzak, came from the political option Mrs. Raskovic Ivić. After 10 years, we cannot resolve the consequences of the then government. It was an open deal with Bosniaks both towards the Islamic community and towards our education and towards all other segments. I would really ask those who have no clean hands, while they were in power earlier, to pay little attention to what they're going to say, to see who they're going to provoke, because they're only causing an avalanche that's mostly politically falling on their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21379	Comrade Zukorlic, I gave you a replica because you were really mentioned. Fellow Members of Sanda Raskovic Ivić, you have the basis and I will give you the replica, but just a moment. Col. Comic pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and has priority over replication. Coli Zukorlic, I have made it possible for you to replicate your colleague, Sandi Raskovic Ivić, because there was a basis for it, you were mentioned in the presentation directly, but I ask you that when you get those additional two minutes, you respect the dignity of both the MPs and the MPs and the National Assembly and that we respond with the arguments. Col. Comić, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21380	I thank you, Vice President, and I thank you and I thank you for your attempt to call, however, in the People's Parliament's Dialogue on respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and to respect both the 27th provision and the 107 provision, because it is unacceptable to speak here in the language of discrimination and disqualify, any woman, any men. Hypothetically, there would be a very emotional reaction here if I asked if any of the people in public affairs were beating women. And that would be inadmissible. Because it is a question that is not the subject of debates and debates in the National Assembly. But we all need to be the subject of not agreeing to a dictionary of verbal violence and trying to demeaning the MPs on the basis of whether they are women or men. We haven't heard one word from any woman, and there's one word in this House of 85, one word that she would dare to think of demeaning any man because of his accidental birth as a man. This is where we heard it from MP Zukorlic several times. I guess he's so used to it because they let him belittle women, I don't know if anyone even beats him, let him insult women. It can't be done in the National Assembly. To all those who cheer for it, and who applaud it for it, is the same replica – it is a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21381	I think that through the stated violation of the Rules of Procedure, you yourself have found that in some way I have suggested my colleague Zukorlic, and I really do not want to believe that my colleague Zukorlic had the intention and purpose for any kind of violence, but I have asked him to, through respect for the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, respect and MPs and MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A fellow Zukorlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure? My colleague, Raskovic Ivić, will give you the floor, but the priority is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21382	Article 104. So I can't believe I was incomprehensible. I mentioned ladies just pointing out my respect and the fact that because I'm able to answer the ladies, they're actually somewhat tied hands to me. I can't understand that the previous speaker points out that there's an insult. I can't figure out where the insult is? And especially this permanent emphasis on verbal violence. I can't understand. You all day when I'm talking, you're making faces, like a lady, and I can't figure out that you're letting yourself. It's not violence, your provocations are not violence, the lies you bring are not violence, and all you respond adequately is violence. In my education and my culture there is no swearing, there is no vulgarity and you will never hear it from me. But the truth that possibly hurts, well, it exists, along with all the fences, with a lot of effort not to insult anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21383	Comrade Zukorlic, would you like the National Assembly in the Day of Vote to declare the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21384	Thank you. It repeats itself and therefore reminds you of Article 27 and Article 107 and Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Discrimination, forbidden by law. In Serbia, treating others is based on their personal properties. The law is in force in the Republic of Serbia and we are obliged to monitor the implementation of the law. When someone says, I refrain because she's a woman, he doesn't understand that it's discrimination and that it's me, but that every woman, not me or my colleague, but every woman demeans on the basis of personal qualities. You have not heard a sentence from any woman in this National Assembly; I understand that he is a poor helpless man; I understand that he was not loved in childhood because he was a boy; I do not understand because no one sat with him to play with as a boy. When you hear those sentences, then you understand what discrimination is, because they are inadmissible and forbidden and demeaning men based on their personal qualities. It's terrible that we laugh at sentences that at the same pace and same spirit demean women just because they're women. (Maya Gojkovic: That is not true. ) (Vesna Rakonjac: It is a personal experience. I am convinced that MP Zukorlic, with your sincere support, is ready for discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21385	My colleague Komic, I understand that my colleague Zukorlic, on the contrary, wants to make an apology because he is misread and misunderstood. I didn't realize, I repeat, that his goal was any violence, even verbal violence. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Gordana Comić: No. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21386	I believe that the members of 103 and 104 have been injured and that Col. Komic has abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure to express her personal opinion and her personal feelings. Ambassador Zukorlic is an MP as well as all 250 MPs. He has the right to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and has the right to replicate. He kept quiet for a few days and didn't respond to provocations or insults. If we are going to be equal, then Zukorlic has the right to answer both the Messenger and the Messengers. If we are going to talk about equality on behalf of all women, I would like to thank the MPs Gordani Komic and those MPs who have clapped and approved Sasa Radulovic and other MPs who have been in an offensive and rude way, who have been harassing me for two and a half days just because I am a woman, just because I am the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and everyone has seen it. And then it's cute and then it's not for judgment, and when Mira Cekervac is attacked, then it's not for judgment, then it sits down and agrees? Mr. Zukorlic has not offended all the women in this House. He said there are no men in your ranks, and there are none. Let the camera show, here, I'll stand up, where are the men's deputies in the DS benches? There's not one. You four are women. They didn't insult us. You have not offended us, Mr. Zukorlic. I would personally react if I felt hatred in your words toward women.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21387	I thank my colleague Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21388	I will stand in his defense. He didn't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21389	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Maya Gojkovic: No. ) Since I believe that we have strayed from the subject, I am giving a two-minute break in accordance with Article 112, after which we will return to the debate according to the amendments. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer to Mr. Zukorlic that the Bosniaks in the Rasko area, as I like to say, although of course I respect the name Sandzak, I prefer the Raska area, because I am Raskovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21392	My colleague, Raskovic Ivić, I thought you would be speaking according to the amendment, and I am a little while, in accordance with Article 109... (Sanda Rasovic Ivić: I have to answer. ) I will not have dialogue, I will hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So I gave you my word on the amendment. Do you want to speak by amendment? You don't want to speak by amendment. [[Sanda Rasovic Ivić: This is a replica.]] (Sanda Rasovic Ivić: I want to answer. ) On Article 123 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Tatjana Macura: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Tatjana Macura: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The break was to keep working. So, according to Article 112, we took a break to get back to the debate on the amendments and, here, we're just reading the amendments, so we couldn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic to Article 123. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the amendment to Article 123. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 123rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic and Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milorad Mircic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic together submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 123. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic together submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 123rd amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 123 of the amendment, MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tomislav Zigmanov submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after Article 123, by a new member of 123a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 124th Amendment were submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the amendment to Article 124. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted the amendment to Article 124. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after Article 124, was submitted by a new member of 124a, by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to Article 125 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 125th amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslava Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 125th amendment. Members of the 125th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment, which is added after article 125, was submitted by a new member of 125a, MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 126th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Members of the 126th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslava Alexic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. National MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted the 126th amendment together. The amendment, which is added after Article 126, by a new member of 126a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The National MPs Branka Stamenković, Mr Goran Čabradi, together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, together Dr. Sanda Rašković Ivić, Dr. Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinović and together Dejan Šukić, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević, together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozović and Maja Vidinović and together Marinika Tepić, Aleksandra Čabraja, Zoran Zivković, Sonja Pavlović and Jovan Jovanovic. My colleague Gajic has no more time, neither you nor Mr Lapčević. (Marinika Tepic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You don't have time for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21393	I am advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure, article 27, under which you are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, which states very precisely that the amendment debate is up to 10 o'clock. An hour ago, she was interrupted, and you didn't give me any more than 200 minutes, or more than four hours to continue the debate on the amendments. I didn't get a reason for this calculation and concluded that there was no time for amendments anymore. So it's not about personal calculation of the remaining time, it's about the official tendering that's been set up here and provided the system electronically for measuring time. So this parliament in the service, which serves to measure time, has made it clear that we have more than 200 minutes, or more than four hours to discuss. You keep jumping and you don't give us a word, you didn't even give me the same remark right before this, or the violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part to explain it. I insist, insist, and because of us MPs and for the sake of the public, to tell us which account is any of you who holds the presidency, and you have come to the conclusion that we no longer have the amendment time, when the electronic system explicitly shows that we have more than four hours of time. Please, if you're not doing anything to listen to us, be so patient that you may listen to us, be patient, endure and let us explain the amendments. The law on higher education is not the principle of discussion. It may be someone's hand, it's going to show up to whom, but let's use our rights and explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21394	Thank you, colleague Tepic. The question you raised and pointed to the violation of Rules of Procedure, which has already been answered, following a consultation with the Technical Service by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I have no intention of repeating and respecting what the president said and, I repeat, with very clear and precise information that she received from the technical service, if you have any doubts, please, speak to the technical service representatives. It's up to me to respect the Rules of Procedure and keep working. (Marinika Tepic: Give me that information. ( ) Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to declare itself? Yeah. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21395	Mr. Milicevic, I'm advocating article 108 to be held at the session of the old president of the National Assembly. I don't understand why they're nervous colleagues. counterpart Tepic did not advertise the member. (Marinika Tepic: Article 27 has been advertised Think of your head as the chairman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21396	Comrade Tepic, I ask you to allow me to conduct the session...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21397	Mr. Milicevic, may I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21398	Of course, Mr. Milojich. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21399	It's already been 35 seconds. Thank you. I'm glad you've managed to cope with the pressure of the ruling majority screaming at you here...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21400	It's not about pressure, it's about...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21401	... Don't give me your word. I'm advocating Article 108 that in the session of the National Assembly, the old president of the National Assembly, and I don't know why, not to say a harsh word, you've taken time away from us to the entire opposition. I know that the Prime Minister must not meet tomorrow in the Assembly and I know that that is why you want this session to end as soon as possible. Mr. Milicevic, at least please don't do it or participate in it. If that's what SNS does, there's no need for all of you to be blind SNS listeners, because we're right. Please prove by some document that we're wrong. You can't just take away our time. Not you personally, but the chairman, the president of the National Assembly who has now gone and left you. That's not fair at first. Secondly, we are not at the market, but in parliament. Third, we're not gonna let you do this. I don't really know what to say rougher, and to be polite besides that, it's not fair. I have two minutes to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you have no right to take away my word, regardless of how nervous Mr Martinovic is across the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21402	My colleague Milojic, there is no reason for you to speak to Mr Martinovic, speak to me. Please continue to speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21403	I'm talking to you and I see what Mr. Martinovic is doing whenever someone from the opposition picks up the word. Please document how many oppositions there is time and how many left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21404	Is that the only question you have? I have recently answered this question, and the answer is very precise and clear, following consultations, I repeat, with the technical service, given by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think I hurt a member of the Rules of Procedure you pointed to. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. The 107th and 109th dignity of the National Assembly and the pronunciation of reminders. Since Mrs. Marinika violated the order at the session by throwing multiple times, before you gave her the word she was saying, and you had to give her a warning measure according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm not in favour of excessive punishment for the MPs of the opposition, but a violation of dignity, you certainly chaired, and you know, by reason of the amendment, we came to 495 and that's for sure, so two minutes, that's about 990 minutes. The debate in particular, in the interpretation of amendments, can take 600 minutes, or 10 hours. All who graduated from primary school, at least four grades of primary school, and even those like my fellow farmers who bought a degree in Macedonia, can calculate that the debate could have ended on the 300th amendment. But there are those of us who have been saving time and those who have given up their explanation, and that is why, instead of the 300th amendment, we have completed the discussion in particular on the 495 amendment. When someone maliciously interprets mathematics, it's a violation of dignity, they need to return it to primary school, along with their leader. But as someone was faithful to his stranger, so is he faithful to the schoolware. (Vladimir Đurić: According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 158.)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21406	Easy, what's the rush? Col. Risticevic, do you want the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? (No) counterpart Raskovic Ivić, you are the first in the electronic system. Did you get that? (No) A colleague of Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21407	I thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 27. Rules of Procedure, given that something has been happening lately that must not be allowed in this congregation. First of all, every MP must know the Rules of Procedure. Whoever doesn't know the Rules of Procedure, that's his problem, but whoever knows the Rules of Procedure and abuses the Rules of Procedure, then that means you have to act. The reaction involves the application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and consistently, not only with a reminder, but also with the sanctions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. We also have here how flagrant violations of the Rules of Procedure, which mean that there is an obstruction of the work of this Parliament. I don't think that in any way our relationship with Parliament, and therefore the attitude towards citizens, should be such that the picture from this home goes in a way that it shouldn't go, which is to destroy the dignity of this home and the violation of the dignity of the citizens who have delegated us and chosen us to be here. I ask you to take care of this in the future and abuse, in this case of procedural powers, which are business powers, you severely punish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21408	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I can agree with you. I've seen you very well, you're in the electronic system, you'll get a word in the moment when... So, before you were registered colleague Vladimir Djuric, Marinika Tepic, co-worker Maja Gojkovic. You'll get the word anyway, but let me explain it to my colleague Jovanovic. Thank you. I can agree with my colleague Jovanovic in one part of your presentation, but in the other part, I cannot, because I have no intention of teaching when it comes to knowing the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly, it is certainly not my job, it is not my responsibility, it is not my responsibility. It is the responsibility of each MP individually. On the other hand, I have no intention of even measuring the amount of time the MP group has spent or hasn't spent. It's at the technical service. And it is up to the President of the Assembly and for us as chairmans to give very precise and clear information that we receive from the competent services. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you, do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21409	Thank you. Out of respect for the National Assembly of this country and extreme patriotism, I will report a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 158, paragraph 4. It's a very simple and simple thing, there's no complicated math. In Article 158, paragraph 4 states that each applicant of the amendment has the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes, but that the total time of the interpretation of all amendments, by all applicants, by any parliamentary group, cannot last more than 10 hours, so 600 minutes. In theory, 300 amendments would be defended if we were to defend every amendment for a maximum of two minutes. Dear counterpart Risticevic, when he reports and spends 10 seconds not defending the amendment, his system takes 10 seconds from the Rules of Procedure for 600 minutes. In such a way, we spent up to 13.59 minutes from the estimated 600. At 14.08 and 14.56 on the e-parliament, the official electronic system of this respected home states that the time left to defend amendments 257 minutes and 43 seconds. And that information has been sitting on the e-parliament for an hour. Therefore, by denying the right of MPs to defend their amendments in the remaining 257 minutes, the country's educational laws will be adopted illegally, as the debate on them will be held unlawfully. Dear Ministers, be aware that from this Assembly, the system-based educational laws set out in these...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21410	Dear Djuric, don't worry about the theory, let us respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and just like the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, very precisely and clearly you have received answers to the questions you have asked. I really have no intention of repeating my answers several times already. If you have any doubt, any questions, please, you have technical services, and since you are not in the system, I can't even ask you if you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead for the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. So much for respecting the National Assembly and this home. A colleague of Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21411	Thank you, Chairman. I think you've injured Article 27 and Article 108. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, by not pointing to the previous or earlier speaker, when he tried to insinuate and insult and dignity of our MPs, that we do not know that we count or resemble those who did not even finish primary school. I do not belong to MPs who have ever tried to obstruct the work of parliament, moreover, and in this debate I have been extremely constructive and for this reason I am sorry that we have not been able to discuss the amendments in a good way. So I just want it to be clear. What worries me is that we had one piece of information in the electronic system, and we got another piece of information from the chairman. We're going into a regular session next Tuesday. There's gonna be a lot of work in the last quarter of this year, especially. I'm asking you, I asked you past the microphone, which you heard, to provide us with information on how the time has come for us to have zero time for amendments. It's important to me that I know how to behave next time and how that time counts. So I'm really interested in how this data came about, so we just know how to behave, not just for a minute before the amendment time came to an end. This is a session where we only had two laws. What will happen to sessions where we will have over 20, 30, 40 agenda points, as was the case in the previous period and the session in this term? I'm just asking to hear the way it happened this time, and what happened from the four hours he was showing the e-parliament, we have zero time?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21412	Thank you. We will, of course, act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. About everything you've said, I'll agree with you in one, which is that there's a lot of work ahead of us and I suggest we keep working. Before that, another breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Maja Gojkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21413	I'm sorry to have to answer and participate in this destruction of Parliament and what's going on. Turns out I'm the same as the opposition that deliberately led the citizens of Serbia astray here. It also says here in article 35, to which the Secretary-General corresponds, for those who deceive the public. And if the secretary general's got something wrong, or some service, we'll talk about it. It corresponds to the president of parliament, is in charge of the work of the service, it also corresponds to all MPs. And don't make it up here that I don't have the right to tell the secretary general what and when to check for your well-being. We've been discussing here for three days, and you know, the vice president of parliament is Gordana Comic. It has the same responsibility as the president of parliament, as all vice-presidents of parliament. She came out of the O.R. on purpose, because she confirmed at the beginning of this session how many amendments can pass and how many hours the debate takes. This is very ugly what you're doing. It's very ugly! Pretend you don't know how long the debate is going on. In primary school, children can calculate how long the debate takes. Don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you don't know anything else. Please, Mr. President, you're holding a session, I'm deliberately out of my way, to show that it doesn't matter who runs the session, they're going to harass everyone here, anyone who's trying to keep the Rules of Procedure strictly in place. Do not be afraid, at all, nothing will happen to you if you implement the Rules of Procedure, and if you impose penalties, because another way other than a reduction in wages, the other side cannot understand. They say freedom of speech. What kind of freedom of speech is this? Injury of the Rules of Procedure - freedom of speech. Abuse. Show me just what it's done directly to the Rules of Procedure in the last hour?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21414	I agree with you in what you have said, and above all in the sentence with which you have completed your presentation, and it concerns that, mainly through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we have been able to hear mainly replicas and conversions or MPs or presidents today and during the previous days. Given that the electronic system is quite full, and that we're back away from the agenda point, I will, without fear, as you say, because I have no fear, according to Article 112, give a break from the minute, and then we will proceed according to the amendments. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to Article 128 of the amendment. Members of the 128th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to Article 128 of the amendment. (Radoslav Milojičić: A colleague of the word reported. ) Dear fellow Milojičić, you have been an MP for a very long time and you know the Rules of Procedure. So, a break, consistent with Article 112, to keep working on the agenda. I'm sorry, who answered after the amendment? (Alexandra Jerkov: I responded by amendment. ) If there were, the time of co-worker Jerkov would certainly have received the word: On Article 128 of the amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Ninoslav Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Zoltan Pek submitted the amendment to Article 128. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, which was added after article 128a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Parliamentarians Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted the amendment to Article 129. On Article 129, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. The amendment, which was added after article 129, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The 130th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to the 130th Amendment. The 130th Amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, added after article 130a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, added after article 131, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Goran Chabradi. The amendment, which is added after Article 132, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The National MPs Mr Goran Cabradi and Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, together Dejan Šukić, Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević, together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozović, Maja Vidinović, and together Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Zoran Zivković, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic submitted the amendment in the same text. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted the amendment to Article 133. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted the amendment to Article 133. The amendment, added after article 133, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendments were submitted to Article 134 of the same text by MPs Vesna Marjanović, together with Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović, together Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Zoran Zivković, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to the title and Article 134 of the amendment. The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21416	I'm advertising Article 105. I really ask you, three times, my colleague Maja Vidinović and Aleksandra Jerkov, read them, they want to answer the word... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21417	My colleague Milojičić, thank you. I understand what you're asking. You point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that has been pointed to several times. And in the first sentence, I realized what you wanted, so it was enough for me. You've been given an explanation when it comes to time. Your parliamentary group does not have time to discuss details, or amendments. If you have any misunderstandings, please, you have the Secretary General and the Technical Service. The amendment was submitted to article 134 by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. The amendment, added after article 134, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment was submitted by LJupka Mihajlovska to Article 135. The amendment, which was added after article 135, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 136 of the amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 136th amendment. The amendment, added after article 136, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 137 of the amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 137, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The 138th Amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, which was added after article 138, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Žigmanov to Article 139. Members of the 139th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. My colleagues, you have the time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21418	Thank you. I have time for the amendment. We have proposed a change in attitude 5, that if the language is performed in the language of a national minority, it means, if the school is in language, education from first to eighth, or, say, in high school, teaching is done only in the language of the national minority, and the Serbian language is the language that is required at school, that teachers who compete and that the condition for receiving in a working relationship be that the teacher, teacher, teacher and teacher also knows that they speak the language of the national minority in which the teaching takes place. We simply suggested this because LSV long ago suggested that in schools in mixed environments, especially in Vojvodina, the language of the social environment was introduced, which until 1989 was normal in all schools in mixed environments and in those who were homogeneous environments was taught the language of the social environment. So, and now we propose, perhaps in those other laws that will be following this, to introduce the language of the social environment, because this is very important because of multiculturalism, which may be a little bit lost. No one's sick of learning their neighbor's language. So here, too, we suggest that a professor, a teacher who works at a school where teaching is performed in the language of a national minority, would know that language.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21419	Thank you. The amendment, which was added after article 139, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which is added after article 140, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 141st Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. The amendment, which is added after article 141a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The amendment, which is added after article 142, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which was added after article 143, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, added after article 144, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, added after article 144, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Members of the 145th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. Members of the 145th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. The amendment, which is added after Article 146, by a new member of 146a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 147a after article 147a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Parliamentarians Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic submitted together to Article 148 of the amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 148 after article 148a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which added a new member of 149 after article 149, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The MPs together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Božović and Maja Vidinović submitted to the 150th amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 150 of the amendment. The 150th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. My colleague Raskovic Ivić, just a moment to check the time. You have six minutes and 20 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21420	Thank you. I would like to say something on behalf of our parliamentary group on this amendment that treats the introduction of certain provisions of Alexa's law in this bill on the basis of a system of education and education. I have already said that peer violence has been avoided as a term, which of course is not good, but what we are looking for here is to tighten sanctions related to the loss of a license for those responsible for one part and for the occurrence of that peer violence. I must remind the citizens of Serbia, and all of you here in the O.R., that the class elder of the late boy Alexa justified and covered those who harassed him and who somehow led to his suicide. That lady, that woman who's an educator, not only isn't sanctioned, but she's made progress and she's an educator today. She's the educator of educators today. In order not to repeat this, our MP group feels that we must be legally very strict in order to warn such tragic events and that the death of little Alexa would make some sense, if at all we can talk about the meaning of the death of a child.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21421	Thank you. Member of the 150th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The amendment, which adds the title and member of 150 after article 150, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 150 after article 150, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which is added after article 151a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr Goran Chabradi. Members of the 152nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 152a after Article 152a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The National MPs Mr Goran Cabradi, Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Božović and Maja Vidinović, submitted to the 153rd amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević. The amendment, which added a new member of 153a after Article 153a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. On Article 154 of the amendment, MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted. On Article 154 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together. The 154th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 154a after article 154, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. On Article 155 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Božović and Maja Vidinović. Members of the 155th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With this amendment, we wanted to correct a kind of injustice and discrimination that is being carried out against the believers. We tried to fix their working-law status. In fact, the credentials form a working relationship with a 12-month school, and it repeats itself every year. These people, young people, and they're 1,500 in this country, and that means 1,500 families, they can't live normally, they can't take credit for a stove, let alone some kind of more serious loan. This type of constant uncertainty is certainly not good for anyone’s nerves. What we have suggested is that they are designed to have some kind of probationary working relationship for 12 months, so that both schools and the religious community or church can clearly and well see what kind of believer he is, or what kind of person he is, whether he is teaching in the way that he should do and afterwards that these people have the right to establish a permanent working relationship. I repeat that it is a great shame and that it is a great injustice that people, any, including the believers, are kept in one of these statuses, as a charm in heaven or on earth, and that there is a lasting discrimination against them and that some kind of educational workers of the second order are made of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21423	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21424	I think I have repeatedly pointed out that now it's just a technical problem to materialize it the way you said, as I said in the public debates. We have a brake relating to the Employment Prohibition Act, which is still temporarily in effect, and 15 years ago, their status could have changed, from 2002 to the end of 2014. I'm at least the first minister, and I promised to come to this house, if I were here, with changes and additions to this law that these people would just happen. I promised that in more places and I'm behind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21425	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21426	I just want to say that we keep the Minister for the word, not just this, but in this case, this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21427	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta. The amendment, which added a new member of 155a after article 155a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which is added after Article 156, by a new member of 156a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 157th amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 157a after article 157a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 158a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 159 after article 159, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to the 160th amendment. Members of the 160th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 160th amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 160 after article 160, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which is added after article 161a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 162a after Article 162, was submitted by the MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, added after Article 163 by a new member of 163a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted the amendment to Article 164. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to Article 164. The amendment, which is added after Article 164a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, mr. Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The amendment to Article 165 was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, which adds a new member of 165 after article 165a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic to Article 166. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the National Assembly Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr. Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 166a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 167a after Article 167a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Members of the 168th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, mr. Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 168a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 169 after article 169, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which added a new Member of 170 after Article 170, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Members of the 171st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The amendment, which added a new member of 171a after article 171, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. On Article 172, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. The amendment, which is added after Article 172, by a new member of 172a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 173rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The amendment, added after article 173 by a new member of 173a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 174 after article 174, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Under Article 175 of the amendment, MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, to Article 175. The amendment, which adds a new member of 175a after article 175a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment was submitted to Article 176 by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The amendment, which is added to Article 176a after Article 176a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 177th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. A member added to Article 177a after article 177a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Members of LJupka Mihajlovska and Branka Stamenkovic submitted to the 178th amendment in the same text. The amendment, which is added after article 178a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic, adding a new member of 179a after article 179a, by MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 180th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 180 after article 180, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 181st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The amendment, which is added after article 181 by a new member of 181a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment was submitted to Article 182 by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 182a after Article 182, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Member of the 183rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The amendment, which adds a new member of 183a after Article 183a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic to Article 184. The amendment, which adds a new member of 184a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. On Article 185 of the amendment with correction, the MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Zoltan Peck together submitted. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, which is added after article 185a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. On behalf of Glava XI, an amendment with a correction, was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. At the title of Chapter XI, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 187th amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov to Article 187. Members of the 187th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Member of the 187th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the amendment. Member of the 187th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević jointly submitted to Article 187. Member of the 187th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic to Article 189. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic to Article 189. Member of the 189th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The MPs Dejan Šulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević together submitted to the 189th meeting. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the amendment to Article 189. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Members of the 191st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Zoran Krasic. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 191. The amendment, which added a new member of 191 after Article 191, was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Member of the 193rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. The MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted together. The MPs Verica Radeta, Marina Ristic and Nikola Savic together submitted to the 193. National MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Miroslava Stankovic-Đuričić and Vjerica Radet together submitted to Article 194. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 194. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to article 194. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Filip Stojanovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to Article 195. The National MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Verica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic together submitted to Article 196. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 196. The National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Bozidar Delic submitted together. Member of the 197th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. On Article 197 of the amendment with the correction, MP Vladimir Djuric submitted. Members of the 197th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The amendment, which added a new member of 197a, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The National MPs Petar Jojic, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic submitted together. The MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Momcilo Mandić and Vjerica Radet together submitted to the 198. The National MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Ruzica Nikolic submitted together. The National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted together. The MPs Dejan Šulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević together submitted to the 200th meeting. Member of the 200th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Marina Ristic. The 206th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stankovic-Đuričić and Filip Stojanovic. The 206th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 206th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Natasa Jovanovic. Members of the 207th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft detail law. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the second item of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Higher Education to Article 1 of the amendment together was submitted by MPs Saša Radulović, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanović and Tatjana Macura. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and together Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The 4th amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Zukorlic. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. The National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. The amendment, which is proposed after article 7, to add a title and a new member of the 7a, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The amendment, proposed after article 7, to add a new title and a new member of 7a, was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. The 8th Amendment with correction was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Zukorlic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. (Nenad Konstantinovic: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21428	A colleague, Vice-President of Parliament, so I think you're breaking the Rules of Procedure all the time, because you don't let MPs explain the two-minute amendment. You don't ask anyone if he answered the word or didn't answer the word. I ask the SNS MPs not to receive and not to shout in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21429	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21430	Therefore, Article 158 says – each applicant of the amendment has the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particulars, on this basis, so based on an explanation of two minutes, cannot be longer than 10 hours. The electronic record in parliament says there are 250 minutes left, which means another 125 amendments could be explained. The president of parliament cannot deny the MPs the right to explain the amendments, because there is time. Please stop that practice. Please consult with the President of Parliament. Simply, it abolished parliament today. There's no parliament. We can't talk about the amendments we've proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21431	Thank you. I think we had a really long and reasoned debate. There's no reason to warn anyone. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. On the 11th amendment, MPs Dejan Sulkic and Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted the same text. Please, fellow Members of Parliament, listen to the amendments I'm reading right now. There's no need to throw. Thank you. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. Article 11 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 11th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr. Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr. Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenovic. The 12th amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. Article 12 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: Dejan Šulkić, together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović, together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr. Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and together Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic. The 13th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together by Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović and together by Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The amendments were submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic and Gorica Gajic. The 14th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together by Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović and together by Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together by Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović and together by Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Members of the 16th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dejan Šulkic and together Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 16th amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Article 16 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together by Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović and together by Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together by Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović and together by Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 18th amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together by Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović and together by Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Article 19 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic together submitted the 19th amendment. Members of the 20th and 20th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. On Article 20 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Article 20 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 20th amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandra Belacic submitted together to the 20th amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 21st amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 21st amendment. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 21st amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Article 21 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. Members of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Mr Jasmina Nikolic, Dr Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Milorad Mircic. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Predrag Jelenkovic. (Alexandra Jerkov: Rules of Procedure! Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21432	Thank you, Vice President. Article 158. Look what happened, you've concluded in front of the MPs that it's been 600 minutes, we've used time, and the e-parliament says otherwise. But now you see what, according to the technical service, it is said to the government's representative that there are 139 minutes and 16 seconds left to talk about amendments. Perhaps Mr. Sarcevic, as a representative of the government, would like to report that he is talking about amendments. So, not only did you steal 256 minutes from the MPs, you also stole 139 minutes and 16 seconds from the government's representatives. Mr. Sarčević, Dositej Obradovic would answer, would talk about all these amendments until he uses all 139 minutes. However, you are now denying him the right to speak because you are no longer asking if anyone wants a word. If we accept your theory that we no longer have the right to take our word for it and talk about our amendments, Mr. Minister has the right to take his word for it and to talk about these amendments. You're denying him the right to make amendments to speak. Perhaps he would like to accept some of our amendments, because the minister has the opportunity to accept the amendments at the session. We will now count not only that you have denied us the right to discuss our amendments, but that you have denied the right to accept our amendments at the session. By the way, the e-parliament still says we have 256 minutes to discuss. Somebody make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21433	Thank you for this suggestion, but I really don't see Minister Charcevic need a lawyer. A man has every instrument possible to answer. I didn't, of course, hurt the Rules of Procedure, the man was very, very active, he discussed it. (Alexandra Jerkov: he needs respect for the Rules of Procedure. ( b) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself? You will. Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Filip Stojanovic, Verica Radeta and Sreto Peric. Article 23 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. The amendment, proposed after Article 23, was added to the title and members of 23a, together submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The amendment, proposed after Article 23, is the addition of the title and the 23rd article by MP Goran Jesic. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Zukorlic. Article 27 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At the meeting of the Odora for Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Article 29 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 31st amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Article 31 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At the meeting of the Odora for Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 32nd amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 34th amendment. National MP Zika Gojkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 35th amendment. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together to the 39th amendment. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Parliamentarians Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together to the 40th amendment. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together to the 41st amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 49th amendment. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together to the 52nd amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 52nd amendment. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 52nd amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic together submitted the 52nd amendment. Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21434	I must say that this way of discussing amendments is proof that you want to destroy this parliament, perhaps not you personally, but it is obvious that an order has come for such a thing. This has never been in the history of parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21435	Please, colleague Zivkovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21436	Warn your colleagues not to get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21437	I'll warn you, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21438	And I, of course, can discuss the amendment in Parliament in a way that I think is appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21439	Of course, according to the subject and the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21440	In line with the subject of the amendment. You cannot prevent a discussion of amendments and steal time from MPs. You can turn me off...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21441	Of course I'll shut you down. You abuse a pay phone, that doesn't make sense. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 57th amendment. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. There's no need for hard words, we keep working. Parliamentarians Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 59th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21442	So, the amendment aims to make this law read, legal read, which will be applicable, which will have its beginning and its end, which will have a good aim for this law to be applicable, to benefit all people in Serbia, and especially those who are related to the system of education, whether as students, students, or as teachers, or as parents who expect their children to learn something and to be able to live longer in the 21st century, and also to society as a whole, because this society obviously needs people who know, not cheaters, not thieves, not forgers, not flyers, not flyers. Enable debate. You're going to vote this bill however you want, and that's absolutely logical. Every majority in each parliament can pass the law, and that the Earth is a flat panel that is on three elephants holding it, but that, of course, is not good. Our goal, the opposition people, is to show you where you're wrong. It's not the point of showing how much you don't know, it's obvious, it's just the goal of teaching you that laws can be useful, that laws aren't the desire of a fraud, of a liar, but that it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21443	You're out of time. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted together to the 59th amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21444	So, this amendment also aims at what I said earlier and the present minister knows very well. But this kind of obstruction of parliamentaryism leads to bad laws being passed, so once again I warn you of parliamentary practice. Most people can always vote whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21445	Thank you. Your time is up. You had 20 seconds left. I let you go for two more seconds. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Zoltan Pek submitted together to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 62nd amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Zukorlic. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Predrag Jelenkovic. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together to the 63rd amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 64th amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, to article 64. Do I have time? Just a moment, Professor, to check, I don't think you have, that the time has passed for your parliamentary group. Yes, here, now the secretary has confirmed it to us. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslava Alexic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 64th amendment. Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 64th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together to the 64th amendment. Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Zoltan Pek submitted together to the 64th amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic submitted together to the 64th amendment. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Members of the 68th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Members of the 69th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together to the 71st amendment. Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Members of the 74th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 75th amendment. The 75th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The amendment, proposed to add a title and a new member of 75, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted together to the 78th amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 78th amendment. The 78th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Members of the 81st Amendment were submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Members of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Both MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr Predrag Jelenkovic submitted to the 82nd amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 86. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr Predrag Jelenkovic. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. On what grounds do you report to the professor? The word is Ljubiša Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21446	I think we could have done something about vocational schools here. I don't know why we're the only society that gives up smart and hardworking people, especially since we told ministers that vocational studies will be our future, that we'll try to develop these vocational studies. I think it could have been met by professors of vocational studies, extended their careers, the way it was done in colleges, and I think the conditions are too strong for an extension. I hope that in some future time it will be fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21447	Thank you, Professor. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 95th amendment. Members of the 96th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 100th amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 101st amendment. On Article 102, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. The MPs Sasa Radulović, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura, together submitted the 103rd amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, to Article 103. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted the amendment to Article 104. The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic to article 104. Members of the 104th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted the 105th amendment together. Members of the 105th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Member of the 105th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. To be named above the 110th and the 110th Amendment, with correction, the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandr Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted. On Article 112 of the amendment, MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together. On Article 113 of the amendment, MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together. On Article 114 of the amendment, MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together. The 114th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. On Article 115 of the amendment, MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together. On Article 116 of the amendment, MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together. On Article 118 of the amendment, MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together. On Article 118, the amendment was submitted jointly, MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development of the Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia of the National Assembly, so I can see that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 119 of the amendment, MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together. On Article 119 of the amendment with the correction, MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together. On Article 119 of the amendment, Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Zoltan Peck submitted together. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development of the Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia of the National Assembly, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 120th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 120th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development of the Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia of the National Assembly, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 120th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. On Article 121 of the amendment, MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together. On Article 122 of the amendment, MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together. On Article 123 of the amendment, MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together. On the 125th amendment with the correction, MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura submitted together. The amendment, proposed by member 127, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Members of the 127th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Radulovic, Jasmina Nikolic, Ana Stevanovic and Tatjana Macura. Member of the 127th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The 127th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The 134th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. On Article 135, the amendment was submitted jointly, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 135th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Predrag Jelenkovic. The 137th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. On Article 138 of the amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. The amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric to Article 143. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric to article 144. On Article 146 of the amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. On Article 148 of the amendment, MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together. On Article 149 of the amendment, the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together. On Article 149 of the amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Pursuant to Article 150 of the amendment, Article 157(6) shall apply. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I can see that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs: together by Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović and jointly by Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The break will take another two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21448	Dear People's MPs. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set out on 27 September 2017, starting at 17:00, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Fifth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thanks again for the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21449	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that the hall is present, i.e. it has inserted 138 MPs' cards, and that we have the conditions to decide. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the basis of the education and education system, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138 MPs, against – five, abstention – no one, there are no MPs who have not voted. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted together by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, added after Article 1a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic: I am putting the amendments to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21450	I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after Article 2a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 4, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after Article 3a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group proposed amendments to Articles 4, 17, 20, 22, 49, 73, 76, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 90, 99, 100, 109, 112, 126, 130,136, 138,164,174,176,177,182,193,194, and 195. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Žigmanov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanović.. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and together Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 4a after Article 4, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment on Article 5 of the amendment, which was submitted by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 5a after Article 5a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment to Article 6 of the amendment has been submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after article 6a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 7th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after Article 7a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 8a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Vukovic and Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after article 9a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 10, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after article 11a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 12a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 13a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 14a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, LJupka Mihajlovska, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 15a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 16a after Article 16, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added after Article 17a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 18a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 19a after article 19a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 20a after Article 20a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is then added to Article 21a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for - four against - none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Ljubenovic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 22, by a new member of 22a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 23rd amendment, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović have jointly tabled the amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Nemanja Sarovic and Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – five, against – five. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 23a after Article 23a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 24a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 25a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 26a after article 26a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 27a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is then added to Article 28a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 30a after Article 30a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr Goran Chabradi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 31st, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 32a after article 32a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment with the correction was brought together by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 33rd amendment with the correction, MPs Nikola Savic and Milorad Mircic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 33a after article 33a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new article 34a is added after article 34a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to the 35th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the SRS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment of the 35th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic submitted together to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by seven MPs of the Dveri group and together by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the amendment of the 35th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 35a is added after Article 35a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five members of the SRS parliamentary group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 36a after article 36a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the SRS group submitted to the amendment of the 37th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 37a after article 37a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Mihajlović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the title above the members and Article 38 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 38a after article 38a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the title above the members and the article of the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 39a after article 39a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and members of the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after article 40a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marina Ristic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic put together the title above the members and article 41 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 41a after article 41a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Filip Stojanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and members of the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 42a after article 42a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dubravko Bojic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 43 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by four MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 43a after article 43a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marina Ristic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and members of the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 44a after article 44a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 45 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 45a after article 45a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dubravko Bojic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 46 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 46a after article 46a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five members of the SRS parliamentary group submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 47a after article 47a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 48th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Vesna Marjanovic and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Petar Jojic, Tomislav LJubenović and Zoran Krasic submitted together to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above the member and article of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric to Article 48. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 48a after article 48a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Momcilo Mandic and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 49. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric to Article 49. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 49, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 50a after article 50a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st amendment were submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, LJupka Mihajlovska, submitted to the 51st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 51a after article 51a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DVERI group submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 52a after article 52a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after article 53a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to article 54 after article 54, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group submitted the title above the members and members of the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 55a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 56a after article 56a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 57a after article 57a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 58a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 59th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 59, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 60a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 61a after article 61a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 62a after article 62a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, for - no one, against-no one, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 63a after Article 63a, was submitted by four MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 63a after article 63a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 64, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 65a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare, "No one, against you -- none, abstentioned -- one." I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 66, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—no one, against—one, who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—no one, against—one, who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric to Article 67. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—no one, against—one, who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 67a after article 67a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare, "No one, against you -- none, abstentioned -- one." I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 68a after article 68a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 69th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 69 after article 69, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 70a after article 70a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 71st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for—no one, against—one, who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 71a after article 71a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 72nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 72. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 72a after article 72a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 73a after article 73a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 74 after article 74, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 75 after article 75, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 76th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—one against—no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 76th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new Article 76a is added after Article 76a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 77th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 77th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new member of 77a is added after Article 77a. The MP, Dejan Nikolic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – is there. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new member of 77a is added after Article 77a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 78th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new member of 78 is added after Article 78. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new Article 79a is added after Article 79a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against, no one with abstentions, is one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 80th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new Article 80a is added after article 80a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new article 81a is added after article 81a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new article 82a is added after article 82a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new member of 83 is added after Article 83. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against, no one with abstentions, is one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new member of 84 is added after article 84. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against, no one with abstentions, is one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which the title and article 85 are added after article 85. National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new article 85 is added after article 85. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new article 85 is added after article 85. The MP Dusan Milisavljevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 86. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 86th Amendment with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to article 86. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted the amendment to Article 86. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new member of 86 is added after article 86. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new member of 86 is added after article 86. National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new member of 86 is added after article 86. The MP Dusan Milisavljevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment that will be made after article 86. add a title and a new member of 86b was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new member of 87 is added after Article 87. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to Article 88 of the amendments. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 88th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An amendment to which a new member of 88 is added after article 88. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic.. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric to article 89. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 89 after article 89, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 90th Amendment were submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 90th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 90th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of the 90s, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 91st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 91st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 91st amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 91s after article 91s, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, to Article 92. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to the title and Article 92, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 92 after article 92, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A new member of 93 was added after article 93, MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric to Article 94. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against them. There is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 94 after article 94, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 95 after article 95, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 96 after article 96, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 97 after article 97, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to Article 98. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against them. There is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 98th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against them. There is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 98a after article 98a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 99th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against them. There is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 99 after article 99, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 100th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against them. There is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 100a after article 100a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Zigmanov submitted to the 101st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against them. There is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 101 after article 101, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 102a after Article 102a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 103a after Article 103a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov to Article 104. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against them. There is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 104a after Article 104a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 105 after article 105a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 106th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against them. There is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 106a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A second member of 107 was added after article 107, MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 108, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 109th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against them. There is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 109 after article 109, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 110th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 110th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 110a after article 110a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sustained one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 111 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to Article 111 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 111 by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 111a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 112 by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 112a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 113. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members have submitted the amendment to Article 113. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for - three against - none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 113, by a new member of 113a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sustained one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 114. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 114a after article 114a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 115a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sustained one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 116, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr Goran Chabradi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 116 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 116 by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for - four against - none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 116. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov to Article 116. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic to Article 116. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 116a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 116a, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 117. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 117th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is then added to Article 117a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sustained one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic to article 118. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 118th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović. I am putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new Member of 118a after article 118a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sustained one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 119th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović. I am putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 119th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for - four against - none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 119. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 119th Amendment were submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, together with Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic to article 119. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 119th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 119 after article 119, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 120th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 120th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 120th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 120th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 120th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 120th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 120 after article 120, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above the members and member of the 121st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic and six MPs from the SRS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 121st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 121, by a new member of 121a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted the amendment to Article 122. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the SRS group submitted the amendment to Article 122. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted the amendment to Article 122. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 122, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 122a after Article 122a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 123. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević to Article 123. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 123rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic to Article 123. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 123 of the amendment, seven MPs from the Dvori Group have submitted their votes to this amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 123rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members have submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 123 of the amendment, MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 123, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 123a after Article 123a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic to Article 124. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 124 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the SRS group submitted the amendment to Article 124. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 124 after Article 124, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 125th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 125 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 125 after article 125, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 126th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 126 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the SRS group submitted to Article 126 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 126a is added after Article 126a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Branka Stamenković, Mr Goran Cabradi, seven MPs of the Dveri Parliament Group, together Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djorđa Vukadinović, together Dejan Šukić, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević, together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović and five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent MPs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 127 is added after article 127. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 128th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 128th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic to Article 128. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 128 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment adding a new member of 128a after Article 128a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six of the MPs of the SRS have submitted to Article 129 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 129, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 129a is added after Article 129a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to the 130th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 130a is added after Article 130a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new Article 131a is added after Article 131a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 132 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 132a is added after Article 132a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 133 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Mr Goran Cabradi, the seven MPs of the Dejan Šukić, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović and five MPs of the Parliament group of Members. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 133rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic to Article 133. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 133 is added after Article 133. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 134th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic, seven MPs of the Dveri Parliament group, together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović and five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to the title and Article 134 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 134th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 134a is added after Article 134. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, LJupka Mihajlovska, to Article 135. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 135a is added after Article 135a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, LJupka Mihajlovska, to Article 136. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 136th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 136 is added after Article 136. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 137 by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new Article 137a is added after Article 137a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment adding a new member of 138a after Article 138a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Žigmanov to Article 139. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 139th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member 139a is added after Article 139a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment adding a new member of 140 after article 140. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 141st Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 141a is added after Article 141a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted the amendment to Article 142. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 142a is added after Article 142. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 143a is added after Article 143a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 143a is added after Article 143a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment to which a new member of 144a is added after Article 144. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 145th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 145th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment adding a new member of 145 after article 145. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 146, by a new member of 146a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 147a after article 147a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 148 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 148 after article 148a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 149 after article 149, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 150th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 150 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 150th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 150th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds the title and member of 150 after article 150, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 150 after article 150, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 151a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr Goran Chabradi. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 150th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 152nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm stopping the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted the amendment to Article 152. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 152, the amendment was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 131. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 152a after Article 152a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted the amendment to Article 153. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 153 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Mr Goran Cabradi, seven MPs from the Dveri group and together by Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 131. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 153a after Article 153a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 154th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the amendment to Article 154. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 154th amendment, with a correction, was filed by seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 154a after article 154, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the amendment to Article 154. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 155th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by seven MPs from the Dveri group and together by Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 155th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 155th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 155a after article 155a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 156, by a new member of 156a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DVERI group submitted to Article 157 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 157a after article 157a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 158a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 159 after article 159, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to the 160th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 160th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 160th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 160 after member 160, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 161a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 162a after Article 162, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 163a after Article 163a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic to Article 164. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to Article 164. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 164a after Article 164, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DVERI group submitted to Article 165 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 165 after article 165a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the DVERI group submitted to Article 166 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 166a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 167a after Article 167a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the DVERI group submitted to Article 168 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 168a after Article 168a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 169 after article 169, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new Member of 170 after article 170, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 171 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 171s after article 171, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 172, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 172, by a new member of 172a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 173rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after article 173 by a new member of 173a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 174 after article 174, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 175th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, to Article 175. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 175 after article 175a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 176 by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 176a after article 176a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 177th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 177a after article 177a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 178 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs LJupka Mihajlovska and Branka Stamenkovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 178a after article 178a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 179, by a new member of the 179th, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 180th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 180, by a new member of 180th, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 181st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 181 by a new member of 181a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 182 by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 182, by a new member of 182a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 183rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after Article 183, was submitted by a new member of 183a, MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic to Article 184. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 184 by a new member of 184a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after article 185, by a new member of 185a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name of Head XI Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic put together the title of the XI amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 187th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov to Article 187. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party have submitted to Article 187 of the amendment, the People's Movement of Serbia I conclude the vote and I declare that there is no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 187th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted the amendment to Article 187. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 187th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 187th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 187th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic to Article 189. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against one, has voted against the abstentions of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic to Article 189. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska to Article 189. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 189th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted the amendment to Article 189. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 191st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 191. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added after article 191 by a new member of 191a, was submitted by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 193rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Marina Ristic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 194. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to article 194. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic to Article 195. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to Article 196. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 197th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 197th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 197 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted the amendment to Article 197. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 197a after Article 197a, was submitted by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomisla LJubenović, Momcilo Mandic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 200th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 200th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 200th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 206th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted the amendment to Article 206. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 206th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 207th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on the basis of the education and education system in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – no one, with abstention – voted nine of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a bill on the basis of an education and education system. We continue to work and move on to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION LAW. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on higher education to the vote, in principle. I'm asking the departments to get the system back online. Please try again. I'll do it again. I put the draft law on higher education to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 132 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Four MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 1st amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and together Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, with a correction, four MPs from the DJB group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by four MPs from the DJB group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Zukorlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for one thing, among the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the DJB group submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club were assigned. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by four MPs of the DJB parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment proposing the addition of titles and new Article 7a after Article 7. National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, proposed after Article 7, to add a new title and a new member of 7a, was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment with the correction was filed by four MPs from the parliamentary group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the MP group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and LJljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Zukorlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 11th amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Dejan Sulkic and Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment with the correction was filed by four MPs from the parliamentary group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 11th amendment with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment with the correction was filed by four MPs from the parliamentary group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 13th amendment, in the same text, the MPs: Dejan Šulkic, together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović, seven MPs of the Dveri group and together Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by four MPs from the MP group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 13 by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together with Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djorđe Vukadinovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs: together with Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together with Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment with the correction was filed by four MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dejan Sulkic and Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together with Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djorđe Vukadinovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together with Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djorđe Vukadinovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 19th amendment in the same text, the MPs together, Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djorđa Vukadinovic, and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th and 20th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 20th amendment with the correction, MP Goran Ciric submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandra Belacic submitted together to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was filed by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the "Enough" group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miroslava Stankovic-Đuričić and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Predrag Jelenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 124 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Filip Stojanovic, Verica Radeta and Sveto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, proposed after Article 23, to add a title and a member of 23a, was submitted by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which after Article 23, proposes adding the title and Article 23a, was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Zukorlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 32nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the amendment of the 32nd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted – 128 of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zika Gojkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the amendment of the 35th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the DJB group submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 128 of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the DJB group submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the DJB group submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the DJB group submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Jesic submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic together submitted the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Please establish a quorum at the request of the head of the SNS Parliament Club. I ask all MPs to insert their cards. I'd like to ask you for a brief break of two, three minutes to call the service and find out if there's anything wrong with the system and then let us inform you of your request when it comes to quorum. I'm asking the MPs to put the cards in the units. We have a quorum. I would like to inform you that 131 MPs are present at the session right now. Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Parliament group "Enough" submitted the amendment to Article 58. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted together to the 59th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Parliament group "Enough" submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Parliament group "Enough" submitted the amendment to Article 62. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Zukorlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Predrag Jelenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 128 of the total attendance of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Parliament group "Enough" submitted to the amendment to Article 63. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, to article 64. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS Group, the NPS, submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 64th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Parliament group "Enough" submitted to Article 64 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic submitted together to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was submitted by five MPs of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 125 out of the total attendance of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 68th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Parliament group "Enough" submitted to the 69th amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Parliament group "Enough" submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 74th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 75th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment proposing to add a title and a new member of 75 after article 75. National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted together to the 78th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 78th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 78th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 81st Amendment were submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 82nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Predrag Jelenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic to article 86. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Predrag Jelenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for eight against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 95th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 96th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 100th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 101st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group submitted the amendment to Article 102. That was enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to Article 103 of the amendment enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, to Article 103. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted the amendment to Article 104. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic to article 104. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 104 by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted the 105th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 105th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 105th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 110 and 110, the amendment with the correction was submitted by five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to Article 112 of the amendment enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to Article 113 of the amendment enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted the amendment to Article 114. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group submitted the amendment to Article 114. That's enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 115 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to Article 116 of the amendment enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted the amendment to Article 118. That's enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 119th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to Article 119 of the correction amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 120th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 120th Amendment with the correction was filed by four MPs from the parliamentary group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to Amendment 121. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group submitted the amendment to Article 122. That was enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to Article 125 of the correction amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, proposed to add a member of 127 after article 127, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to Article 127 of the amendment enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 127th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 127th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 134 by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to Article 135 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Predrag Jelenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 137th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 138th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. On Article 142, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric to Article 143. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric to article 144. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to Article 146 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Seven MPs of the DVERI group submitted to Article 148 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 149 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 149th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. On Article 152 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs submitted: together Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinović and together Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting several amendments to the text of the bill, the situation in Article 165 arose. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely that the adoption of these amendments, led to the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment to bring the amendments adopted to one another, as well as the text of the draft law. Because of that, I'm setting a 10-minute break. I ask that the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately and submit the necessary amendment, i.e. the report. The session of the Committee will be held in Hall II at the House of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-27-0.u21452	I ask the services to participate in our work, to help us finish the session and to pay attention that we have a problem constantly with the electronic voting system. So you don't need to look at screens, you need to do something so we can all be identified. I see the screen, too. Can we get back to work? Have you all identified yourself? Does anyone have any objections? Doesn't someone's credit card work? It's all right. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall. You have been given the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society and the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 134 MPs voted against, there was no one, abstentioned, none, of the 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, in general. It concludes the vote: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on higher education. I'm just asking for a little more patience. We're moving on to decision-making on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marija Janjušević said at a session, at 11 o'clock and six minutes, that he was injured by members 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member. National MP Srdjan Nogo, at a session on September 21st, at 18pm and one minute, pointed to an injury. 106, 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on these injuries. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that those members have not been injured. I'm withdrawing my injuries to the Rules of Procedure, they stayed here in the synopsis, but what do we do? National MP Maja Gojkovic pointed to Article 27's injuries. Rules of Procedure. Please don't decide on the injury, because I pulled it. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. The national envoy, Aleksandra Jerkov, at 11 o'clock and 50 minutes, pointed to an injury on September 25th. 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I find that no one has joined the vote, so there are no injured members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 25 September, at 12 o'clock and two minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on September 25th, at 12 o'clock and five minutes, pointed to an injury by art. 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the specified members are injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there are no injured members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on September 25th, at 12 o'clock and 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 27 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the specified members are injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there are no injured members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on September 25th, at 12 hours and 33 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 25 September, at 13 hours and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on September 25th, at 15 o'clock and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP LJupka Mihajlovska, at a session on September 25th, at 16pm and four minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, at a session on 25 September, at 17 hours and 52 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 26 September, at 18 hours and 17 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Maja Gojkovic, at a session on 26 September, at 20 hours and three minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 162. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Maja Gojkovic, at a session on 26 September, at 20 hours and 11 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 26 September, at 20 hours and 16 minutes, pointed to an injury. 161, 162, 163 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the specified members are injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there are no injured members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Maja Gojkovic, at a session on 26 September, at 20 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tatjana Macura, at a session on 27 September, at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes, pointed to an injury. 158th and 106th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there are no injured members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tatjana Macura, at a session on September 27th, at 11pm and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 158. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Maja Gojkovic, at a session on 27 September 2017, at 11 o'clock and 23 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 47. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please ignore this. I'm closing the vote. No injured member. National MP Tatjana Macura, at a session on 27 September 2017, at 11 o'clock and 30 minutes, pointed to an injury. 106rd and 103rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this. No one voted. No injured member. National MP Tatjana Macura, at a session on 27 September 2017, at 11 o'clock and 37 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this. No one voted. No injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 27 September 2017, at 13 hours and 41 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this. No one's answered. No injured member. National MP Maja Vidinović, at a session on 27 September 2017, at 14 hours and 8 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. No injured member. National MP Tatjana Macura, at a session on 27 September 2017, at 14 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a member's injury. 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 27 September 2017, at 14 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 27 September 2017, at 14 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 27 September 2017, at 16 hours and 1 minute, pointed to a violation of Article 158. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. No one joined the vote. No injured member. Dear People's MPs, thank you for holding on to this. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you.
