ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of Mr Julien Borowczyk's proposal for a law to secure the practice of qualified practitioners outside the European Union (No 1386, 1451).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u3	The purpose of the proposed law is to extend for two years the authorisation of practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union, the PADHUE, in French health institutions. Their authorization to practise is now derogatory and limited in time and space, since they cannot practise as a liberal. It will end on December 31, 2018: so we are debating urgently. This is the fourth time that the legislator has been called upon to extend this derogation since 2007, which naturally raises the question of the establishment of a permanent mechanism for the exercise of these practitioners. Who are the PADHUE? They are foreign practitioners, graduates in their countries of origin, who came to France to respond to significant tensions in the provision of care in our health facilities. They are mainly doctors, dental surgeons, midwives or pharmacists, who have become indispensable in the institutions where they work. They were recruited without full authorization because they did not pass the list A competition, which entitles them to an equivalent degree. Despite the essential role they play in institutions, these health professionals have only temporary authorization to practise. The debates in committee have shown a convergence of all the political groups: this text must be adopted as a matter of urgency in order not to put the services of the institutions where these professionals work or those practitioners themselves in great difficulty. But, everyone agrees, simply extending this arrangement for two years would be insufficient. Thus, in the perspective of the next Health Act, it will be necessary to move from the top of this situation to achieve lasting solutions. The Directorate-General for the Provision of Care has begun this work, which must be accompanied by a consultation of the representatives of these practitioners, in order to better define their status. Hospitals are now employing them as "interns" or as associate contract practitioners. Their working conditions are necessarily affected, as is their remuneration. These professionals, who represent both a pool of human resources and skills, and who respond to a strong need for hospital recruitment, are in precarious situations, even though they provide a public service mission. It will therefore be necessary, once again when we have to legislate on their situation, to incorporate this into our reflections and to propose to them lasting solutions of exercise, in conditions consistent with their competence. It will be time to recognize their dedication, commitment and contribution to maintaining the continuity of care and the quality of health care. The current standard, the review of List C giving the WHMIS full authorization, is, as it stands, unsatisfactory. Since 2017, no examinations have been organised and, where there are, the number of open posts does not correspond to the recruitment needs of health institutions or the number of PADEUs present in the territory. We know that many hospital practitioners will retire in the coming years and that the revision of the numerus clausus will not be able to respond in the very short term to this wave of departures. We must therefore anticipate and facilitate the possibility of recruiting hospital directors and of recognising the qualifications of practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It will therefore be necessary, as soon as our health care system is next reformed, to build a sustainable, stable and robust architecture, enabling these practitioners to operate in much better conditions. Their role, which has become essential, will tomorrow be fundamental, so that these women and men, who have been involved in France for many years, must have access to a recognition worthy of their commitment and their skills.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u4	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u5	Today we are studying the proposal for a law to secure the practice of qualified practitioners outside the European Union. In my report on the integration of foreigners in France, I pointed out the difficulties faced by holders of a foreign health diploma who, once in France, must pass a competition giving access to a limited list of posts in order to finally carry out a three-year probationary period, at the end of which they come before a commission of authorization to practise. While the number of places for asylum practitioners is not limited, I would like to point out that paramedical professional refugees cannot carry out their activities when they arrive in France. In my constituency in Vaureal, I met a Syrian refugee, a nurse, who had to go back three years of study in order to be able to practise his profession, while a simple refresher, particularly on hygiene rules in French hospitals, would suffice. He had already taken almost two years to reach the level of French which allowed him to obtain the competition, these two years having been preceded by two other years for the asylum procedure, during which he had no access to any courses! What a waste of time for this man and for the country! Next year, when he enters the second year, he will no longer be entitled to the RSA, while the Regional Council of Île-de-France, chaired by Valérie Pécresse, refused to grant him a grant for vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u6	I don't see the connection with Valérie Pécresse!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u7	He doesn't even know how he can keep his family alive during his studies. The body of a patient in Syria is the same as in France: the techniques for sewing and taking a blood sample or dressing are identical. I hope that this situation will change as part of the strategy for transforming the care system. Since 2012, the law allows foreign practitioners recruited before August 2010, who have not passed the authorisation procedure – EAP – or who have not been able to access it due to lack of places, to continue to practice as associate practitioners, supervised by a licensed physician, in a public hospital. These experienced doctors, indispensable for the proper functioning of hospitals in our territories, are considered by the administration as second-class doctors. They aspire to be doctors like others, with the same recognition of their skills, the same wages and the same rights. This bill is in the right direction, as it extends the right to exercise these doctors until December 2020, before the next health bill fully integrates them. We must free the country from blockages, blow up the locks of internal protectionism and fully recognize the skills of these foreign practitioners, who are serving patients in our health care system every day. Today, nearly 27,000 foreign doctors are treating our fellow citizens, or 12% of doctors in France. We must put an end to the spirit of rent and corporatism, create complementary channels of access to regulated professions, particularly in the medical and paramedical fields, through competition, examination or validation of experience, and facilitate access by all beneficiaries of international protection to the health professions, after checking their skills through an examination. We must put an end to the downgrading of these talents, who came to live in France and practice their profession at the service of our families, our friends and our neighbours. It is a question of justice, but also of efficiency, for France cannot afford to deprive itself of these talents. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I thank Julien Borowczyk for this bill, which I am proud to vote for. Let us not deprive ourselves of the skills of the talents that come from abroad, but above all welcome them and recognize them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u8	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u9	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u10	My reminder is based on article 58, paragraph 1, concerning the organization and holding of our debates. On Monday evening, the President of the Republic announced measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u11	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u12	There's no "what then?" This subject is very serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u13	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u14	The Prime Minister confirmed these long-awaited measures, including the abolition of the CSG increase for pensioners with a pension of less than EUR 2000. To date, however, we do not know the timing of our Assembly's consideration of these provisions. The PLFSS was finally voted on 3 December.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u15	There will be a conference of presidents!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u16	Don't get mad, Mrs. Bourguignon! Members, their collaborators, group collaborators and all Assembly staff need to know when these measures will be discussed. Madam President, I would like you to refer to the President of the National Assembly, so that we can organize ourselves. "To govern is to foresee": we need this maxim to be imposed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u17	We questioned the minister responsible for relations with Parliament on this point at the Conference of Presidents that took place this morning. The question is obviously burning, but we do not have a precise answer as to when we will be sitting. Everyone would like to avoid the period between Christmas and New Year. The minister is well aware of this, but we have no other information to share with you at this time. I think we will know the timetable quite quickly, in the course of this week or, at the latest, next week.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u18	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u19	Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u20	Madam Secretary of State, your cabinet is aware of the attention I am paying to the question of the PADHUE, and I commend my colleague for having tabled this bill. I would like to denounce the great hypocrisy of the system, especially for practitioners who arrived after 2010. This system is fundamentally ineffective and disrespectful of these practitioners, because it keeps them in a really precarious status and does not pay them to the height of what they bring to France. The mechanism of block regularisation, which comes back very often, is not adapted. As has been said several times, there are two challenges: that of sustainable integration and that of the reform of the recruitment of practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union. I hope – and do not doubt – that we will tackle these two challenges in the coming months. In my department, hospitals hold thanks to Lebanese and Syrian doctors, who arrived in the 1980s thanks to a device that no longer exists. The same doctors, Francophones, trained in universities of excellence such as the American University of Beirut or the University of Saint Joseph, can no longer practise in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u22	You feel the concern that has gained in the provincial hospitals, in the rural territories, at the closure of these recruitments. That's what I wanted to warn you about, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u23	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u24	I will vote for this single article in a spirit of responsibility, because we must not brutally weaken the functioning of certain establishments, such as the Lunéville hospital centre, in my constituency. The lack of short-term solutions and the lack of doctors in our country – my distinguished colleague Jean-Pierre Door mentioned the 2000 to 3000 vacancies in hospitals, especially those located in the periphery – create an urgent need to vote on this bill. However, I regret that, since the considerable progress made between 2007 and 2012, neither the current Government nor the previous one have taken the necessary steps to put an end to this situation. With this third extension, practitioners recruited before 2010 will have temporary status until 2020. We must not only ensure the continuity of the public health service and its accessibility throughout the country, but also ensure its quality. There are talented doctors – I too know Syrian doctors in my department – but checking the mastery of the French language and the necessary skills is essential. It's about health security. How can we not worry about those who failed the exam? If some still do not succeed by 2020, will we regularize them? What about the 3000 to 4000 practitioners recruited since 2010 who are out of control? This does not mean that they do not have the necessary skills or quality, but they should be controlled, and it is up to the State to do so. This would enhance patient confidence across the country. I will propose amendments to better guarantee the quality of care, long awaited by our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u25	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u26	Madam Secretary of State, fortunately Jean-Pierre Door was there a few years ago to draw up a start to regularisation, but you will recognise with us, as Mr Kervran has said very well, that the procedures are temporary and that they remain so. These doctors, who, according to the figures we have, are close to 10,000, are not on the council of the order. Some are competent, as was said earlier, but others are less competent. You have only been Secretary of State for a few weeks and are therefore not responsible for everything, but the problem of medical desertification has been a problem for many years. And it's not the health plan that will solve it. As for the 4000 positions of medical assistants announced, about which we have recently heard from Mrs Buzyn, we still have many questions about them. I come back to the doctors in the text. On large portions of French territory, they hold the emergency. If they were to leave, we would have to collectively accept the risk that whole hospital services would close. We will therefore vote for the text, in a spirit of responsibility. There is no other solution. However, that cannot be the end of it. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to a particular subject. The most competent, whose EAP is validated, must pass through the "public medicine" box for a period of three years before being able to switch to the private sector. Why? On several occasions over the past 18 months, I have written to Mrs Buzyn to alert her on this subject. Why don't we change the procedure? Most of them do not dare to pass the exam, for various reasons. There is a need to support them even more and to ensure that they take advantage of the opportunity offered to them. Among these 10,000 doctors, some are of high quality. Without them, the medical system collapses. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating less than 20 days before the deadline of 31 December. Please, let's anticipate! Let's reorganize the EAP! Let's take advantage of their skills and move them forward! As long as they serve our country, especially with regard to health, we must provide them with a lasting response.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u27	We come to the amendments. Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u28	Extending the authorisation of medical practitioners who have graduated outside the European Union is a commendable project, especially since the proportion of medical deserts on French territory is alarming. However, an extension limited to two years cannot constitute a long-term response. Moreover, the deadline has been extended twice, without success. Far from promoting the professional safety of the staff concerned, the provisions of the text indefinitely postpone the creation of a status of their own. In short, the extension you are proposing, rapporteur, is contrary to the very purpose of your bill. In the department of Vaucluse, the federation of health practitioners has long called for a solution of the problem by means of permanent provisions, distinct from the extension of their authorisation to exercise. Moreover, the Constitutional Council has ruled against such derogation procedures, which do not result in any long-term stable provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u29	Mr Julien Borowczyk, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u30	Most of the speakers we have heard believe that, given the urgency of the situation, the bill is not without interest. It aims to provide a two-year solution. While this is temporary – it will be valid until 31 December 2020 – the urgency is absolute as of 31 December 2018. We all agree, it will be necessary to develop a permanent mechanism, and I can assure you, dear colleague, that we will work on it in the coming months. We'll probably have an opportunity to talk more about it earlier. I am therefore against this deletion amendment. We must renew the authorisation to exercise of the doctors referred to in the text. In addition, you indicate in your summary statement that they should have left the national territory. Some of them, however, are French nationals. As for the invalidation by the Constitutional Council that you refer to, it concerned provisions related to legislative riders. In this case, we are considering a bill, which should legitimately come to fruition when we vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u31	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u32	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to clarify what I said when I presented the text with regard to the work in progress. I will therefore reply to the other amendments on the article. The Government is studying several directions. Our priority will be to secure the process of checking the skills acquired and to improve the conditions for the integration into the French health system of practitioners who have graduated outside the European Union. We want to lay the foundation for a new system that will enable us to ensure the skills available to practitioners working in healthcare facilities, and that will destabilize their functioning as little as possible, which, unfortunately, depends heavily on these doctors. The aim is to create the conditions for the solution of the situation. We wish to continue the collective approach that is already in place. Parliament will be fully involved in the proceedings. They will take into account the situation of these health professionals, who have been involved for several years in the functioning of the health system, in often difficult conditions. The system will have to be demanding and secure in terms of the verification of skills, but also responsible for the future control of the conditions of access to the practice of medicine in France. The Government's opinion on this amendment, as on the following, is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u33	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u34	It deals with the problem of the quality of the training provided by the doctors referred to in the text, and therefore with health safety. Of course, only a minority of them are concerned. The amendment is intended to condition the extension of the exercise authorisation – which is welcome – to the initiation of a validation process. It aims to ensure that there is a sincere approach on both sides.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u35	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u36	We can agree with the assumption that some practitioners have already obtained such validation in their country of origin. In addition, we are talking about people recruited before 2010. They therefore have a form of validation, by force of things, because of the services they have rendered since then. Moreover, it can be imagined that, if the validation of their skills had been a problem, they would probably not have obtained the renewal of their contract. On the merits, you raise a question about the validation process, to which the future health law will not fail to answer. We aim here for doctors hired before 2010, but we must also give a status to those who have failed three times to integrate List A. The bill that we will be debating in the near future – I would remind you that this bill will only provide for a two-year extension – will introduce a personalized course of skills, allowing for the validation of learning and skills under the best conditions and with the possibility of catching up, even if most of the doctors involved are of high quality. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u37	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u38	Mr Bazin, your amendment is intended to limit the temporary extension of authorisation to health professionals who have initiated a validation process. It's inapplicable. Such provisions do not currently exist. Prolonging them doesn't solve the problem. However – I am committed to it – new structural measures to validate knowledge and skills will be incorporated into the health bill in preparation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u39	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u40	Madam Secretary of State, I trust you. However, trust does not exclude control. We will evaluate the announced scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u41	You can even amend it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u42	In a spirit of responsibility, I withdraw the amendment. I understand that the text must be voted on in order for it to enter into force very quickly and I hope that we will adopt these emergency measures. The expectations of our fellow citizens are no less strong in terms of quality of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u43	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u44	I wasn't planning on taking the floor. However, I mentioned the subject earlier with the rapporteur, who fully agrees with me. As far as most practitioners who have graduated outside the European Union working in our hospitals – especially the small ones – are concerned, the question arises in these terms: they take a part in responsibility, because they are on guard or on guard for sometimes difficult specialties, such as cardiology or surgery. However, one cannot leave a hospital service under the responsibility of a practitioner whose competence is not always excellent. Nevertheless, some hospital managers hire them because they need them. Without them, the service concerned does not work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u45	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u46	In the future, it will be necessary to ensure that hospital directors hiring a practitioner whose validation is not acquired make a commitment that the practitioner will pass the examinations to do so. Most of them don't pass them. They do not go to Strasbourg – from now on to Paris – to pass the exam and practice ostrich politics. This issue will need to be addressed without delay, for example when considering the health bill. Hospital managers hiring practitioners whose validation is not acquired must sign a contract that commits them to remedy it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u47	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u48	I agree with the comments made by our two colleagues. Madam Secretary of State, I understand that you are considering changing the way in which the EAP will be proposed to the physicians we are talking about. Some hospital managers – I experienced it last summer – learn at 16:00 that they lack an emergency worker, who cannot come for various reasons. Then come the mercenaries. Moreover, they are paid at rates that do not comply with the decrees made by your predecessors. I can quote a number of examples. As Jean-Pierre Door pointed out, one cannot always be certain of the quality of the care they provide. Some are very competent, others are not. That they present themselves is a good thing, and they exercise under the responsibility of another practitioner. However, safety is often referred to. As regards doctors whose quality is not fully assured, it seems to me important that they sign a commitment to ensure that they will strengthen their skills. Moreover, they sign precarious employment contracts for a period of 24 hours, 48 hours, one week or three months. In any case, no other system is possible. Whatever changes are made to the organization of the care system, we have no other resources. We don't have any other doctors who can run our hospitals – let's not tell stories, you know as well as I do! [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie applauds]] This is an essential subject. In the absence of a written commitment, they will not pass the exam and will not be able to master certain acquired skills. Therefore, the quality – which is on all lips in terms of health – will not be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u49	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u50	It is intended to prohibit the granting of an extension of authorisation to practitioners who have been excluded or prohibited from practising in a health facility because of a manifest failure to master medical knowledge and procedures. Of course, it is a minority. However, it is necessary to avoid poor mercenaries being expelled...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u51	"Poor mercenaries"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u52	This is a reality that has been observed and which I have received testimony about. If practitioners are driven out of a hospital for lack of skills, it is even dangerous for them to take advantage of the shortage of doctors and the vacancy in other territories. The hospital director, unaware of their past failures, will experience the same inconveniences as his colleagues. The aim is to provide the extension of the authorization with a guard in order to ensure health safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u53	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u54	I understand that this question is being raised. However, this issue will be addressed in the context of the reforms we will be presenting very soon, in the first months of 2019. We will have to be able to deal with this issue. In the case of a doctor who has been banned from exercising, it goes without saying that he will not be able to obtain a validation. In this case, the question does not arise. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable. To return to the previous debate, we will have to adopt a mechanism – to reassure you, ladies and gentlemen, because we have already discussed it – to retain List A as the only way to access the practice of medicine without creating a new "pocket" of waiting, if you pass the phrase. Some hospital directors hire not practitioners who obtained their C-list authorization prior to 2010, but rather people who previously acted as interns. Several speakers recalled – and I myself have seen it in hospitals – that some of the in-house speakers are in an unbearable situation. If they can be older, they're not always older. Their situation is very complex to manage. The future reform should therefore make it possible to validate the achievements safely through the introduction of an individualised path and, at the same time, ensure that a practitioner who has failed three times to integrate List A can continue to exercise. It will also have to provide for a commitment to take the test to be placed on List A to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u55	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u56	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u57	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u58	Again in a spirit of responsibility, since the correct text must be voted on, I withdraw the amendment. However, I would like to draw your attention to the case of the people who are causing problems – again, I am not talking here about the talented Syrian doctors who were mentioned earlier, but about the people who abuse, the poor mercenaries. When these people posed a problem, since their status was precarious, since they were "out of the system," they were simply asked to leave. Information is not shared between hospital managers; There's no blacklist! However, managers have to make up for the shortcomings, often in an emergency; When someone is ready to work, they tend to trust him. Regional health agencies – ARS – and hospital managers must, without creating a file, be vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u59	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u60	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u61	Practitioners who graduated outside the European Union have become a variable for adjusting our hospital system, not only because of budgetary constraints, but also because of the lack of vocations and the involvement of French graduates. This is partly due to internal contradictions, such as the scandalous practice of the 20% liberal activity authorized in the hospital for its own doctors. Feeding a two-speed health, moving doctors away from their primary mission, this practice does not seem right or appropriate to our times. Therefore, we wish to put an end to it. I come back for a moment to the previous amendment: Madam Secretary of State, we will also have to take care, in future legislative work, of the case of non-European doctors who lose their jobs because they have not followed one of these protocols which, all doctors know, are multiplying in the hospital. However, the protocols are not necessarily the same in Syria and France. Some doctors are thanked while the patient has not been ill-treated, and has even been treated, even if he has not been treated according to the French protocol.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u62	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u63	You describe a situation in public hospitals where doctors would be devalued, decommitted. For being external and internal, I can tell you that I saw people passionate about what they were doing; The hospital-university career is nevertheless interesting in many respects, especially for research. With regard to the practice you describe, which in fact provides an income supplement, it is limited to 20% of the activity: we still need to relativize; 80% of regular hospital activity remains. As far as your amendment is concerned, PADHUE does not in any case have the right to engage in any liberal activity in France. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u64	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u65	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u66	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u67	As an introductory remark, I would like to say that, since all the groups which have announced in the general debate their intention to vote on this text, while we are trying to build confidence and progress, and because amendments have been withdrawn, it seems to me that it is not extremely elegant on the part of the majority group to ask for a public vote. It's not a big deal, of course. Madam Secretary of State, on the EAP, you have not answered me. Once you have been on list A, you have to practice in the hospital for three years: it is an obstacle, experienced as such in everyday life. As we try to blow up the barriers between the public and the private sector, it seems to me that opening bridges would be a good thing. Moreover, Mr Bazin said: some doctors validate their experience; Others fail, several times, and in this case they must not be regularized! It's not because you try to get good... Minister, you are well aware of the issue of the National Management Centre – CNG – on which the department has its hands: it is a kind of basket where everyone who has done big mistakes is put, and who is brought back to the department. In my city, we paid some of those people, who had no assignment, for ten years! They were simply incompetent. The new validation system will have to incorporate all these criteria. Otherwise, we're going in the wall! Finally, it seems to me a pity that not all these doctors are registered in the Order's Council. They are in nature; But it would be good if we knew where they practiced. Some do not respect, in spite of themselves, the basic rules of labour law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u68	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u69	Since we rarely speak of the code of public health in the Chamber, we have taken advantage of this text to propose that the liberal exercise be abolished in the hospital. But, rapporteur, do not distort my remarks: I am the first to say that hospitals are held by the benevolence of all caregivers, including doctors. Fortunately, they don't count their hours! Don't make me say what I didn't say.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u70	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u71	Mr rapporteur, we agree at least on one point: it is not possible to extend the authorisation of practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union without considering creating a statute for them. I understand that this text is intended to respond to an emergency: that of the departure of a generation of doctors, since by 2020 almost 30% of our hospital practitioners will have to retire. Nearly 12,500 posts will be vacant. The urgency was also medical desertification, which should be one of the Government's primary concerns. My amendment seeks to establish a statute for these practitioners with a diploma outside the European Union. I proposed, in an amendment deemed inadmissible, to open competitions for them. I propose here to give them access to a qualification scale placed under the supervision of the National Council of the Order of Physicians, pending the arrival of the new doctors who will be allowed by the opening of the numerus clausus.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u72	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u73	With regard to the number of open posts, our logic is not to set it in law. The numbers are moving, and they vary according to the specialties. As far as your proposal is concerned, the management of such a statute would not be a matter for the Order Council. Ordinal registration is neither an exam nor a competition. Unfavorable opinion. But we come back to the question of the validation of the acquis. Mr Vigier, in the new validation modalities, there will be an evaluation over time, but it will not necessarily last three years. See, I'm answering you...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u74	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u75	[[Smile]] At the end of the year, I would like to thank the services of the National Assembly who helped me rectify the amendment so that it could be accepted. I don't want to shock anyone, but it must be recognized that not all medical degrees in the world are worth it. It is objective: the requirements, the duration of the teaching, the content differ. We all have an interest in increasing medical knowledge and improving the quality of care for all practitioners around the world. That is why the amendment calls on the Government to report on the possibility of establishing partnerships with some countries to ensure the quality of training for these future doctors who would like to come to work in our country in understaffed specialties. I learned with interest earlier that it concerned many Beninese doctors: it would seem to me that our development policy supports the development of medical knowledge by proposing such partnerships.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u77	[[Smile]] I too thank the administrators who helped Mr. Bazin. I understand your intention. But would it not be reducing to create partnerships with some countries and not with others? To create a kind of pre-entry route to France in a few countries, while we would immediately exclude students from countries that would not benefit from such agreements, would seem counterproductive to me. Today, we are thinking of a device in which listing A would be the only way. This seems to us to be the best selection system. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u79	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u80	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u81	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u82	[[Smile]] How elegant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u83	I will now put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u84	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 58 Number of votes cast 57 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 56 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u85	The next item is the debate on the bill adopted by the Senate on the reform of the Caisse des Français de l'étranger (No. 631, 1459).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u86	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u87	The purpose of the bill we are considering is to reform in depth the Caisse des Français de l'étranger, which represents social security for our fellow citizens living abroad. The aim of this text is to adapt the CFE to the current challenges, by reviewing the content and presentation of the proposed guarantees, as well as the governance of the caisse. Indeed, if, for almost forty years, the CFE has established itself as a reference, the legal framework in which it acts today is dated and does not allow to respond adequately to the expectations of a French community abroad whose needs have changed. First of all, as you pointed out, Madam rapporteur, in your recent report on the international mobility of the French, the expectations of the French abroad in terms of social security cover are strong, especially when they are established outside the European Union. According to a recent barometer on the social protection of expatriates, 75 per cent of the French foreigners interviewed consider it important to maintain a link with the French social protection system, and almost half of them state that social protection, including access to care, is one of the most missing abroad. This demand comes from a French community abroad that continues to grow rapidly. Today, nearly 1.8 million French are registered in the French register established outside France. Between 2 and 2.5 million French would be settled outside our territory, permanently or almost permanently. In order to guarantee the mobility of French and French people, as well as the continuity of their social protection, we now have two tools: firstly – but I will not dwell on this possibility – the bilateral social security agreements concluded by France, and the European coordination regulations; Secondly, the CFE and the guarantees it offers. These guarantees, which may complement coordination in the event of insufficient local coverage, are sometimes the only choice for the expatriate, for lack of agreement with France. However, the responses currently provided by the caisse have been designed in a context different from today's, and are no longer appropriate. In particular, the health supply is complex and unreadable, and guarantees are often perceived as too limited, despite high contributions. The CFE must therefore be modernised to take into account the expectations of our compatriots living outside France. The developments proposed today should improve the social protection of our expatriate compatriots on several fronts, guaranteeing in particular a better readability of the guarantees through a clearer offer; a renewed fee schedule for health coverage and more adapted health care abroad; the possibility of partnering with brokers and insurers, while maintaining support for French social protection. I do not forget the aspect of governance, which the adjustments envisaged today will contribute to the good representation of the French abroad on the Board of Directors of the CFE and to the respect of the principle of parity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These developments will make it possible to better meet the expectations of our fellow citizens and will therefore receive our full support. The Senate's drafting is the subject of broad consensus on the benches of this assembly. The Government shares this general assessment and agrees with the Social Affairs Committee that the text can be adopted as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u88	Mrs Anne Genetet, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u89	In these difficult times, I wanted to associate my colleague Thierry Michels, who, as a group coordinator, should have spoken this evening in the general discussion, but who is with the victims in Strasbourg. By greeting him, I would like to give him my full support. Despite the turbulent times I mentioned, I wanted to begin my remarks by announcing to you a happy event, one of those events that we all appreciate on these benches and in the country. It just happened a few weeks ago, not in France, but in Bangkok, where Véronique, a French citizen, our compatriot, gave birth to his first child. The second good news is that Véronique is a member of the Caisse des Français de l'étranger. And the third good news is that, thanks to this affiliation, his delivery cost him nothing. Véronique had been affiliated with the CFE by the Thai subsidiary of its French company. On the other hand, her friend Nathalie didn't get that chance. Although she also recently gave birth, she did not have access to the services of the CFE because she is employed by a Thai company, under local contract. Nathalie had to pay herself the costs of her delivery in Bangkok, i.e. more than 3000 euros. The subject of the CFE came back very often and very quickly after my election. As the Secretary of State mentioned, I have received a considerable number of e-mails, as well as continuous calls on social networks, on the ground or during my virtual permanences in my live Facebook. The CFE is also the story of Jean-Louis, a retired Frenchman in Thailand, who has suffered from heart disease for many years. In France, this long-term condition would allow a health insurance member to receive 100% coverage. This is also the case, in Thailand, for a member of the CFE because, as in France, the fund takes care of the care related to the condition. It goes even further, by reimbursing all the care, whether or not they are related to this pathology. This is a very important element, which will be maintained. Jean-Louis is therefore very satisfied with the services of the CFE. Nevertheless, the Committee is concerned about this reform, including the increase in its contribution. So here are some explanations to understand the reasons for these changes. First of all, with regard to its status and missions, the CFE is a social security fund reserved for French residents abroad. The CFE, an unidentified institutional object, is not entirely a primary health insurance fund or a private insurer, but a private body entrusted with a public service mission, managed directly by the persons concerned, namely its members and the elected representatives who represent them in the Assembly of French Foreigners. Its public service mission is first of all to cover the three risks: illness, maternity and disability; accidents at work and occupational diseases; Social security pension administered by the National Old Age Insurance Fund. And that, without condition of age or health. No other private insurer offers it. This is why the CFE is not a private insurer. But her public service mission also leads her to be accessible to the poorest. This mission will be maintained. As far as the rationale for the CFE is concerned, we must return to its creation in 1984. At the time, it was a matter of meeting the needs of French companies, which wanted to ensure the continuity of our social protection system to their expatriate employees. His offer was therefore calibrated for employees of French companies, rather large, who sent their staff for a few years in expatriation. Today, the profile of French leavers has changed considerably: there are many fewer large companies, many more very small companies or small and medium-sized enterprises – we must rejoice for our foreign trade – researchers, students, pensioners, entrepreneurs, and much longer stays. The report I recently presented referred to a stay of 17 years, on average, far from the cliché of the expat's senior manager of a multinational company. The CFE's offer, which became totally inadequate and too expensive for individual memberships, gradually led to a decrease in the number of members, accompanied by an anti-selection with fewer and fewer employees from large French companies, and by increasingly older profiles. In the more or less long term, its sustainability was threatened. Yet, ladies and gentlemen, the CFE is a chance, an exceptional asset for our communities around the world: it is also an opportunity for all our compatriots, who, in your constituencies, may be preparing to go on a professional adventure abroad. I count on you to tell them about the CFE, encourage them to register and guarantee them this continuity of social protection, and a much easier return to France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u90	What about the CSG?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u91	The contributions add up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u92	That's another subject, which I could talk to you about for a long time, because I know him well, too. But I don't think that's going to happen tonight. In this declining context, it had become imperative to find a new economic and social model. I would like to stress here how this model was built, which I think is very interesting. It is indeed the result of the upsurge and analysis of the leadership of the CFE. These observations were first translated into a bill tabled by a group of socialist senators in 2015, and then completely rewritten in 2018 with all the political groups in the Senate, to simplify their reading. It was finally voted unanimously by our fellow senators at the beginning of the year. This is therefore a long and fruitful work of co-construction, which leads to a balanced and, above all, highly anticipated project. It is therefore up to us, Members, to validate this progress in order to allow our compatriots to leave or already established abroad, to be able to benefit from a suitable, competitive, affordable and simple social protection offer. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote for this reform, which I hope will be the subject of a unanimous vote, as in the Senate. This reform is an indispensable first step towards the creation of the CFE of the 21st century, a more modern CFE, better responding to the changing needs and expectations of French people in international mobility. By voting for this reform, you will allow the modernisation of the offer, by defining a new simplified contribution scheme and by unifying the method of calculating the contributions of the different categories of insured persons. You will also allow the modernisation of the governance of the CFE, which will remove the distinction between categories of insured persons' representatives on the board of directors and, I stress, by introducing gender parity on the board of directors. By voting on this reform, ladies and gentlemen, you will confirm the recommendations made by the Inspectorate General of Finance and the Inspectorate General of Social Affairs, which, as early as July 2015, had proposed a transformation of the CFE, while recommending not to make it a private insurance body – a recommendation that this bill followed. In addition, you will allow more of our compatriots access to social protection. Believe me, the French who live outside France without any protection, far more than you suspect, are often confronted with inextricable situations, when they are not insured. The renovated CFE is also for them. By voting for this reform, finally, you support all of our communities abroad and, with them, our talents, our exporting companies, our trade balance, our researchers, our students, and, finally, our French influence in the world. [[Mr. Meyer Habib applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, like the Senate, I therefore invite you to vote unanimously on this bill by the political groups. Nearly 3 million French people living outside France, especially the most modest of them, will thank you. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to conclude my remarks with a quote from Victor Hugo, who perfectly sums up the CFE of the 21st century: "Brotherhood is only a human idea, solidarity is a universal idea. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u93	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Pierre Door spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u94	The bill adopted by the Senate on February 1st aims to reform the Caisse des Français de l'étranger, created in 1984 in order to ensure solidarity with the French established outside France. It has two chapters on improving its commercial supply and reforming its governance. By June 2015, a first reform of the Fund had been envisaged, but it had not been possible. The text of the proposal before us was rewritten earlier this year by the Senate Committee on Social Affairs in a spirit of collaboration with all the groups and in connection with the management of the Caisse des Français de l'étranger. In addition, the Commission has carried out a substantial reorganization of the title of the social security code for French residents abroad. It is therefore a consensus text, adopted unanimously with the support of the Government. The Caisse des Français de l'étranger – CFE – is a voluntary social security fund governed by the Social Security Code. Its mission is to provide French expatriates with continuity of their social security coverage. The CFE covers three risks: sickness, maternity, disability; accidents at work and occupational diseases; old age. Membership is open to all expatriates: employees, self-employed, inactive, students, pensioners. The Fund is subject to an obligation of balance and its resources are derived solely from the contributions of its members. It is subject to competition from other private insurers. The CFE largely transposes the rules governing the management of French social security, with some adaptations. Thus, the rules of membership of the CFE take over the various statutes of social security – wage earner, self-employed, student, retired, inactive – with their specificities. The same applies to the rules governing care, notwithstanding the complexity of transposing these rules abroad. For many years, the growth of the CFE has been based on supporting the international development of enterprises in the context of globalization. The Caisse has also supported a growing number of French people who are expatriating individually – young people looking for a first job, pensioners, entrepreneurs trying a new adventure in the middle of a career; This model, which transposes our social protection system abroad, particularly in the field of health insurance, has gradually found its limits for various reasons: cases of traditional expatriation have decreased, as companies are increasingly recruiting locally; Attractiveness for young people has declined due to low competitive rates; tariff schedules have become inadequate; care arrangements are not legible; It is difficult to have a network of care to offer the paying third party. These difficulties have resulted in a decline in the number of members of the CFE, which will eventually lead to a predictable deterioration of finances – which are still sound to date. As of December 31, 2016, the CFE had 100,000 members, while 2.5 million French people live abroad. According to a survey you mentioned, Madam Secretary of State, three-quarters of French foreigners consider it important to maintain a link with social security, while half of them state that French social security is lacking abroad. Paradoxically, some French people are trying to get out of the French social security system. It was therefore necessary to find a way to avoid haemorrhage of members of the CFE. Modernisation was therefore necessary in order to adapt to the current forms of expatriation. The scheme is thus completely reorganised, since we now reason in terms of the risks covered and not by category of insured persons. A new tariff offer should replace the old one. The lower management costs of the fund may be reflected in contributions. Coverage arrangements are improved. Adjustments are made to the composition of the Board of Directors. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir and LaREM groups]] The Republican Group believes that this is a necessary and welcome reform, drawn up in a consensual way for the benefit of our compatriots. We will therefore vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u95	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u96	We are still looking at a text that we are wondering whether it is appropriate to include it on the agenda rather than to discuss the social situation in our country. The Caisse des Français de l'étrangère was established in 1978 to cover all the risks covered by the French social security system for our compatriots who went to live abroad. But it is a very special system, because we must join it voluntarily where our social security system automatically benefits all contributors in France. In addition, the CFE supports the social security systems of the countries of residence and is managed by representatives of the French abroad. The proposed law provides for the privatization of the social security system of French foreigners, the granting of a commercial vocation to the CFE and even the integration of insured persons of other nationalities. This is not our conception of social protection, you know. We have struggled on foot against you, since our arrival in this House, to defend a real social security that does not leave the private share, because it has only one purpose: to make money, to make profits. Health is not a commodity, so it does not have to be delivered to markets, laboratories and private mutuals. Shareholders are enjoying themselves pretty much elsewhere. To reform the CFE, two solutions are emerging: first, we could state the Fund, like state medical aid. Our compatriots living abroad are often supported by the State through our embassies and consulates. Thus, it does not seem absurd that the social security of French foreigners is also provided by the State. Secondly, and this is the solution that has my preference, we could integrate the CFE into French social security. This fund would therefore be financed by social and employers' contributions. If the cost was too high, you could use our idea of a shareholder solidarity contribution to find the necessary money. Unfortunately, the rules on the admissibility of amendments have once again prevented us from proposing this great progress for our compatriots. In both cases, you understand, it is out of the question for us to brade the health of the French and French, even though they would live abroad, and the social security system that ensures it. For, ladies and gentlemen, we know the intentions of the Government with regard to social security: to unblock everything, to deconstruct everything and to entrust everything to the private sector. We had a demonstration of this when you tried a few months ago to remove the reference to social security in the Constitution and replace it with the vague notion of social protection. Luckily, we saw you coming and the mobilization drove you back. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, both because the content of this bill does not suit us and because it could be a test ball for the future dismantling of social security, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u97	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u98	The Caisse des Français de l'étranger is an organization entrusted with a public service mission and designed as an extension of French social security for persons who carry out part of their career abroad, most often in the framework of expatriation contracts which involve the taking over of social protection by the company and a scheduled return to France. The mission of the CFE is to provide French expatriate employees with continuity of their social security coverage. Expatriates are free to join the CFE, which operates only through membership fees. This model needs to be adapted to the latest developments. The decline in the number of insured persons linked to the increase in the number of local contract recruitments in the host country and the concomitant decrease in traditional expatriation missions should be taken into account. Indeed, after a three-year French expatriate contract renewed once, employers often offer employees to enter into a local contract. The development of local contracts, with lower salaries and benefits than those granted in France, does not always allow expatriates to secure with the CFE. In addition, a number of French nationals are no longer necessarily linked to a French company: they may be employed by a French company, but subject to local law; They may also be self-employed or retired. I commend the work of senators, on the initiative of the Socialist Group, as well as the work of our rapporteur and the passion she has put on the subject. The first challenge of the bill we are considering is to simplify a system that has become more complex since its inception – it has many tariff regimes depending on the different categories of insured persons; There are currently 600 different rates. The explosion in the number of tariff regimes has made the CFE's offer unreadable and has weakened the institution, while it is already subject to strong competition from foreign private supplements. At the same time, the system's malfunctions and inconsistencies have degraded the Fund's image. The second issue concerns compliance with European law. So far, only French could be affiliated with the Caisse. It is therefore necessary to strengthen this regime. In order to do this, it is planned to extend membership of the CFE to European citizens, which seems to be a good thing. But the image of the CFE is so degraded that it is essential to restore confidence in the first place. Secondly, it is proposed to harmonise the method of calculating contributions between the different statutes of the members, whether they are employees, self-employed or retired. In view of the lack of legibility of the 600 tariff regimes, this seems essential. The Senate Committee on Social Affairs, seeking general agreement in order to achieve the best possible solution, proposed that the scheme should be completely reorganised, not by categories of insured persons, but in terms of the risks covered. With regard to benefits reimbursed abroad by the CFE, it is useful for expatriates to be able to know, prior to any consultation or operation, the level of care provided by the Fund. Finally, with regard to governance, we note with satisfaction the application of gender parity in the compilation of lists. I would now like to make a few more general remarks, because we must not lose sight of the fact that the text before us today refers to the need to harmonise the social protection rules between the various Member States of the European Union from the top. There is an urgent need to tackle the social dumping which puts European workers in competition, at the cost of deteriorating working conditions, constantly rising wages and weakened rights. The European Commission voted last year for a European Pillar of Social Rights, which affirms the urgent need for harmonised social protection at European level. It may be positive to establish a common basis of social rights for all European workers in order to put an end to the social optimisation that multinational companies are engaging in, just as it is necessary to fight fiscal optimisation. This foundation can be a good thing if it is a floor and not a lowered standard, if it is intended to protect acquired rights and if it encourages social progress. Subject to these remarks, we support the objectives of this bill, which reaffirms a public offer of social protection for the French abroad and aims to improve the service rendered to the members. As a result, Members of the GDR Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u99	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u100	Between 2 and 3 million, it is about the number of our fellow citizens who have made the choice to live abroad, to embark on the experience of expatriation. This choice of life must not, for these 3 million French, be an additional obstacle to their access to care and national solidarity. We must therefore ensure that such access is guaranteed to them under the best possible conditions. To the extent that the provision of care for foreign countries is not within our competence, we have one lever: to ensure that our expatriates can protect themselves against risks, including illness, accidents and old age. Leaving to live elsewhere, in a country that is sometimes unknown, is already an adventure that can be a source of difficulties. It requires an understanding of a new culture, a new language sometimes, but also, and above all, a new social and health system. The Caisse des Français de l'étranger was created with this in mind: to be a support for those who leave and a real extension of social security abroad. Since its creation, the CFE has continuously evolved and adapted to new forms of expatriation. Initially reserved for employees, it gradually extended its interventions to other categories of members – the self-employed, pensioners, students – and diversified its offer to include other risks such as old age and maternity. Even today, the CFE needs to modernize, to update its offer and how it works to meet the new realities. It is our duty to provide the best possible support for the reform of the CFE, so that it is as appropriate as possible and that it best represents its members. In the Liberties and Territories Group, as you know, we have made equal access to care a central pillar of our commitment. Whether they reside in France or elsewhere, our citizens must be able to claim the same conditions when it comes to their health, and we must have the same concerns about this. As a representative of French people living outside France, I am particularly concerned about the possibility for them to benefit from social security coverage at least as effective as the one we guarantee in our territory. All the more so since, as you know, we cancelled during the examination of the last draft law on the financing of social security, in order to comply with European law, the payment of the CSG and the CRDS by the French abroad living in the European Union – we discussed this point with the rapporteur of the text, Mrs Anne Genetet. As a result, French foreigners residing outside the European Union suffer a form of gross inequality: they are still subject to both contributions, even though they do not benefit from social security. It's a breach of equality and a real scandal! To return to the CFE, I have already informed you, during our discussions in committee, of the many requests that I receive every day. I am regularly asked about delays or lack of reimbursement, but also for simplified procedures, in particular dematerialised ones. All these criticisms are justified: repayment deadlines are long; on-line services, insufficient; the number of supporting documents requested, very high; changes in the situation, including the transition to retirement, which are very complex to manage. The director of the caisse, Laurent Gallet, whom I have had the pleasure of meeting on several occasions, himself acknowledges the challenges that must be faced. In short, it is time to reform the Caisse des Français de l'étranger. So it was with enthusiasm that I welcomed the bill that was introduced in the Senate in May 2017 and that I saw it passed last February. I am particularly pleased that the text we are studying today is the result of a joint work of parliamentarians, beyond the political lines, with the assistance of the administrators of the CFE and the Directorate of Social Security. Expatriation has changed face, and it is necessary to take these developments into account. Indeed, the volume of CFE members coming from companies is decreasing, as they recruit much more often in local contracts. At the same time, more and more French people are leaving abroad: pensioners, young people looking for work, entrepreneurs. However, not everyone is necessarily aware of the need to make sure. As membership in the CFE is not mandatory, it must be made known to its potential customers and offer products and services that meet the expectations and needs of these different populations. This is all the more necessary in view of the fact that the fund is in competition with other insurance bodies. Nevertheless, the CFE has advantages which the other mutuals and insurers do not have, since it allows rights to continue with the French system, to leave abroad and to return from expatriation. If we want the EFC to be more efficient, in accordance with the wishes of its board of directors, but also of its members themselves, we must first renew the tariff offer, so far too illegible, and simplify the contribution scheme. I therefore welcome the provisions proposed in the articles of Chapter I, in particular the additions made by the Social Affairs Committee of the Senate. As a result, the ascendants will now be fully insured, instead of being included in the list of entitled persons. The problem of the so-called illusibility will be solved in part by the unification of the method of calculating the sickness-maternity-invalidity contribution for all categories of members, depending on their age group and the composition of their household. Thus one will move from a logic of categories of adherents to a logic of covered risks. This text makes at least two further improvements. On the one hand, it is an opportunity to bring us into line with Community law: the possibility of joining the Caisse des Français de l'étranger will be extended to European citizens. On the other hand, it was more than essential that members be reimbursed on the basis of the cost of care in the country in which they live. Currently, the CFE reimburses on the basis of the rules of the French system and on the basis of rates applied in our territory, which does not allow to indicate to the customer in advance its rate of support. It should also be noted that some rates are much higher abroad. If we want to be consistent with our willingness to adapt, we must remedy this situation, which appears totally disconnected from reality. The expected simplification and adaptation effort will therefore be achieved through Chapter I. Secondly, we need to reform the governance of the CFE, which goes hand in hand with our desire for modernization. This is the subject of Chapter II. Indeed, if we want to adapt to the new forms of expatriation, we must ensure that those who live in it are represented. Articles 23 to 25 will satisfy this need for increased representativeness: parity will be introduced in the constitution of lists of candidates for the election of representatives of insured persons; a new category of directors representing the network of French chambers of commerce and industry abroad will appear on the board of directors; the electoral base of insured persons' representatives will be expanded to include all consular advisers and delegates. We can only welcome these initiatives, which, again, are in the direction of greater adaptation to the realities experienced by insured persons. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As a representative of French people living outside France and a member of a group committed to ensuring fair and equal social protection for all our citizens throughout the country and outside it, I very much welcome the reform of the Caisse des Français de l'étranger as proposed today. It will satisfy the expressed desires of modernization and simplification and allow us to accompany our fellow citizens as best we can, so that the experience of expatriation is as good as possible. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u101	Mrs Corinne Vignon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u102	First of all, I would like to give my support to my colleague Thierry Michels, who was supposed to be in the place I occupy at this moment, but who joined the inhabitants of Strasbourg, for the reasons you know. The proposal for a law on the reform of the Caisse des Français de l'étrangère, which we are considering this evening, is a fair and sensible reform, which will, I am sure, facilitate the administrative procedures of expatriates. This text, which emerged from a joint work of the various parliamentary groups, in collaboration with the administrators of the CFE and the Directorate of Social Security, was also inspired by field work. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague Anne Genetet, on the work she has done on this text and in the previous months, in the context of her parliamentary mission. I happen to have lived abroad for ten years in Costa Rica. Unfortunately, I did not have the CFE, and I lost a few years of retirement. I am therefore particularly interested in this subject! Our majority is aware of the concerns of our citizens living abroad, regarding taxation, the simplification of access to social benefits or – this is the issue we are dealing with this evening – access to social security benefits in connection with the Caisse des Français de l'étranger. Currently, more than 3 million French people live outside our country. They have a variety of profiles: students, pensioners, employees, self-employed or members of a binational family. These ambassadors of France are a major asset in our diplomacy of influence abroad. As the first players of the French footprint in the world, they play a decisive role in the influence of our country and its culture in the broadest sense. However, when they choose to continue their lives abroad, our compatriots face a series of difficulties. In particular, they wish to be able to benefit from quality health insurance or continuity of their pension contributions. To date, they have three options. The first is to be satisfied with the social security of their new country of residence. This option is entirely possible if such social security is of a satisfactory level. This is the case in some countries, but not in others. The second option is to use private insurance, which is often costly. In the area of retirement, this means funded systems and savings. We lose continuity with the French system, in which we began to contribute. The third option is to use the assurances offered by the CFE. It offers health insurance, occupational accident insurance and occupational diseases, and pension insurance. These covers have the advantage of being fully coordinated with those of compulsory social security in France, which avoids loss of rights. It should be recalled that the CFE was created in 1984 to allow companies to provide their expatriate employees with extensive social security coverage. Today, we see that this system is completely obsolete. The French who expatriate present various profiles; They are not necessarily linked to a company, since they can be students, self-employed or retired. The finding is without appeal. The CFE's offer is no longer suitable and is stumbling into many difficulties: with more than 600 different rates, it is too complex; too few young members contribute; management costs are too high; It is not possible to join foreign spouses who work in the host country, etc. New generations are citizens of the world. It is therefore essential to facilitate the mobility of our compatriots internationally while ensuring their health insurance and the maintenance of their pension rights. The aim of the CFE is to guarantee to our citizens the continuity of the social protection system constituted by the general social security system as long as they cross the borders of France. It must be in their image and adapt to new profiles. With this reform, our aim is to allow as many of them as possible to remain in a French health care system while abroad and to facilitate their possible return to our country. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, this bill is excellent, because it aims to prepare the future of the CFE and its members while pragmatically resolving the difficulties facing the caisse, thus allowing the continuation and consolidation of its missions for the benefit of our compatriots. A consistent vote is essential if this long-awaited reform is to be implemented. So the La République en Marche group will vote for this text as it stands, with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u103	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u104	Many of the elements on which I will come back have already been mentioned. It was expected that I would speak first in this general discussion. However, I wanted to leave this place to Mr. Door, who has to take a hundred and fifty kilometers to return home. Perhaps I will recall in this speech some of the elements that have already been pointed out, but, for once we look at a text that is about consensual, it is a pleasure to defend it. I regret that our colleague does not vote for it. The Caisse des Français de l'étranger was created by the law of 13 July 1984 at the initiative of the senators – until 2012, there were no deputies representing the French established outside France – in particular Mr.Jean-Pierre Cantegrit, who chaired its board of directors from its inception until 2015. It was conceived as an extension of the French social security system for persons carrying out part of their careers outside our borders, most often under expatriation contracts, with the company taking over social protection and a scheduled return to France. Since the renewal of its board of directors in 2015, it is the excellent Alain-Pierre Mignon who presides over its destinies with dynamism and talent. His diagnosis and his plans for the CFE are at the origin of the bill we are considering. Today, there are 1.8 million French registered on the consular electoral lists, but it is estimated that between 2.5 and 3 million French people make France shine abroad. Of these, 200000 are members of the Caisse des Français de l'étranger, or just 8%. As a result, the CFE has a problem of attractiveness. While the number of insured persons has decreased year after year since 2014, the rate of membership has been very low, particularly among young people, as the rapporteur pointed out. In addition to this, there are significant changes in the profile of expatriates, as well as in their conditions of expatriation. The classic profile of the expatriate changes. It is not the same as working in a large group or administration, now a minority, and being retired, studying or employed in a local company. The current economic model of the CFE no longer corresponds to the expectations of the French abroad, which I can testify to, being, in this assembly, one of the oldest deputies to represent them. The latter first seek coverage for care during their frequent temporary stays in France, as well as supplementary coverage in case of care or even hospitalization in the State of residence. This pessimistic diagnosis called for a vigorous reaction. In the long run, the Fund's balance is threatened. There was an urgent need to adapt and update its economic model. This has led to the consideration of new measures, which justify the legislative developments that we are debating. Tabled on May 12, 2017, under the previous legislature, by Senator Jean-Yves Leconte, the bill is the result of careful work done in the Senate in consultation with the leadership of the CFE itself. It aims at two fundamental objectives, which take up the above-mentioned diagnosis. Its first component is to renovate the Fund's tariff offer. The purpose of the second is to reshape the arrangements for the payment of the costs of members, by now providing clear guarantees and allowing the payment of hospital costs in third parties. Faced with the lack of attractiveness suffered by the CFE, one of the objectives of the text is to increase the number of its members in order to better pool its funding and strengthen the link between our compatriots abroad and France. The proposed law envisages delegating to the CFE the possibility of adapting the tariff offer and guarantees according to the changing needs of our expatriate compatriots. This reform is an act of confidence in the Board of Trustees of the Fund, which has been associated at all stages of its design. Indeed, the Fund wished to initiate a tax reform based on the age and composition of the insured's family. This comprehensive reform, making the tariff arrangements that would be agreed by the CFE's Board of Directors simpler and more legible, will replace the current system, which had a number – the figure is unimaginable, but one of our colleagues has already recalled – 600 possible rates. The JeunExpat Santé product launched in June 2017 is a very successful first step in this ambitious structural reform. However, it does not call into question the foundations of the social security fund of the CFE, in particular its associated values of solidarity. Thus, the aided category scheme, which allows the Fund's social action budget to cover some of the smaller contributions for French foreigners, will be strengthened as part of this reform, which I think is very important. The Fund also wants to better define the guarantees it offers to its clients and to ensure greater third-party access to a much larger number of care facilities. To that end, it had launched an experiment in Asia, Africa and Israel. This is the third-party treatment of hospital costs up to a rate, in connection with a partner with a healthcare network. With this reform, the Fund will now be able to adapt the care rules to make them more readable and manageable in order to guarantee a better service, without departing from the rates charged in France for similar care. Indeed, there is no question for the CFE to leave its role as the basic social security fund. On the other hand, the law will allow it to enter into partnerships with complementary insurers to provide its clients with full care. This was one of the challenges facing the CFE. By referring its policyholders to a complementary insurer to guarantee 100% coverage, it ran the risk, in a very competitive environment, of losing customers – which has happened. This further weakened its financial balance. The first chapter of the text, whose provisions have been consolidated in the Senate, also opens the possibility for European nationals to register, which is important, for an offer from the CFE, in accordance with our Community commitments. As it stands, the legal framework allows the CFE only to accept the affiliation of French nationals alone, in disregard of the principle of non-discrimination between citizens of the European Union, the European Economic Area and Switzerland. This situation, as you know, has led to the conviction of the CFE by the Court of Cassation. In the absence of a clear text, the Fund now accepts these individuals in fact when they apply for membership. So we were correcting a provision that no longer needs to be. It is also envisaged that the entry into force of the new tariffs for the current members of the CFE will only be gradually implemented, in order not to penalise the higher age groups. The original bill also provided for a recast of the representation of insured persons on the Board of Directors of the Fund. While a reflection is under way on an evolution of the representation of French people established outside France, it seems wise for our honourable senators to postpone the planned reform, pending the conclusions of this work. We are totally in this position of balance. The Senate version, however, proposes two relevant innovations. First, it gives greater powers to the CFE Board of Directors, particularly in the fight against fraud. Secondly, it lays down in the law the principle of equal representation on the board of directors, to which we are, of course, very much in favour. Without hesitation, the IUD Group, Act and Independents, and the deputy of the French from abroad whom I am very much welcome this bill. I congratulate the rapporteur for her work, which allows us to make positive progress in adapting the CFE to the socio-economic realities of French abroad in 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will therefore vote on the text without proposing any additional amendments, in order to promote its adoption and entry into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u105	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u106	This evening we are discussing the reform of the Caisse des Français de l'étrangère, a reform long overdue, especially by our expatriate compatriots, who are known to be growing in number, which is an opportunity for our country. This has been said: today, more than 2 million French people live abroad and it is imperative that our social insurance, so important for all French people, can be extended and guaranteed for all citizens. We know that the rules of many host countries have changed and often require membership in the local social protection system. A 2010 Court of Auditors report already raised this problem, which called for a reshaping of the Fund's governance so that it could compete with private insurers. Expatriation is changing, too. More and more French people are settling in other countries with local contracts. To these too, the reform of the CFE must provide a response, in particular by supplementing the offer of our citizens. Finally, the texts of the 1980s were found to be contrary to the principle of equal treatment of citizens of the European Union. This text thus makes the choice to open the CFE to European nationals, which will also have the advantage of increasing the number of members. The balance of the Caisse des Français de l'étranger is to be borne to the credit of its managers and the board of directors, who are working to guarantee it. But, beyond the structural changes I have mentioned, the CFE is also facing internal challenges, such as increasing the average age of its insured persons, the complexity of the tariff schedule, and the illegibility of the health supply. It was therefore necessary to take action. The reform attempts to unify the methods of calculating sickness, maternity and disability insurance contributions so as to enable members to contribute according to their age and the composition of their home, where they contributed according to their income category. The measure is welcome, as it will allow a clarification of the commercial offer of the Caisse des Français de l'étranger. This simplification of the tariff offer of voluntary health insurance is welcome and an important step forward. I would add that it simplifies and eases the operation of the Fund, with coverage as a percentage of the cost of care and support depending on the country in which the care is provided. The proposed reform is important for the approximately 200000 of our citizens who are directly concerned, as they are already affiliated with the CFE. The Senate unanimously passed the bill in a public sitting, after having worked extensively in committee to arrive at a balanced text, which has a great ambition. In the National Assembly, the Committee on Social Affairs has also not changed this text, which is a consensus and on which we should broadly agree. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] The bill will allow the Caisse des Français de l'étranger to develop in the future and to accompany the French, each year more, who make the choice to settle outside our borders. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u107	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u108	It seems certain that the Caisse des Français de l'étranger has limits: its model excludes some of our compatriots, it is not economically viable and it presents a price offer of an unparalleled complexity. Currently, the CFE has only 108,000 members, which corresponds to just over 200,000 protected persons, while the number of French people abroad is estimated at almost 3 million, a constant increase of more than 3% per year. [[Smile]] We have heard a few leads on the reasons for the necessary evolution of the CFE. The observation that has been made, both by the Board of Directors of the CFE and by our colleagues in the Senate, is that the price offer of the caisse has become illegible – there are more than 600 different rates – and that its economic model is threatened in the long run, because it is inadequate for the expats of the 21st century. This situation hinders the improvement, performance, efficiency and attractiveness of the CFE in a highly competitive environment. There are many different statutes – active, less active, inactive, inactive – each with a specific coverage. According to a dedicated formula, dear to our rapporteur, "Ubu would not be there"! This is why this bill proposes, first, the determination of the level of contributions according to age and not income, in accordance with the realities – the disease does not choose its target according to what it earns; Second, accessibility to all ages of life and for all statutes: health insurance for students – who will benefit from a very preferential rate –, self-employed, employees, pensioners – in short, everything that the company has assets and less active; Third, a possible affiliation regardless of the state of health, excellent or less good, with or without a history, with or without ongoing treatment; Fourthly, the abolition of penalties in the event of accession long after France's departure; Finally, voluntary old-age insurance available to employees and their self-employed spouses, in particular those who had to give up their employment on leaving France. This reform will have to be extended by additional measures which are not within the scope of the law. Priorities include the issue of the caisse's attractiveness to young people, the modernization of the information system and the strengthening of internal control tools. In particular, the "Excellence 2020" business project defined the CFE's strategic framework for the years 2018 to 2021, built around a double goal of excellence and doubling the number of members. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to adopt this reform. I hope that, as in the Senate, it will be the subject of a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u109	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u110	Let me first of all have a thought for our colleague and head of the La République group, Thierry Michels, who should have spoken in my place this evening and who unfortunately cannot be with us because of the tragic events that took place in Strasbourg last night. I would like to express my full support for Strasbourg and the city of Strasbourg, in which I have lived, studied and worked for many years. I share, of course, the sorrow and sadness of its inhabitants tonight. I also extend a warm and fraternal greeting to all the staff of the European institutions, who are in Brussels, in my constituency, three weeks a month, and who travel one week a month to Strasbourg, to the European Parliament. Many of them, who were there yesterday in a professional capacity, had a difficult evening. I am speaking this evening as a member of parliament for the French abroad, of course, but also as an elected member of the nation as a whole; In fact, while the reform of the Caisse des Français de l'étranger primarily concerns French nationals established abroad, it actually affects the whole country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u111	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u112	Every Frenchman living in Hexagon today can, during his life, be called upon to move abroad, to carry out international mobility in Europe or elsewhere in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we are at the beginning of a century of great mobility. These also concern French and French. This is nothing new for our country: France is a nation with universal values, open to the world. It finds its fullness only when it is in contact with the world, with its diplomacy, its companies and, of course, the French and French who live abroad. This mobility concerns all French people, regardless of their environment of origin – as you know, my fellow Members of the French Foreigners, the French people who live outside our borders come from all walks of life and are characterised by extreme diversity. Mobility obviously affects our youth, be it Erasmus students looking for new cultures and opening up to the world, or young graduates who have gone to work in VIE – international volunteering in business. It concerns at another point in life our seniors, our pensioners who have gone to live their old days outside our borders. It affects the country's strengths: the professionals confirmed that French companies send a few years on a project, younger entrepreneurs set out to look for new horizons to develop their ideas. In reality, it concerns each of us, since the French from abroad are, each time, different stories: love for one another, family for another – it is sometimes several generations that are settled in a country, a region – and, as I said, for others, professional. All our fellow citizens can, at one point in their lives, nurture a desire, moreover, for international mobility, for openness to the world. This diversity of profiles, paths, stories, their evolution, the changes of our world, obliges us to rethink the model of social protection of expatriates, in order to fill certain persistent inequalities between the French who left and those of Hexagone. The system of the Caisse des Français de l'étranger is sometimes unknown, while it is an essential tool for the support of our fellow citizens during their expatriation. The bill to reform the CFE, which we are considering this evening, is an important development; Its provisions will make it possible to take better care of all our citizens. The Caisse des Français de l'étranger will be modernised – it will open up to new users – more transparent, particularly on the amounts of contributions, and more flexible and agile – it will adapt to the variety of profiles of expatriates. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this reform offers the opportunity to ensure quality social protection for all beyond our borders. However, let us bear in mind that much remains to be done for the protection of the French abroad. I am thinking in particular of the stage following the expatriation, namely the return to France. As you know, it is not necessarily abroad that the most important difficulties of expatriation lie, but on return. Our country would be a winner if it benefited from the wealth of the experiences and learnings of our fellow citizens who, at some point in their lives, went abroad. However, the conditions for return must be optimal; Much remains to be done in this area. I welcome the quality of the work of my colleague Anne Genetet – whether it is this report or, more broadly, the mission entrusted to her by the Prime Minister – and I hope that all of the recommendations she has made in her report will be fully taken up by the Government and this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u113	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u114	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u115	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u116	In 2017, 4078 French people, living abroad, were able to benefit from social assistance. In its report on the situation of French people outside France, the Government welcomed the fact that our country was the only one in Europe to offer a social assistance system dedicated to its expatriate nationals. I would point out that the amounts allocated to these allowances are on the rise, even though the number of beneficiaries is decreasing. For example, the amount of grants granted to local self-help and solidarity organizations is increasing by 10 per cent. The amount of funding allocated to medical and social centres for French nationals abroad increased by 53 per cent, even though the number of centres would not have increased significantly. The greatest caution is therefore to be exercised. The considerable efforts made by the State raise concerns about unjustified financial overruns.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u118	Your proposals are not entirely realistic in the light of the situation of the French. I would like to point out that the majority of the members of the CFE reside outside the European Union, therefore at a significant distance from France. You note the increase in the amount of a number of benefits, but this is related to the aging of affiliates, which I mentioned earlier. However, when it comes to ageing, it is difficult to move around. Controls are therefore extremely difficult to operate. The fight against fraud – I insist, since you are concerned about the matter – is taken into account in this bill and will be strengthened. This is also why the CFE's objective is to develop partnerships with health institutions in countries where we have affiliates, to allow direct settlement that does not go through the recipient. The fight against fraud is a concern not only for the CFE, but also for the quantity of social benefits paid abroad. This is an extremely difficult task, but let us remember that older people, who are the most caring, do not move easily. A compromise must therefore be found between the fight against fraud and the provision of quality services. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u119	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u120	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u121	The commission maintained the deletion by the Senate of sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u122	The committee maintained the Senate's deletion of section 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u123	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u124	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u125	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u126	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u128	Disadvantaged because, in any event, this bill is not intended to integrate the CFE into the general social security system.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u129	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor in explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u130	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] Only fools don't change their minds! It turns out that the rapporteur's general discussion and exchanges with my colleague Jean-Hugues Ratenon led us to change our point of view. The FI Group will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u131	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u132	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u133	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] I thank all of you, because this bill was very much expected and will ensure the continuity of the social protection of our fellow citizens – I am thinking in particular of young entrepreneurs, young French people who are going to live a student adventure and prolong it with professional experience. We want to keep them in our social protection system and provide them with a pension. I thank all my colleagues, and I am pleased that some have changed their minds during the discussion. It's a great success.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-12-12-O1105.u134	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 4.30 p.m.: Discussion and vote on the motion of censure under article 49, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. The meeting is adjourned.
