ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the first part of the 2019 Finance Bill (No. 1255, 1302).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u2	Under the conditions laid down by the Conference of Presidents, we come to Article 37 on the assessment of the levy made on the revenue of the State in respect of France's participation in the budget of the European Union (No 1302, Volume III, Annex 45; No 1304, Volume IX). The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u3	Mr President, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Rapporteur-General of the Committee on Finance, the Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the Information Rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, I come this afternoon to the national representative to ask you to authorise the revenue levy for the European Union for 2019. This is a special year because we are now approaching the end of the current multiannual financial framework, which ran from 2014 to 2020. This has two important consequences. The first is that, unlike last year, the discussion is taking place at a time when negotiations to prepare the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027 have begun. Let us be clear: these are two very distinct exercises which must naturally remain so, but we cannot ignore this crucial negotiation which I shall return to at the end of my remarks. The second is that 2019 is the year of the UK's exit from the European Union. This exit is not intended to have an impact on the Union's budget in 2019; Indeed, the United Kingdom has committed itself to the full multi-annual financial framework, which runs until the end of 2020. Moreover, if we can conclude a withdrawal agreement, we will enter into a transitional period with the United Kingdom on 30 March, which will last until 31 December 2020, during which time the country will remain in the single market as well as in the customs union. Even if no agreement is reached, the commitments made should be fulfilled. But let's not look at the face: the current period has a dose of uncertainty. In the draft finance law for 2019, the amount of the revenue levy for the European Union amounts to 21.5 billion euros, which represents an increase of about 8% over the initial finance law for 2018, in the order of 1.6 billion euros. This increase is mainly due to an increase in the need for EU payment appropriations, in particular to finance its external action and the common agricultural policy – the CAP –, two French priorities. I note in passing that this increase in our contribution in 2019 is accompanied by a comparative improvement in what we perceive. In 2017, France was the third largest net contributor in volume, after Germany and the United Kingdom, while it was second in 2016, but we were the first recipient country in volume of EU expenditure, ahead of Poland, Germany and Spain, two places better than in 2016. I would like to say here my conviction, and it is twofold. Of course, we are concerned that every euro invested in the European budget will give rise to the best possible return on expenditure in the national territory – it is not about expenditure, but rather about investment. However, we fully assume our position as a net contributor. I would like to remind those who are inclined to reason only in accounting terms what this approach has to reduce. Being a member of a single market of nearly 500 million Europeans has a value in itself. Our participation benefits companies that export, young people who train there, the French who work there, consumers who preserve their purchasing power. More fundamentally, European solidarity represents a strong value to which we are committed. Beyond that, there is the cohesion of our continent, which allows us to weigh in globalisation, to fight climate change effectively, to regulate the digital transition or to work to stabilize our neighbourhood; In short, to control our destiny. For decades, the United Kingdom has endorsed Margaret Thatcher's phrase: "I want my money back. Now that Brexit is approaching, our British partners are seeking to return to the single market, to strengthen our security and defence partnership, to continue cooperation in education and research. In short, it is when we leave the European integration process that the benefits are best measured and that we discover that they are not purely accounting. I now come more specifically to the draft European budget for 2019. It amounts to EUR 165.6 billion in commitment appropriations and EUR 148.7 billion in payment appropriations. What are the lines of strength? First of all, I would like to welcome the increase in resources devoted to youth. The 2019 European budget starts the gradual rise of Erasmus+, which is a priority for France, to allow not only more students but also more apprentices to train in Europe. It also reflects the strengthening of the European Solidarity Corps, which gives young people the opportunity to participate in projects that help communities and people throughout Europe, in asylum-seeking centres or through reconstruction work. The second priority we share is increased investment in innovation. In this area, the European Union's action is very concrete in supporting our country's efforts. France is indeed the first beneficiary of the Juncker Plan, with a total volume of funding amounting to EUR 11 billion, which is intended to generate a total of almost EUR 57 billion of investment. More than 150 financing decisions have thus far been approved for France, in various sectors, for the benefit of a very large number of our innovative SMEs. For their part, the envelopes for cohesion policy and the CAP remain, of course, in 2019 the main masses of the European budget. In particular, the resources allocated to the CAP will support the income of our farmers and support them towards the ecological transition, while contributing to the development and development of our rural areas. The 2019 budget proposed by the Commission also aims to contribute to greater solidarity and security, both within and outside the Union. At the internal level, the Commission is planning a doubling of the resources of the asylum, migration and integration fund compared to 2018, as well as the strengthening of European agencies in relation to border management and visa issues, as well as the European Civil Protection Mechanism, which allows the coordination of state assistance to victims of natural or human-made disasters – this mechanism has more than ever had to be used during the summer so special that we have known it throughout Europe. At the external level, the European budget will, in particular, continue to finance the support, education and accommodation of people fleeing conflict in Syria and elsewhere, as well as addressing the root causes of migration through partnership frameworks with third countries. Finally, the European Union's 2019 budget marks a decisive step forward in the construction of a Europe of defence, in particular its industrial and capacity-building component, an essential component of European strategic autonomy. This component is based on the European Industrial Development Programme in the field of defence, PEDID, financed by the European budget – this is a first – to the tune of EUR 500 million over the next two years, almost half of which as early as 2019. It will promote the development and deployment of common defence capabilities, but will also encourage European companies to work together, co-financing projects involving several companies located in different countries. This programme thus prefigures the future European Defence Fund, which was proposed for the next multiannual financial framework. Indeed, it is towards the next multiannual financial framework, for the years 2021-2027, that attention has been focused, since the Commission announced its proposal last May: it plans to raise its level to 1.11% of gross national income – GNI – compared to about 1% for the current framework. The negotiation, which is still complex because it requires the unanimity of the Member States, is made even more difficult by the departure of the United Kingdom, which is a major net contributor, resulting in a loss of around EUR 10 billion to EUR 12 billion per year. The Commission's proposal is indeed an important first step towards transforming the European budget into a genuine instrument of action for the benefit of European citizens, whether it is to accompany the emergence of a Europe that protects, with the creation of a European defence fund – I mentioned it at the moment – or to control borders, with the significant increase in the resources allocated to FRONTEX – the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders – but also to support the mobility of young Europeans, with the doubling of the Erasmus+ programme. However, the so-called "traditional policies" have not lost anything of their relevance, on the contrary. I repeat to you what the French authorities have expressed forcefully from the beginning, in Brussels as elsewhere, face-to-face as well as in public: programming a decline in CAP resources is unacceptable and this policy cannot be Brexit's adjustment variable. We have managed to mobilise our partners widely around these ideas: twenty-one Member States are calling for the CAP budget to be maintained at its current level in the European Union at twenty-seven. Let me briefly summarize our country's position in the next European budget negotiations. First, France is ready for an expanding multi-annual financial framework. However, this requires that we obtain a satisfactory level of expenditure on priority issues, but also conditionalities to ensure social, fiscal and European values convergence, modernisation of the Union's policies with a view to efficiency and, again, convergence. On the revenue side, we call for the total and truly immediate elimination of rebates, as well as the introduction of new own resources, particularly in the fields of the environment and digital technologies. The Commission has made proposals on most of these points, but we must go further, be both more ambitious and more concrete. Similarly, France calls on the Commission to increase its commitment to the part of the budget devoted to combating climate change. The 25 % proposed do not match the role that the Union must play in defending the Paris Agreement: we must go towards 40 %. Finally, we will pay particular attention to defending the interests of our outermost regions and the overseas countries and territories. We will probably have other opportunities to come back to this negotiation, especially as soon as the European Council in December. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the revenue levy is our country's contribution to a perfect but indispensable European construction. We owe it to our farmers, our fishermen, our young people, our businesses and our researchers, but also to those who are furthest from employment, to the most precarious, to whom the European Union is helping, which is all too often forgotten. Of course, profound changes are needed to ensure that European integration is even more in line with our expectations. The debate is under way, the direction to be followed is known; This is partly a medium-term objective, but initial progress is already being made. The European budget for 2019 will give the Union and France the means to be more effective, stronger, more protective. That is why I ask you to authorise the revenue levy for the European Union for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u4	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this sitting, as every year, should allow us to put our budgetary discussion in its European context. National parliamentarians have every legitimacy to discuss European issues. That is why I have wished to participate, since my appointment as rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, in all the interparliamentary conferences which bring together Members of the European Parliament and national parliamentarians on economic and financial matters; It is also an opportunity to take the voice of France and to talk with our partners. This debate is supported by Article 37 of the draft finance law, which estimates the revenue levy for the European Union for 2019 at 21.5 billion euros. But our debate is not limited to commenting on this amount, the precision of which must not hide the weak character since it is a simple assessment, which can vary several times during implementation, in accordance with the pace of implementation of the European Union's budget. Admittedly, it is increasing compared to previous years and is at its highest level since 2013. But I would remind you that the European budget operates within a seven-year multi-annual framework covering the period 2014-2020; It follows that France's annual contribution may be lower at the beginning of the period and higher at the end of the multiannual framework, as sectoral policies increase. It is therefore logical that the levy for 2019 should return to the level experienced in 2013, at the end of the previous multiannual framework. The same reasoning applies to the assessment of our net contribution to the European budget, i.e. the difference between what we pay and what we receive. In 2017, our net contribution was between €4.4 billion and €5.4 billion using the calculation methods, compared to €8.4 billion to €9.4 billion in 2013. The net balance is expected to increase in 2018 and 2019 in line with its previous levels, due to the rise in cohesion policies of the current multiannual financial framework. [[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] But this concept of net balance cannot, in my view, alone trace the full costs and benefits of belonging to the European Union. I am surprised that some colleagues, who usually advocate solidarity and criticise accounting reasoning, take a completely different view when it comes to Europe. I am even more surprised that some claim that Europe is expensive, while the net balance represents only 0.3% of public expenditure in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u7	The vote on Article 37 is important because it will renew the consent of national representation to contribute to the European budget. But this annual vote does not give us room for manoeuvre; What really involves us, what we have room for manoeuvre on, is the multi-annual financial framework, as the minister pointed out. It is therefore important that national representation be regularly informed on the implementation of the current multiannual financial framework but also on the negotiations of the next, which will cover the period 2021-2027. In this regard, I would like to thank the Government for providing us with the necessary annex to the draft finance law on financial relations with the European Union early enough this year. Last year, we received this "yellow budget" a few hours, not to say a few minutes, before the debate. This year,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u8	This is a few days!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u9	...we got it a week early.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u10	What a feat!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u11	I also find that efforts have been made to make this educational annex, and I appreciate that there are very clear developments regarding the French position in the negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework. We are also informed by the report for opinion by Maurice Leroy, who is currently chairing the meeting, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, by the special report by Xavier Paluszkiewicz, on behalf of the Committee on Finance, and by a communication from Alexandre Holroyd. I thank them for having studied in detail the proposals made by the Commission on 2 May for the next multiannual financial framework. It is indeed important, in the crucial period that parliamentarians follow the ongoing negotiations. Many topics have been put on the table by the Commission. Some proposals are particularly welcome, such as the gradual abolition of the rebates that you were talking about at the moment, Madam Minister, against which I have always stood at the various meetings, or the conditionality of the allocation of European funds to respect the rule of law. Others are of concern to us, in particular the reduction of CAP appropriations or the allocation of structural funds according to a per capita gross domestic product criterion, while social, economic and territorial criteria should also be taken into account. The Commission proposes a European budget of EUR 1280 billion over seven years, or around EUR 180 billion per year. It is an expanding budget despite the departure of a net contributor, the United Kingdom. As a result, the revenue levy could be between 26 billion and 28 billion in the future. In short, the French contribution would increase by an average of some 6.3 billion per year over the duration of the multiannual financial framework. But it is clear that with a budget of only 1.1% of European GDP, two thirds of which are redistributed in the form of a cohesion policy and a common agricultural policy, the European Union is not intended to replace the states. In this regard, mutatis mutandis, it should be recalled that the US federal budget reaches 20% of GDP. The small size of the European budget prevents it from having a stabilising function and above all a redistributive function that would address internal imbalances, including trade imbalances. The negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework is taking place in a difficult context for convinced Europeans. In the past, we were fighting to make Europe; Today, we feel like we are fighting to prevent it from falling apart. We are in a period of strong political tensions, at least on three fronts: the Brexit front; the budgetary and financial front; and above all the front of values. The only thing I find positive about Brexit is that we won't talk about the British check anymore. Basically, Brexit could serve as a catalyst for reforming Europe – I have always fought against discounts, I was just reminding you. But the countdown is frightening because negotiations on the exit agreement seem to make little progress, it is a euphemism. Admittedly, progress has been announced on the rights of British citizens residing in the Union, and vice versa on the rights of European citizens residing in the United Kingdom. Similarly, agreement was reached on the continuity of the United Kingdom's budgetary commitments. But, on everything else, a rather disturbing blur dominates only 158 days and seven hours from Brexit, which is expected to take place on 29 March, at a precise twenty-three hours... The question of the Northern Ireland border is insoluble, and there is no indication of future trade relations between the United Kingdom and Europe. But the Union was right to reject the Chequers plan proposed by Theresa May, because we cannot have the advantages of the single market without accepting a few constraints. The possibility of a no deal is growing, and an extension of the transition period would push the problems back without solving them: it would be disastrous for everyone to see this crisis continue. It was believed that the fiscal and financial front had ended since the Greek public finance crisis had been curbed, but it was again a matter of concern with the budget presented by the Italian government. The Commission has warned the latter that its draft budget presents a "particularly serious risk of non-compliance". In Brussels semantics, this is a very severe warning. And because: expansionist policy cannot be pursued with a high deficit when its public debt exceeds 130% of GDP. Basically, if it is not Europe that reminds Italy of its commitments, it may well be the financial markets. Interest rates on Italian debt have doubled since May, from 1.7% to almost 3.6% for ten-year bonds – compared with 0.8% for France and 0.4% for Germany, I recall. If Italy were to face difficulties in the sustainability of its public finances, it would threaten the whole of Europe. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] But the front that must worry us the most is, of course, that of our common values. If tensions on this subject with Italy and some Eastern countries are not to be denied, we must remain firm on our values, because it is on them that Europe is founded. You are right, Mr Leroy, to remind us in your report: "The European Union is indeed much more than a single market and than a "cheque book", it is a union of values. » I am convinced that Europe will overcome these crises. In a few years, when we return to this period, we will be pleased that France, chaired by Emmanuel Macron, has stood firm and has been a pole of stability in the storm. However, we need to better coordinate our national policies. The European budget remains too small to be used for short-term regulation, but the Treaties allow the response to economic cycles to be driven by coordinated national policies. Europe can overcome these crises if everyone takes responsibility. France has taken its own steps to restore its public accounts: this year we have left the excessive deficit procedure and we are continuing our structural adjustments at a pace compatible with the support for economic growth. Germany and the countries of the North must also shoulder their responsibilities and effectively implement the recommendations of the European Union, which calls on them to support their domestic demand. If, on the contrary, Germany uses its budgetary surpluses to further reduce business taxation, trade imbalances will only worsen, putting the euro area at risk. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The campaign for the European elections will begin; This debate is a prelude to this. As the world breaks down, as some are tempted by national retreats, it will be an opportunity for us to reaffirm our commitment to the European Union. We need Europe more than ever. Who can believe that the fight against tax evasion or the causes and effects of climate change can be purely national? The national retreat gives a false sense of protection. There is an urgent need to revitalize the European project to meet the challenges of our time. Madam Minister, we know that the Government is aware of this urgency; Parliament supports you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u12	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u13	[[At 16.30, Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard replaced Mr. Maurice Leroy in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u14	Madam President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that France's contribution is on the rise, as it will rise to EUR 21.5 billion for 2019, or EUR 900 million more than the updated forecast for 2018, or also EUR 5.1 billion more than the payment made in 2017. France therefore contributes about 15% to the European Union budget. Its contribution represents 5.5% of its net expenditure, making it the fourth state budget, after defence, school education and research and higher education – not to mention the debt burden. This is quite considerable but also necessary. The European budget for 2019, as has been said, is the sixth in the multiannual financial framework, which provides for an overall spending ceiling of more than EUR 1000 billion over seven years. The draft budget presented by the European Commission for 2019 amounts to EUR 165 billion, an increase of 3% over 2018. But there are a number of contradictions in this. The first, which is not the least, is that at a time when, I believe, Europe is increasingly needed, at a time when it is increasingly needed, the consumption of credit is increasingly erratic. Indeed, there is an under-consumption of appropriations, which has already occurred in recent years. If this is generally good news for France, since it makes so many credits to be recovered, it is obviously not one for Europe or, ultimately, for our country. This suggests the need to change European institutions and policies; This issue will of course be debated in the few months that separate us from the European elections. The European challenges have never been so important – the rapporteur-general has described a number of them. The departure of the United Kingdom, first of all, is an extremely technical and, in my view, fundamental and disastrous issue, politically, both for the United Kingdom and for Europe itself. As is usually said, it is up to us to turn this weakness into a force, but we would have preferred to devote European energies to something else. In addition to Brexit, whatever the transition period and the time it will take, we have to deal with political tensions with certain countries which, in the face of waves of migration, seek to subject Europe to centripetal forces, and others where the desire for budgetary emancipation vis-à-vis the Maastricht base is manifested. I am thinking of Italy, which obviously calls into question a number of fundamentals. However, from the moment when we share the same currency, common rules apply: it is a basic principle that must be respected. It is not an accounting principle, but a principle of currency sharing. Moreover, the European budget is not flexible enough – as you know very well, Madam Minister, since all the successive ministers, in European affairs as elsewhere, have been able to observe in their field of competence. This budget is therefore not able to respond to the unexpected, if not unforeseeable, that may arise. Although the Juncker Plan is an answer to a number of questions, it is clear that if a new crisis of the same magnitude as that of 2008, France would be in great difficulty in responding to it, as would Europe as a whole. The migration crisis itself has shown how difficult Europe is to quickly find effective responses to all these crises that are calling on the population. There is a considerable divide between the times of institutional Europe and that of the peoples of Europe; This is probably one of the explanations for the current European difficulties. The challenge is also, and above all, economic. Europe is taking a stand between the United States, which pursues a policy of reaffirmation of its strength, and the Chinese power, and must establish its international political and economic sovereignty, at the risk, if not, of having to align itself with other countries, which is obviously not possible. Economic sovereignty requires a gradual increase in the role of the euro in global transactions and in central banks' foreign reserves. While the proportion of euro and dollar reserves tends to change in the right direction, the movement is still too slow. The strengthening of the euro area requires greater stability, with the finalisation of the Banking Union, which has been discussed for a long time. In this respect, a pillar is still lacking: the common guarantee of deposits. Such a system would allow – and will allow – the equivalent protection of all European savers; the 2008 example shows that this is eminently necessary. Similarly, the deepening of the single capital market is essential to strengthen the stability and competitiveness of the business financing system, in particular by providing more coherent sources of financing between the different countries, for the benefit of the economy, and therefore of European companies. Economic sovereignty also depends on Europe's ability to better defend its commercial interests. It is clear, however, that each trade treaty raises questions and poses problems for the various national parliaments and often for the peoples and economic sectors concerned. If, of course, we need Europe to negotiate these treaties at European level – it is obviously not a question of everyone doing so in their corner – we also need clearer procedures, particularly vis-à-vis national parliaments, and less secret, to avoid the problems that usually arise at the end of the journey. Only an economically strong European Union will enable its Member States to defend their own economic and strategic interests. Apart from economic challenges, Europe obviously faces the migration challenge. Many irregular crossings of our borders have been registered since 2015. With the terrorist threat – which is certainly not necessarily linked to this phenomenon, even if many people think the opposite – they exert pressure of a nature that is often unbearable to countries. The distribution of efforts is uneven, as are contributions to different Schengen databases, both in terms of volume and quality. In addition, consultations with the latter are random. Moreover, let us go to the bottom of things: with 330 million euros in 2017 – and perhaps a little more in 2018 – the means of FRONTEX are obviously far below what is necessary for Europeans to have what they expect, that is, borders, for the movement of people and goods. I have referred to the Brexit challenge, which will necessarily, at one point, affect the financial policy space of European policies. We obviously need to project beyond this deadline, even if it is necessary to sequence the negotiations. With regard to financial programming 2021-2027, I am thinking in particular of a budget that is threatened: that of the CAP.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u15	But agricultural policies represent a major budget, which is the foundation of the European Union at the economic level, because it reflects its capacity to finance agricultural production, which we increasingly need. The CAP cannot be a variable for adjusting the European budget, at a time when the agricultural world is now struggling to cope with all the constraints on it. It is not a question of contesting the idea that integration should be advanced on a number of policies, but it must involve a relaxation of the rules on the consumption of credits and an increase in the budget, not by sacrificing one of the fundamental policies of Europe, carried by France for a long time. France must maintain its position as a leader in agriculture, which also requires strengthening, or at least stabilising, the common agricultural policy. Finally, some answers must necessarily be European. I am thinking of what is happening in terms of taxation, particularly that applicable to GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon. France can show the way in this area, it seems to me, as it is trying to do through amendments on permanent establishment, but it is clear that some tax-related responses must be made at European level – we are talking about thousands of billions of dollars, a sector that determines the future of the world economy. Unfortunately, we are still a little far away, although the Government is doing so, I have no difficulty in recognizing it. Some reforms are also needed in the field of combating major international tax fraud, which is quite close to what I have just mentioned. The establishment of European instruments to combat this phenomenon probably needs to be accelerated. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] The new world political and economic order offers a real opportunity for Europe to reconcile the sovereignty of nations, national values and integration into globalisation. Neither technocratic nor intellectual, far from populism, we must resolutely build a Europe of peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u16	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u17	Madam President, the Minister responsible for European Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur-general, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, how proud to be before you to discuss European matters in the context of the budgetary debate! What a pride, ladies and gentlemen, to observe this European construction! Unsurprisingly, she gives her European children forums, such as the one that brings us together to enjoy. I would like to reiterate the importance of the many debates on Europe that are going back to our current budgetary discussions. Turning to Article 37, which proposes an estimate of the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union, it is necessary to have a hermeneutic reading of all these figures. The uniqueness, which was the main axiom on which Europe was built, becomes increasingly porous, attacked on the one hand by the rise of extremes in the various Member States, on the other by the questioning of democracy. Article 37 of the draft finance law for 2019 relates to the levy on the revenue of the State in respect of France's participation in the budget of the European Union. Our contribution to the European budget is estimated at € 21.5 billion for 2019; It is estimated to be up by €20.2 billion in 2018. This increase in the French contribution is due to the delay in the commitment of certain programmes, and therefore in the allocation of the funds allocated to them, which we cannot but deplore. In fact, how can we envisage financing the Europe of the 21st century when spending has grown older and resources have declined? As Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance for European Affairs, I would like to give you some background in connection with this revenue levy. This, as we must say here, is the subject of too short a debate in this House; That is why I propose to establish a permanent relationship between our national institutions and the European institutions, which seems all the more necessary when we know that in the European Parliament expenditure is voted on and that here, too exclusively, revenue is voted on. The European budget is limited by a multi-annual financial framework – MFF – which sets the spending ceilings for each area of activity of the European Union for seven years. The current framework, which covers the period 2014-2020, has, of course, experienced some surprises during its implementation, leading to a mid-term review, which has made it possible to reorient European funds in order to promote, for example, youth employment initiatives. To be sure, the next budget must, in the context of the negotiations of the next MFF, invite us to live up to our words. On 2 May, the European Commission made an interesting proposal, let's say, as it is reorienting appropriations towards new priorities such as research, defence and, above all, migration. A strong proposal from the Commission is particularly important: the conditionality of certain European funds being paid to countries that respect the rule of law. The criteria for the allocation of the Structural Funds, and therefore the regional administrative formalities, should be reviewed in the direction of involvement. In this perspective, in order to ensure that the funds are allocated transparently to projects with real European value, the hypothesis of centralising the management of these funds at the level of the prefectural bodies could be explored: exits the local baronies and electoral clientelism, which do not reflect in any way the real added value that Europe must make visible, palpable and concrete around us. The Commission has also made two proposals on economic and monetary union: the creation of a European Investment Stabilization Mechanism and the establishment of a reform support programme. If this is a step in the right direction, we must go further: the reform will only be completed when the euro area has a real budget to be truly competitive. It should be noted that these two excellent proposals were born on the initiative of the President of the Republic, who is a founding father.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u18	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u19	Finally, the Commission has devised a new basket of own resources, including the introduction of the common consolidated corporate tax base, more commonly known as ACCIS, which would create a single EU-wide window for corporate tax returns. France calls for the addition of a European digital tax to this component, which would affect the revenues derived from the services offered on-line. This tax is intended to be temporary, pending the conclusions of the OECD – the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – on the subject. It is essential, in my view, to reach a rapid consensus, with a view to tax fairness and fairness. Integration by example is the only solution that will allow the Member States of the European Union, who want to move forward, not to be held back by the most reluctant. EU expenditure will be perceived as legitimate by citizens as it relates to European common goods. It is therefore imperative to demonstrate to citizens that, whenever the Union exercises jurisdiction instead of a Member State, it does so not only without a new tax burden on the taxpayer, but that it even contributes, all other things equal, to reducing public expenditure. It is the application of the principle of budgetary subsidiarity, which seems to me to be an excellent approach, if the Member States really decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u20	One of the causes of the unease that we all feel about it is the mismatch between, on the one hand, the ambitions proclaimed and the decisions taken by the European Council and, on the other hand, the modest financial resources devoted to it. The Commission wishes to reach an agreement on the multiannual financial framework before the next European elections, scheduled for May 2019. For me, this is a serious political mistake, which would lead to depriving of the stakes of the elections, which are crucial, since the financial framework imposes every seven years a kind of straitjacket of budgetary strength which prohibits financing other priorities. From the point of view of democracy, it is essential that the next European Parliament be able to vote on expenditure over the next seven years. Finally, all these negotiations are conducted in parallel with the discussions on Brexit. The United Kingdom is expected to leave the European Union on 30 March 2019. Discussions on the modalities of this exit may seem distant and unrelated to the topics we are dealing with here; Yet they will have important consequences for our fellow citizens. First, if the withdrawal agreement is adopted, the United Kingdom will enter into a transitional period during which our future relationship will be defined, particularly in its commercial aspects. However, the assumption of a lack of agreement is increasingly credible. The European Summit of 17 October showed this: there are significant differences between the two sides. The question of the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland is a major stumbling block. If these negotiations failed, the United Kingdom would immediately become a third State for the European Union: border controls should be restored and British citizens residing in France would face a legal vacuum. To deal with this eventuality, Ministers Jean-Yves Le Drian and Nathalie Loiseau presented to the Council of Ministers on 3 October a bill enabling the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union; I can of course only welcome this anticipation on the part of the Government. I hope that the next budget will be much bolder, given that we have been in a permanent business as usual for ages, and that we are able to break habits – these damn habits that keep us so often. That is why the amendments to Article 37 tabled by the opposition groups, which are intended to reduce the revenue levy for the European Union, are justified only by political positions that make us believe that less European budget is less Europe, and therefore more sovereignty. Let the French not misunderstand it: this extreme populist discourse is only a reflection of a political strategy which consists in making us believe that all our evils are of a European nature and that we must get out of it. This Europe is not perfect, it must be agreed. It is our duty to transform it, to make it more beautiful and bigger, less technocratic and less elitist, to make it a democratic, united and sovereign Europe, closer to the citizens – other than through directives that they do not understand – a more social Europe, because we have for too long left the emphasis on strictly economic, budgetary and regulatory considerations. Yes, I believe in this Europe, a Europe that protects, which gives the means to act, a Europe that defends. That is why I am campaigning for more legible European finances, and also for a restructured European budget. Let us update our national and European software to finally see Europe as a reservoir of savings. On the eve of these elections, we have a historic opportunity to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] As Special Rapporteur, I will follow closely the forthcoming negotiations and report on their financial and budgetary aspects. It goes without saying that I will defend with force, broadness, enthusiasm and conviction the idea that there can be no real European ambition without a resized budget. Finally, we must move from the European project to the European project, as Hubert Védrine rightly said. In the light of this summary presentation, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to pass clause 37 of the finance bill after this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u21	Mr Maurice Leroy, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u22	Madam President, thank you for replacing me in the Chair, which will allow me to present my report. [[Mrs Marielle de Sarnez, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Mr Jacques Maire warmly applaud]] Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mrs President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr General Budget Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen rapporteurs on behalf of the other committees, ladies and gentlemen, in five terms, I have never done this before, but I have given the answers given to me by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Budgets. I am doing this, not on my own behalf, but on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which unanimously deplored the conditions under which we worked this year – the rapporteur-general has pointed out this in the rostrum. I am telling you as elegantly as possible, minister, it was not necessary to take so much time to make such sibylline answers. I invite you to read them – I will hand them over to you from the gallery. Again this morning, we were receiving an answer! We will have to point out to the services that it will be unnecessary to send us more tomorrow and the day after tomorrow because we have already voted on Rule 37... I received the "yellow budget" the day before the examination in committee: frankly, these are not methods! On behalf of the whole Committee on Foreign Affairs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u23	Including the Communist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u24	...including my comrade Jean-Paul Lecoq, I want to thank President Marielle de Sarnez for allowing us to work under such conditions. And I point out – this is a first here – that I have enriched the report with all the contributions of all the colleagues, for whom I thank them. The opinion I have to give on the European levy has a somewhat special status in our budgetary discussions. Indeed, it is not a mission or a budget programme but an article in the first part of the draft finance law, in this case Article 37, which evaluates the levy made on the revenue of the State for the benefit of the budget of the European Union. I therefore present this afternoon this European levy, but also, what is new, the European Commission's proposals for the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027. This is an opportunity for the Committee on Foreign Affairs to convey political messages about our expectations. First of all with regard to the revenue levy for the European Union for 2019, as you said, Madam Minister, the assumption is 21.515 billion euros, an increase of 8.1% over last year. The European budget for 2019 is a continuation of the previous ones, with little change in resources, except for traditional own resources, customs duties, which continue to erode. However, it is planned to finance new initiatives to address the challenges facing the European Union: the European Solidarity Corps, the research component of the European Defence Fund, the European Labour Authority, the European Civil Protection Mechanism and the Structural Reform Support Programme. The levy is always a difficult expenditure to manage in execution. Moreover, the current multiannual financial framework, which ends in 2020, is characterised by a significant delay in the implementation of cohesion policy, so that France rightly calls for prudent budgeting in commitment appropriations, in order to curb the remainder of the financial framework to be liquidated from the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. The difficulty is compounded by the fact that the budget is based on assumptions that will vary in the course of the year. This year, the impact of Brexit brings major uncertainty. In the absence of a withdrawal agreement with the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom should continue to contribute to the current financial framework and budget for 2019. However, should it cease to do so, the other Member States should compensate for the absence of a UK contribution, which would result in an increase in the French contribution to the 2019 budget. That's not neutral! As for the European Commission's proposals for the next multiannual financial framework, they are for some innovators, for others very regrettable. Innovative revenue: Brexit is an opportunity to put an end to the existing rebates – which, as the rapporteur-general pointed out, contribute to making the budget illegible – and to reform the system of own resources, as I called for in this rostrum last year on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The European Commission proposes three new resources: a call rate of 3% on a new consolidated common corporate tax base; a 20% share of the revenue from the auctioning of the rights of the European emissions trading system; a national contribution calculated on the basis of the quantity of non-recycled plastic packaging waste in each Member State. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, LR and MODEM groups]] France also calls for the introduction of an interim tax on digital resources and makes it one of the conditions for increasing its contribution. I myself asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian, at his committee hearing about the creation of a GAFA tax – President Woerth has also spoken about it. We are looking for own resources: here it is, France is right! We should all be behind the Government on this issue; There is no right, no left, no majority, no opposition: this is the interest of the European Union. We need to move faster in this area. The European Commission proposes a tax of 3% of the revenue from the activities of digital platforms; a report to the European Parliament suggests a rate of 5%. Apparently, the work is moving forward on this point, which I welcome. The Commission also proposes to make the budget much more readable in order to ensure greater flexibility, which is perfectly desirable, all the more so as we have to respond to multiple challenges. It also focuses on European added value. The European budget must have the opportunity to intervene in areas where pooling resources allows for results that Member States cannot achieve alone. This would respond to the logic of just return, far too simplifying. The Commission also wishes to make the Structural Funds conditional on respect for the rule of law, which can only be approved. Let us now turn to the very regrettable proposals, which have been raised before me by other speakers, which I welcome. While the draft financial framework foresees an increase in funding for the new, rather consensual priorities of research, innovation, digital technology, youth, security, defence, migration and border management, it also includes, in my view, inappropriate targeting of cohesion policy appropriations and, above all, a reduction in the resources allocated to the common agricultural policy unacceptable to France. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Such a reduction could have a serious impact on the viability of farms and could lead to the misunderstanding of European farmers. I would like to reiterate that the common agricultural policy needs to be modernised and simplified; Financing to meet these challenges is essential. I fully endorse the excellent question of topicality that our colleague Jean-Louis Bourlanges had put to the Government on this subject. We are not going to destroy the foundation of Europe, when we are putting forward its founding fathers! If there is a European policy to be defended, that is the one: we must fight for the CAP! It is also regrettable that the French proposal to make the allocation of cohesion funds conditional on a certain degree of fiscal and social convergence has not been accepted. We have discussed this at length in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: it is not normal for structural funds to finance the reduction of tax rates in other Member States. Many of us also stressed that the disbursement of European funds was not enough, leading to catastrophic returns. It is enough to read the report of the French Court of Auditors to understand that we must sweep before our door. For this reason, it is not the European institutions that are involved; to improve the system, it depends on us, on our central administration. I also associate myself with the remarks made by my colleagues on the opacity of European policy, while stressing that the proposal for a financial framework is trying to make it more readable. I will not do so in the rostrum, but I am also addressing the issue of timing in my report. I join what has been said before me: telescoping with the European elections is a real problem. The debate on Community finances will be particularly difficult in 2019 and 2020. Europe will probably have to try to do more with less, which will jeopardize its historic territorial and social cohesion policies, in particular the common agricultural policy and its rural development pillar. At the democratic level, the procedures followed to renegotiate the Union's financial agenda 2021-2027 keep the European Parliament, which is scheduled to be renewed in May 2019, in a situation of observer rather than actor. It is another paradox of political Europe that European citizens, through their elected representatives, should be kept away from fundamental financial decision-making and the priorities to be given to the Union, while the rise of populism is based on the argument of a Community construction disconnected from the realities of the peoples. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM, LR and MODEM groups]] It is with these comments, ladies and gentlemen, that I, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, speak for the adoption of Article 37 of the 2019 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u25	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, "What do I pay? To do what? And who makes the decision? » These questions by our colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq sum up perfectly the tone of the lengthy exchanges we have had in the Committee on Foreign Affairs about the European levy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u27	[[Smile]] That's an opening!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u28	[[Smile]] Nice reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u29	Each of us has expressed, with his words and sometimes with his differences, the democratic demand for greater readability, simplification and transparency of the European budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u31	Citizens have the right to know to which expenses the European levy granted by France is affected, whether it is useful, effective and whether it responds to their concerns, concerns and expectations. That is how we will reconcile our fellow citizens with the European idea and, even more so, with the European ideal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u32	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u33	I would like to thank the draftsman, Maurice Leroy, for the second year in a row – that is the choice we have made – for the demanding, difficult and in-depth work on this great issue. I would like to express our gratitude to him for his fair, enlightening report and for his many and relevant proposals, all of which are converging, it is interesting to note this, with the excellent reports of the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance – of which I also welcome the chairman – and of the information rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs. The examination of the European levy is an opportunity for our Parliament this year to express its expectations and demands on the next multiannual financial framework. Our Parliament wants to be a player in this negotiation which is crucial for the future of Europe. We must remember this fact: the budget must be not just an accounting exercise, but the mark and measure of the ambition we have for Europe. We support the new priorities of the European Union. The policy of responding to the migration challenge and border control will benefit from a substantial increase. This is a good thing, it goes in the right direction, but it will have to be translated into reality and on the ground, which is not yet the case. As everyone sees, we must speed up the definition and implementation of a genuine European asylum policy and devise new instruments for migration policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u35	The environment is another priority. The increase in the budget for the implementation of climate objectives is obviously a step forward, but more needs to be done. On this great issue, which is vital for the planet and for humanity as a whole, the will of the Member States to set a goal of exit from the carbon economy must be expressed with more force and determination. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I come to the defence and security of Europe. Security-related investments are increasing by 40% and a European defence fund of EUR 13 billion will be created. This decision is welcome. In an increasingly dangerous world, the European Union's autonomy must be strengthened. The Union should also contribute, in part, to our military effort in the Sahel, because that is the security of all Europe, not just that of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u37	The necessary funding of these new priorities must not be at the expense of the Union's policies, which, though historical or older, are not outdated. As you have all said, ladies and gentlemen, these policies must be modernised, but by no means sacrificed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u39	This is the case with the common agricultural policy: we cannot accept the budget reduction proposed by the European Commission. An ambitious common agricultural policy is vital for the defence of quality agriculture and for guaranteeing Europe's food security and food sovereignty. Similarly, cohesion policy, which has promoted the convergence and economic take-off of many regions for the benefit of Europe as a whole, needs to be modernised, simplified and thought out in a more finer way, to the benefit of the most fragile and vulnerable territories. The distribution of these funds according to the GDP per capita criterion alone is no longer relevant; obviously, we need new criteria. Recasting the budget also means putting it at the service of the Union's European project and its values. We must strengthen the link between the provision of European funding and respect for Europe's fundamental values: the European spirit is that. And we must complement this essential link to respect for the rule of law with strong incentives for European fiscal and social convergence, which has been too late. The structural funds, as our draftsman rightly says, are not there to finance the social and tax dumping of certain Member States. We look to the French Government to reintroduce this requirement in future discussions. Recasting the budget is also a major reform of the way it is financed. It must be more equitable, more modern, more European, free from the logic of bargaining and the poison of the just return, which is in no way just. The departure of the United Kingdom offers a historic opportunity to finally put an end to the rebates, which are contrary to the principles of budgetary solidarity, readability and fairness. The Commission has proposed a five-year phase-out of these rebates: this is not our position. All discounts must disappear, and the sooner the better. Clearly, the next budget will have to finance new investments in order to cope with the departure of the United Kingdom, in all cases. In this regard, I want to say a word about the new maritime corridors. The European Commission has proposed, in a document apparently produced without consultation with our country, to concentrate freight coming from Ireland on the ports of Northern Europe, to the detriment of the French ports. This is not acceptable; France must not and cannot accept it, and the Commission must reformulate its proposal. A European budget that is legible and understandable to our citizens will have to rely on its own resources, which are truly European. Proposals are on the table – as has already been discussed – on which progress needs to be made, particularly with regard to corporate tax. France, a major contributor to the European Union's budget, expressed its readiness to assume an expanding budget, while clearly laying down certain conditions: a modernisation of policies, so that they are more effective and fairer; the creation of new own resources; the establishment of conditionalities; the removal, as soon as possible, of discounts. These requirements, as we have all said, are well-founded. However, I would like to inform you, Madam Minister, of our concern on an important point. The Commission wishes to produce a final and comprehensive report on the main lines of the multiannual financial framework even before the European elections. This would lead to a forced financial framework for the new European Parliament coming out of the ballot box and for the new European Commission set up after the elections, which would be in complete contradiction with the much-needed democratic re-foundation of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u40	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u41	[[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups as well as on a few benches of the UDI-Agir group]] [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] That is why we cannot and must not accept it. I have no doubt that the French Government will, in the forthcoming negotiations, bear those expectations and demands of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u42	Mr Aleksandr Holroyd, the information rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u43	[[At seventeen, Mr. Maurice Leroy replaced Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u44	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, my rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the article on the revenue levy for France's contribution to the European Union budget is always a special moment in the examination of the draft finance law, since, because of the multi-annual nature of the Community budget negotiations, it is an opportunity for a finding rather than a choice. As you know, the French contribution to the EU budget, up from the previous year, will reach 21.515 billion euros next year. This increase, shared between the different Member States, reflects the late rise in cohesion policy. In particular, it feeds policies that are resolutely geared towards our citizens and businesses, with the European Industrial Development Programme in the field of defence, the Erasmus+ programme and the Youth Employment Initiative. The budget year before us is of particular importance this year. Indeed, the multi-annual European budget, the MFF, is coming to an end, and discussions on its successor, for the period 2021-2027, are already well under way. "It is at European level that a solution must be found": how many times, ladies and gentlemen, have I heard this phrase, or another similar phrase, in this Chamber, at the corner of a street or at the table of a bistro? Global warming? The solution is European. A financial crisis? The fire extinguisher is in Brussels. The migration challenge? The Union is not doing enough. However, the European budget remains at 1% of our collective wealth, which is desperately inadequate to meet the objectives we set for it. This is the European paradox: many agree to ask the Union for solutions to the great challenges of our time, while others try to deal with its lack of efficiency, omitting in a mysterious way that it is the Member States, that is, ourselves, who are the main elements of it; Yet there are few who are willing to give him the real means of public policy that we ask him to ensure. It is the challenge of the budgetary debate that is opening up: to live up to our ambitions, we can no longer satisfy ourselves with a European budget equivalent to 1% of GNI, and this budget must be subject to a threefold transformation. First of all, it must rely on genuine own resources, which would be a return to the genesis of the European budget, which was, until the mid-eighties, financed mainly by customs duties, as has been pointed out earlier. The major part of the GNI resource locks us in the deadly logic of just return for each Member State. However, this logic is absurd since it does not take into account the benefits of participation in the European Union, which is more obvious every day in the United Kingdom at the time of Brexit. According to this logic, our country should measure the usefulness of its contributions to international organizations in the light of its financial contribution alone. Should we therefore have to leave the United Nations because our net contribution is EUR 122 million, the WTO – the World Trade Organisation – because we are also contributing to its financing, or the International Committee of the Red Cross, for which the French contribution reaches EUR 7.5 million each year? The logic of just return, ladies and gentlemen, has only one ancestor, isolationism, and only one descendant, the just sharing of human misery. A truly European budget must therefore be based on substantial own resources. I will take two examples. The ongoing work to define a new consolidated common corporate tax base must be completed: we can no longer tolerate a Europe of tax dumping; On the contrary, we must foster genuine fiscal and social convergence so as not to suffer unfair competition from our neighbours. A call rate of 3% on this new base would allow an additional EUR 12 billion per year to be allocated to the European Union. The Commission also proposes to build on revenues based on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme, which would directly absolve the EU budget of €3 billion while strengthening a public policy that addresses the greatest challenge of our century: global warming. The second necessary transformation of the budget, the most technical without any doubt but which is just as important, is its operation from end to end. As you know – this has already been mentioned – the next multi-annual financial framework will define the concrete priorities of the European Union for the next seven years. As such, it is essential that the European budget reflects the result of the vote in the European elections and that it is thus finalised after May 2019. A political choice of the size of the European budget requires a genuine democratic debate. It is essential to give citizens their voice on the European budget. However, if the MFF is closed before the European elections, what reality does that mean for Europe? That of an undemocratic, distant and technocratic Europe whose decisions are taken in advance, without the participation of the citizens. The French must be able to express their views on the future of the European Union: what Europe do they want? Let's ask them the question first. Collective security, protection of our borders, agriculture, ecological and digital transition, employment and investment are all issues on which the French must be able to express themselves at European level. Many have already done so, especially with you, Madam Minister, during the citizen consultations; Their vote must now count and be reflected in the next MFF. In addition, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance has mentioned, it is imperative that the MFF be equipped with mechanisms that promote greater budgetary flexibility. Voting a budget over seven years provides a long-term horizon, but it is essential to be able to make ongoing adjustments in order to deal with emergencies. Who can claim to foresee what will happen in 2025 or 2027? The European Union must be able to react quickly in the event of a crisis or unforeseen event. In order to do so, it needs a more flexible budget to ensure greater room for manoeuvre. Let's give her the flexibility she needs to be more resilient. Efficacy will demonstrate European added value. This flexibility is the prerequisite for a Europe that prepares our future and protects us. Finally, possible new resources must support the third axis of the MFF's transformation: a real increase in the European budget, so that it can live up to the ambitions we set for Europe. We want a Europe of research, innovation, training, a Europe in which all young people can study, train and work. We want a sovereign Europe in trade and regulation at the time of the emergence, as I say, of the consolidation of the new giants of the 21st century. We want a Europe that is a leader in renewable energy, capable of creating the conditions for a green industrial revolution to create jobs while protecting our planet. If we want all of this, let us afford it! The EU must be allocated the budget it deserves. The departure of the United Kingdom must be an opportunity to put an end to the budget cuts, to which the rapporteur-general is so attached! A readable and solidary budget is a sincere budget. This is the bronze law to which we have submitted our finance bills since June 2017; It is the law of brass that must prevail within the European institutions. The Union's budgetary architecture must respect simple principles enshrined in the Treaties: unity and sincerity. European citizens must be able to understand what the EU finances on a daily basis, so as not to give in to populist mermaids, to those who denigrate and play on fears, without being able to propose another project. Our compatriots must know that Europe finances nearly 300 million euros of projects in the Hauts-de-France region, including 137 million for rural development. They should also be aware that the same European Union is funding the protection of Marseilles calanques and the cancer research centre in Marseilles. By assuming its budget, Europe goes to its citizens. A repressed European budget is a timid, unambitious, backward, aphone, Europe where some are all the more led to forget its values, which are the salt of our Union, that it is no longer able to meet the fair expectations of our citizens. The rule of law, freedom of expression and the separation of powers are the guarantors of our societies. This European budget must be clear: the condition of European solidarity is respect for these values which unite us in a community of destiny. Colleagues, at the most important crossroads of our destiny, Hemingway condemned us to the fatality of the lack of signage. We cannot resolve this. The next European elections in 2019 will depend on the new majority in the European Parliament and, more broadly, on the future of this project of European integration that is unique in the world and in history, which our forefathers imagined after having lived the unimaginable and to protect us from it. In the battle ahead, we make a courageous choice, far from that of the ease of populists on all sides. I say here: there is no contradiction between a sovereign Europe, a strong Europe, an intransigent Europe, a protective Europe and a benevolent Europe. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the recasting of Europe will require a redefinition of its project and budget. The future budget will have to be legible, ambitious and assumed in order to be truly democratic and European.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u45	Mrs Liliana Tanguy, Deputy Mrs Sabine Thillaye, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mrs President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr Special Rapporteur, Mr Information Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to address you in my capacity as Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs on the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union. First of all, it should be borne in mind that this levy does not in any way represent an insignificant expenditure but, on the contrary, devotes France's full participation in the European Union and thus reflects our country's commitment to the construction of Europe. Article 37 of the draft finance law lays down the amount of the levies returned by France to the Union budget. In the strict sense of the term, we will not talk about expenditure but about a reduction in the revenue of the State. This year, estimated at 21.5 billion euros, compared to 19.9 billion euros in 2018, this levy is up 8.1%. But the actual amount of the French contribution will only be known within a few weeks since it is determined by the actual implementation of the European budget. It would be important to reflect, in the context of the next multiannual financial framework, on a more coherent articulation between national budgets and European budgets in order to improve the readability of budgetary choices. This clarification would enable our fellow citizens to gain a better understanding of the issues related to budgetary choices. This discussion on the revenue levy is taking place in a very specific European political context because the current multiannual financial framework, which has been setting EU expenditure since 2014 and for a period of seven years, is about to end: seven years marked by very strong changes in political and economic issues and priorities, both globally and at European level. The current MFF, applicable over the period 2014-2020, negotiated in the context of the sovereign debt crisis, thus leaves room for new fiscal negotiations that must respond to very different challenges: ecology, migration flows, Brexit, strengthening the euro area and internal security, all of which France cannot act alone. We must not forget, moreover, that this budget will also be the first of the 27-state Union, with a new Parliament and a new Commission, in a context of distrust of the European Union. The exit of the United Kingdom results in the end of the participation of the third net contributor in the Union budget, amounting to EUR 12.7 billion per year. The fundamental question before voting is: what Europe do we want for tomorrow? That is the question we asked ourselves during the citizen consultations that are so dear to you, minister. For my part, I am firmly committed to a strong Europe, the only one capable of enabling us to respond collectively and effectively to all these challenges. According to the European Parliament's latest Eurobarometer survey, on 17 October, 64% of French people are convinced that their country benefits from EU membership. In this context, the French contribution and the next multiannual financial framework must be ambitious and modern instruments for implementing the new priorities for European action. We need to learn from crises in order to develop appropriate instruments to achieve our objectives. Six months ago, the European Commission presented its proposals for the MFF post-2020, which is a first step towards the European re-foundation that we are defending. Let us take a few examples. The investment plan for Europe, better known as the Juncker Plan, is one of Europe's successes. It has almost achieved its goal: more than 600,000 SMEs across Europe benefit from financing agreements. The success of this fund has led to an agreement between the European institutions to extend it and to increase it from a target of €315 billion in investment to €500 billion by 2020. A new budget line is also devoted to the European Industrial Development Programme in the field of defence. This first phase, which is exploratory in nature, will translate into a European defence fund of EUR 13 billion in the MFF 2021-2027. In the current geostrategic context, the European Union is indeed preparing to make an unprecedented effort for its strategic autonomy. It is also a question of facilitating the mobility of Europeans, in particular young people, students, workers and the unemployed, for whom this experience is so crucial. The Erasmus+ programme, which allows young Europeans to travel, study and train in contact with other cultures and other ways of working, will benefit from an increase of more than 10% in 2019. This financial effort is fully part of the project of sustainable and inclusive growth in Europe for all Europeans. Finally, last example, the Commission's proposals incorporate aid for refugees in Turkey into the future fiscal year. The declaration between the European Union and Turkey, adopted in 2016, has greatly reduced the flow of refugees trying to cross the Mediterranean at the risk of their lives. The European Union's contribution, which will approach EUR 1.5 billion next year, will therefore enable the provision of food, shelter and education services to people fleeing the Syrian conflict. It will also be matched by commitments of €560 million made at the Brussels II conference in April 2018 to help neighbouring countries such as Lebanon and Jordan. The increase in appropriations under the heading "Europe in the world" shows that the European Union is acting decisively against the root causes of migration and is pursuing an active policy of refuge and asylum. However, these proposals are not enough, the increase in the French contribution to the European budget is only a start. We cannot be satisfied with a European budget representing only 1% of the wealth produced each year by the Member States. In this context, I welcome the European Commission's innovative proposals to modernise the next budget, by increasing own resources through revenues from a harmonised corporate tax, a tax on carbon emission allowances or a contribution to offset the non-recycling of plastics. By adopting such measures, the European Union and the Government would make a significant step forward in the fight against climate change but also against plastic pollution. Aware of the difficulty of reaching a unanimous agreement between the 27 Member States, Europe will nevertheless be able, thanks to the efforts it will make in this fight, to fulfil its commitments to the ecological transition. France must be on the front line to defend a European budgetary surge in favour of a more sovereign Europe capable of assuming itself as a full-fledged power. We have already taken a first step in this direction, proposing that our European partners supplement the own resources scheme with an intermediate tax on digital activities. We, as national parliamentarians, also have our role to play in these profound changes and must assume transfers of sovereignty. We will contribute to the reflections on the general future of the European Union. The European Semester for the coordination of economic and budgetary policies gives us a great opportunity to do so. It is up to us to contribute to improving the level of implementation of the country-specific recommendations, by moving away from Italy's fiscal policy, which is not fulfilling its commitments as enshrined in the Stability Pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u47	Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the electoral challenge of May 2019, which will determine a new political situation. The imperilment of the PSC's entry into force on January 1, 2021 would result in mechanical delays in the renewal or launch of the programs. That is why it would be desirable for the budgetary negotiations that must take place after the elections to be swift and effective. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by inviting you to begin a reflection on the link between the temporality of the European elections and those of the budgetary negotiations, in order to bring the choices of voters into line with European budgetary policy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I invite you, because of our legitimate pride in participating in the European integration process, to vote in favour of clause 37 of the 2019 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u48	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u49	[[Smile]] Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I thank you not only for the choice of your excellent references, but also for raising once again the issue of European corridors. As you can imagine, the Member of Parliament for the Port of Le Havre electoral district is very attached to this subject. The European Union has become, over the course of its construction, a carcan rather than an opportunity for the peoples. There is little time before the spring elections to show that it can really be a chance, before we all end up with hangovers. Unfortunately, the path taken by the current direction of the European Union is not in this direction. Madam Minister, you have told us that you believe that this debate is not just an accounting matter. I think you are right: this is an eminently political question. A superb idea of cooperation between nations to ban the war that has been gnawing the continent for centuries, the idea of the European Union has gradually been diverted, until it becomes a neoliberal union, with only the aim of increasing and protecting profits. Faced with this total lack of attractive perspective for many of our fellow Europeans, and above all in order to swallow the neoliberal idea that there would be no alternative, President Macron has decided to cut Europe into two, to divide in order to simplify overtly. There would be the axis of good, at the head of which he would stand on his white horse to struggle foot on foot against the axis of evil. This axis of good would be that of neoliberals, who want capital to circulate faster than humans and consider that any public action is an obstacle to free competition. For us, who have no lesson from Europe to receive, this Europe is the Europe of social suffering, of environmental outburst, of competition between peoples, of the end of public services, from the Brussels ivory tower. The axis of evil would be that of the nationalists who see the future in the reproduction of the frights that have led to misery and desolation throughout the continent. But it feeds on disillusionment, disappointment, anger, and the spite of the peoples who are victims of neoliberal policies. For them, the only alternative is to fall back on oneself and xenophobia, to return barriers, walls and protectionism. As a result, European policy is literally taken hostage by these two groups who share the same manicheism. On the one hand, the neoliberals of Macron or Merkel need the neo-fascists to be elected, because the extreme right catalyzes hatred and fears. They chose each other as enemies, and it's going well: it arranges the supporters of neoliberalism and it allows us to make a diversion. The extreme right is the useful idiot of neoliberalism! On the other hand, the extreme right needs an anti-social policy to justify its existence and justify violence against minorities. She gets rid of all injustices to prosper and, like a dream merchant, to propose simplistic solutions. When, from the top of the stage on which they were taken without any citizen vote, the Commissioners come to try to block programmes democratically validated by the peoples, in Greece or Italy for example, to sort out what would be good or harmful, when they pretend to ignore that Northern Ireland is part of the United Kingdom in order to make a negotiated Brexit run out and impose a punitive Brexit, when they let bankers and finance divert national legislation to encourage tax optimisation and fraud or to go infuse themselves on the consequences of the 2008 crisis, of which they have been saved by the states and therefore the taxpayers, when they strip the French ports of the map of the plans of new maritime corridors, to serve those, further north, who operate according to an absolute ultraliberal model, they only feed those whom they denounce and widen the gap between the nations and the Union. Then they come with their crocodile tears alarming themselves from the ascents of extremes in the ballot boxes. European policy is in a stalemate. Rather than let ourselves be trapped by these postures that lead us straight into the wall, we communists – and we are not the only ones, far from it – have always proposed and acted for a Europe of peoples, for a Europe where solidarity and cooperation would be the key words. A Europe where labour law would be protective everywhere, where poverty would finally decline, where cooperation would have taken precedence over competition, where public services would be preserved as a good and not regarded as a financial manna free from private appetites, where the defence of nature, biodiversity and climate would be a priority, and where all this would work with powerful taxation and above all without flight. In short, a Europe where social, economic, ecological or fiscal dumping would no longer be the vestige of the old world. It seems fundamental to repeat this will, as the current debates only turn around the neo-fascists' fight against neo-liberals. We refuse to admit that Europe, this magnificent construction, is reduced to that. The 28 European Commissioners, who draw up the budget, are chosen by the Member States in a totally opaque way to manage the European Union in fact. And these people give lessons in democracy! In the most comfortable of times, the Commissioners decide many things, starting with the free trade treaties. Let us come to the 'tariff barriers', to take up a deliberately pejorative jargon, that is simply to say, to customs duties: the European Union is always quick to remove them. And it doesn't matter that customs subsidies are the only source of own funding for the Union's budget! When the budget was closed, it was enough to ask States to increase their contribution to the budget and the matter was settled. In 1988, the contribution of the States represented less than 11% of the financing of the European Union, compared with 28% from customs duties. Today, the Member States' contribution finances more than 70% of the Community budget, supplemented by only 16% from customs duties. The EU budget for 2019 will be EUR 165.6 billion in commitment appropriations and EUR 148.7 billion in payment appropriations. With state contributions of 70% of the budget, more than 100 billion are mobilised by the Member States. We must not forget that this is the substance of our debate: why does France pay the European Union € 21.5 billion? Because the European Union is not able to levy taxes itself and simply asks its Member States for more. This can be seen with the CETA-type treaties – the comprehensive economic and trade agreement with Canada. After that, the Commissioners are surprised that an anti-European feeling has settled in Europe for a long time. After martyring the Greek people, imposing a fiscal straitjacket that strangles the Member States and having negotiated several free trade treaties in secret, we are still surprised. What do we want? What are we waiting for? Or rather, what are we able to expect from the current European Union? The European Union's 2019 budget, which we are discussing through the drawdown of French resources, is not encouraging. Of course, it still goes mainly to the common agricultural policy. This, as rightly pointed out in the information report by our colleagues Alexandre Freschi and André Chassaigne, is not a policy of the past which should be reduced in the European budget – the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs have reminded us again at the moment. However, its share fell steadily, falling below 40% of Community expenditure, compared with two thirds in the early 1980s; Its cost is only EUR 100 per inhabitant per year. The European budget is also marked by an increase in appropriations linked to border security and measures against migration. Do we want this stronghold Europe? The European Union is becoming crooked and paranoid. The FRONTEX agency, which protects European borders, will see its staff increase from 1400 to more than 10,000. A total of €33 billion will be allocated for the protection of our borders and €20 billion for defence. This obsession for the security of the Union turns to ridicule: the migration crisis is deep; It is not by letting migrants die at our doors that we will be safe. Do I have to remind you that the Mediterranean is the most dangerous migration route in the world, that it has seen nearly 17,000 human beings perish since 2014? Security in the South will be achieved by enabling countries in crisis to rebuild themselves through education, important health services, basic infrastructure and strong public services. To that end, public aid for development must be stepped up and, above all, it must stop leading destructive wars for the stability of considerable geographical areas, in Libya or elsewhere. The European Union's rise to power on security issues goes back to what is being prepared. In a few decades, climate migrants will have to be welcomed with open arms. Moreover, the roots of today's environmental problems stem from the industrial revolution that we, the countries of Europe, have carried out since the beginning of the 19th century, and the European Union is still the third most CO-emitting powers in the world. The European budget, which has been amputated by the United Kingdom since 2019, would better be more attentive to the needs of the people who are struggling for a more equitable and ethical society, rather than listening to those who are working for a world whose compass indicates profit rather than solidarity. In this new cold war between the neo-fascists and the liberals, the only course to follow in order to get Europe out of the rut is that which will lead every Frenchman, every Italian, every Spanishman to consider that he is also European because he will see no contradiction, but on the contrary complementarities, between these two filiations. As you will understand: Members of the GDR Group will not vote for the European levy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u50	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u51	Mr M'jid El Guerrab, for the Libertés et Territoires Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mrs President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, let us "repoliticise the European debate" to remedy the deficit in the proximity of the European Union! This is the slogan regularly launched by the German philosopher Jürgen Habermas. In this respect, the budget is the political decision par excellence. This is a founding moment of all democracy, both for the executive and its supporters and for its opponents. To discuss the budget, in particular, our country's contribution to the European Union, is to discuss our project for Europe and our ambition for the future. Article 37 of the draft finance law for 2019 estimates the amount of the levy on State revenue for the European Union budget at EUR 21.5 billion. This is one of the highest amounts in the finance bill. To a very large extent, the EU budget for 2019 is in line with the previous one, which is due to the multi-annual financial framework 2014-2020. Despite ever-increasing national contributions, the Union appears to be struggling to meet the unprecedented and colossal challenges that lie ahead: the investment challenge, the innovation challenge, the competitiveness challenge faced by the other regional groupings that structure themselves, the challenge of the international environment and the fight against terrorism, the challenge of the digital revolution that upsets everything, the challenge of climate change and, as we have seen recently, the migration challenge. The paralysis of the European Union in the face of the economic, political and social changes that we are facing only accentuates the scepticism of the European peoples towards the European institutions. How can a simple boat drifting with a dozen migrants on board have provoked such a political cataclysm, shaking the walls of this old common building? This scepticism is expressed in every election that punctuates the political life of our countries. Let us consider Austria, Hungary and Italy. It is clear that Brexit is another factor of trouble, both in itself and because of the lack of a British consensus. In the absence of a withdrawal agreement, the United Kingdom is expected to contribute EUR 12 billion to EUR 14 billion to the EU budget this year. If this were not the case, the other member countries would have to take over to compensate for the lack of contributions. In any event, France may have to pay between EUR 1 billion and EUR 2 billion as a result of the UK's departure; It would be the little cherries on a cake already well supplied. These challenges and uncertainties are not neutral, they will translate from a budgetary point of view: the draft budget for 2019 presented by the European Commission amounts to €165.6 billion in commitment appropriations and €148.7 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 3.1% in commitment appropriations and 2.7% in payment appropriations compared to the 2018 budget. Our country's contribution has been increasing steadily over the past two decades, and its share is increasing in relation to the government's net tax revenues. The amount of our contribution, made up of the revenue and own resources levy, has been multiplied by five in 35 years, from 4.1 billion to 21.5 billion. The continuing increase in the levy for the benefit of the European Union is paradoxical given the budgetary discipline provided for in the European Treaties: the rigour provided for in the Treaties would be imposed on all national budgets but not on the European budget! This situation is fuelling distrust. It is therefore of the utmost importance to review the way in which the European institutions are financed. Not that we wanted less Europe, but we want more and better Europe! The best thing about Europe is to look at its budgetary situation in a lucid and precise way. There is indeed an asymmetry: the European Parliament decides on expenditure, while the national parliaments are concerned only with contributions from their respective countries. In addition, monitoring the implementation of the European Union budget is sometimes difficult to carry out, in particular due to fluctuations in economic activity. New tools need to be developed. Beyond the uncertainties, tensions and inevitable misalignments between forecasting and execution, I would like to point out that the extent of the contribution made by our country cannot be measured by reference to the net balance alone. This logic is far too Malthusian, far too restrictive, because it does not take into account the added value of European construction – which, moreover, is not necessarily quantifiable. The interaction between our country's public finances and European integration is therefore far less unilateral than is all too often claimed. The European Court of Auditors therefore recommends taking into account certain criteria which constitute the added value of the European Union, such as the achievement of the objectives of the Treaties, the establishment of European public goods, the generation of economies of scale and spin-off effects, respect for the principle of subsidiarity and the realization of the Union's values. While the proposal for a multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 has just been outlined, it is important to consider a profound reform of the European Union's financial mechanisms. Brexit offers us a historic opportunity for this. First of all, there is the readability and transparency of the European Union's budget. A great deal of work remains to be done in this area; Parliamentary scrutiny would gain. This is all the more urgent as a very substantial increase in France's contribution, which is expected to be around €6.3 billion on an annual average, i.e. 30% more than the 2014-2020 Multiannual Financial Framework. This increase cannot be unilaterally borne by our country. In particular, it must be conditional on the removal of the rebates originally desired by the United Kingdom. Of course, the Commission suggests that the increase should take place gradually over the next five years, but it seems to us that it will be much faster, with France being one of the most important contributors. Like others, our country requested a discount in 2012. The system has become complex, illegible and inequitable: a reform is therefore needed in the near future! The reform of the system of own resources is also desirable: they are stagnating and their proportion in the overall budget of the Union remains too low. In general, the European Union is overly dependent on the finances of the Member States. It is therefore essential, in my view, to introduce a European tax on the basis of VAT, the value added tax, the only tax whose base is now harmonised. The aim is to build fiscal harmonisation. We must also reflect on the role and priorities of the European budget in order to finance the investments necessary for our growth, the modernisation of our infrastructure or the ecological transition. We must ensure the consistency and usefulness of certain expenditure. The insufficient pooling of defence spending places on France the weight of the continent's security and the ensuing financial effort: I know something about the French Member of the Maghreb and West Africa! The strengthening of the European Defence Fund is therefore necessary, as is the deduction of costs related to OPEX – external operations – in the calculation of our contribution. Europe should also, without further delay, consider developing a comprehensive geostrategic vision on the "vertical Europe-Mediterranean-Africa", to borrow the words of our friend Jean-Louis Guigou, President of the IPEMED – the Institute for Economic Prospects of the Mediterranean World. Greater integration is needed, with a view to generating development in Africa and relieving the old continent from migratory pressure. In that regard, it was important to break with the fragmentation of development assistance initiatives. France, Germany and the European Union can no longer act separately: we must rationalize our actions as part of a European approach; Only in this way will we be able to establish lasting and fruitful cooperation. As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, I have seen the lack of ambition on both sides. A Euro-Mediterranean summit was announced by the President of the Republic for next summer: this will be an opportunity to get into the heart of the matter, in a pragmatic and concrete way. It is important to restructure the EU budget by redefining its priorities. It would be an effective way of re-establishing trust between European institutions and national institutions, as well as with citizens. It is true that there is now a desire for reform, both at European and French level, but unfortunately it is not up to the stakes, and we regret that. Let's finish with the missed appointments! Europe must change. Of course, Brexit must be seen as a break, but also as an opportunity to strengthen ties between the countries of the European Union, and to relocate part of the world's finance and governance. We must therefore take up the constant challenge, from Jean Monnet, Robert Schuman and Konrad Adenauer to François Mitterrand, of making Europe a world voice for peace of nations and freedom. It has no price, but it certainly has a cost. For all these reasons, our newly created group, Libertés et Territoires, chose to abstain on this article 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u53	Mr Ludovic Mendes, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, is speaking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mrs President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mrs Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Rapporteur-General, Mr Special Rapporteur, Mr Information Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, last year on the same date, I stressed in this forum the differences in our views on the role that France must play in the European Union through the revenue levy. Twelve months later, it is clear that our differences persist: once again, during the annual financial year, our opponents seek to challenge the European project as a whole, using arguments that are sometimes surprisingly identical. Participation in the Community budget is a translation of the solidarity bond that must unite the different members of a family. As in all families, there are sometimes crises and misconceptions, but it is always the family spirit that wins. This bond of solidarity is lacking in our Europe, while, in several countries, the nationalists on the left and on the right, sometimes capable of counter-nature alliances, are instrumentalizing human crises and tragedies in echoing their project of withdrawal and destruction of the community. If we want to face the challenges of our century – effectively fight terrorism, respond to the migration challenge, better protect our borders, face the instability of the world, no longer face globalisation, affirm and defend our values, respond to the climate emergency, be able to weigh against the powers of today and tomorrow, guarantee European unity after Brexit, fight against nationalism – then we must think of this solidarity. The day before yesterday, 1 million people demonstrated in London for a new referendum, in order to defeat Brexit and stay in the European Union. A few months away from a vote that could be decisive for the future of the European Union, convinced Europeans must make their voices heard. They must strive to show our fellow citizens how important Europe is, how much its action has an impact on our daily lives, as shown by the progress made on important issues such as Defence Europe, several times mentioned here, whose ambition must be reinforced by the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, or, at social level, seconded work. Elected from the Moselle, I know that the European Union is indispensable to the economic activity and attractiveness of my territory. I also know the vital importance of the common agricultural policy for our farmers, and I welcome the commitment of the Government and the President of the Republic, who are mobilizing our European partners to vigorously defend the interests of our farmers. Between 2014 and 2020, in the Greater East region, the European Union spent €1.4 billion. Often, in response to the citizens of my constituency who ask me about Europe's action on our territory, I quote all these projects: the Metz Technological Research Institute, with its 400 partners, co-financed by Europe; the Eastern high-speed line, co-financed by Europe; the Metz-Thionville Regional Hospital, with its 2000 places and 170000 annual admissions, co-financed by Europe; In the cultural field, the Pompidou Centre in Metz, co-financed by Europe. Europe therefore plays an important role in the development of our territories. Thanks to the action taken by the Government over the past seventeen months, France again presents itself as a strong and credible partner in the eyes of other Member States. This credibility honours and compels us. Maintaining our deficit below 3% and improving our public finances...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u55	That remains to be proved!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u56	...put us back on the path of mutual trust with our European partners. The European budget must also give a greater share to own resources. At present, the European Union cannot rely on direct levies, and it is financed by contributions from the Member States. We must therefore give other sources of income to the European Union, through direct taxation on certain sectors of activity, such as digital technology, which represent a major tax burden. We must also make access to European funding conditional on Member States' compliance with the Union's founding rules, the first of which is the rule of law. We can only welcome the European Commission's willingness to move forward on this path, and we denounce the ambiguity of those who, by their abstention or their opposition to the procedure laid down in Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union, give tacit approval to Mr Orban's actions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u57	Let's not exaggerate! Let's not mix it up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u58	It would be extremely reducing to focus the debate on the French contribution to the European budget on the net balance. The Community budget also finances agencies whose activities benefit all Member States, such as FRONTEX, which coordinates customs activities and the protection of the external borders of the European Union as a whole. I visited Greece last week as part of the preparatory work for a report on European asylum which I will shortly be presenting to the Committee on European Affairs with my co-rapporteur, Marietta Karamanli. I have seen once again the central role of FRONTEX, whose staff is expected to increase to 10,000 by 2020, or of EASO, the European Asylum Support Office, and EUROPOL, the European Police Office, which fights cybercrime, cross-border crime and terrorism, whose resources must be increased and the prerogatives extended. Migration flows at the borders of the European Union will not fade as if by magic. There is no need to invent new European actors to deal with this problem, but it is time to give the current bodies financial and regulatory resources to match their mission. It is time to put Europe back at the heart of the public debate in our country. We are at a crossroads: the time has come to act, if we do not want to take the risk of witnessing the dislocation of a project that we believe deeply and that has been able to maintain unity and peace on our continent for nearly seventy years. We are collectively responsible for allowing mistrust of the European institutions to settle in society, even in national parliaments, fueled by a Manichean reading of the facts instrumentalised for national policy purposes. We must therefore collectively shoulder our responsibilities by ensuring that political actions are matched with our intentions. The representatives of the groups at both ends of this House are opportune to denounce the social crisis dictated by Brussels or the supposed laxity of European rules in the face of terrorism and cross-border crime. But why, then, not have voted for the creation of the Passenger Name Record – passenger record data – which is essential for the effective fight against terrorist networks, when this proposal was under discussion in the European Parliament? Why not vote in favour of the revision of the posted workers directive, which has been the biggest step forward in the social field in recent years at European level, since it will help to stop harmful distortions of competition for our companies and will limit social dumping.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u59	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's just display!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u60	Why not have voted for the revision of the Copyright Directive, which is necessary for the protection of creators and press publishers? To none of these questions we have an answer. For our part, we challenge Europe when it is necessary, but when it moves forward, we take part in these advances – when I say "we", I say that I am not talking about the Republic on the move, but about certain parties represented in the European Parliament. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is not the political men and women but the peoples that we want to protect and bring together. We will therefore strongly support our country's contribution to the European Union. Today, France is taking the European Union forward; This one won't move forward if it doesn't get in order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u61	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister responsible for European Affairs, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mrs President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we meet in the middle of the budgetary marathon to discuss the assessment of the levy on the State's revenue from France's contribution to the European Union's budget. The conciliation phase with the European Parliament, at the end of which the European Union's 2019 budget will be adopted, will take place in the coming hours and days. This week's plenary session in Strasbourg, the European Parliament will be considering this evening the budget for the Structural Reform Support Fund. On Thursday, it will examine the European Investment Stabilisation Mechanism for the euro area, as well as the InvestEU Fund, and discuss the role of the European Investment Bank. We may therefore have to make some adjustments to the amount of the revenue levy that we are discussing here. In any case, the draft finance law considered by our assembly estimates the French contribution to the European Union's budget for 2019 at 21,52 billion euros very precisely. Its increase, which keeps us in second place in the ranking of contributors – in volume – to the European budget, behind Germany, is the corollary of the general increase in the draft budget for 2019 presented by the European Commission, in both commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. I will not mention the figures, which are well listed and commented on in the reports drawn up by our rapporteurs. I would point out, however, that the European Union's budget accounts for just over 1% of the wealth produced each year by the Member States. Of course, comparison is not right, but the one we can do with the federal budget of the United States of America – and to which you have given yourself, Mr General – places us far from the orders of magnitude found there. The significant increase in the French contribution to the budget of the European Union is due in particular to the increase in the budgetary programming of its headings 2 – "Sustainable growth: natural resources" and 4 – "Europe in the world". The French contribution estimate also takes into account, in the amount of EUR 13 million, the financing of the first tranche of the European Union facility for refugees in Turkey, in accordance with the contribution certificate establishing the payment schedule transmitted by France to the European Commission. In addition to conventional European policies, we will have to finance new initiatives next year – interesting in many respects – such as the European Solidarity Corps, which will allow young Europeans to work on projects organised in their own country or abroad and intended to help individuals or organisations throughout Europe. We also mention the research component of the European Industrial Development Programme in the field of defence, integrated into the European Defence Action Plan launched in November 2016. It will strengthen the strategic autonomy of the European Union and increase the effort to ensure our technological and industrial autonomy. In this regard, I would like to point out that European defence action has recently taken important steps. The next steps should include the establishment of a monitoring mechanism to reduce the excessive dependence of certain Member States on imports of defence equipment developed by third countries. The increase in the national contribution to the European budget is also due to the erosion of traditional own resources, such as customs duties – as you mentioned earlier as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr President; So I won't come back. Let us be lucid: the end of the current seven-year multi-annual financial framework coincides with the end of a certain period of European integration. Of course, we are thinking first of Brexit and the related uncertainties. The draft budget, which we are debating, incorporates the new priorities jointly defined by the 27 Member States and falls within the bounds created by the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, even if the accounting consequences of it will spare the year to come. We will see what will be the outcome of the ongoing negotiations on Brexit. Perhaps the European summit to be held next December will bring us some good news. The Chief Negotiator, Michel Barnier, is reasonably optimistic for the time being. We will certainly have an opportunity to debate in this Chamber – perhaps even before the end of the year – the Brexit negotiations and the prospects they must draw for our country and our government. However, the questions do not come solely from Brexit. The future of the Union's own resources also gives rise to this. As part of the development of the next multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, the European Parliament wants to increase the Union's overall budget by €190 billion, 70 of which would be allocated to the development of European agriculture and 67 to the structural funds. The common agricultural policy and the structural funds are two key areas. We, members of the Group of the Republicans, express to the French Government all the concern we have about their prospects for evolution. We reaffirm, as President Woerth pointed out earlier, that the CAP cannot be a variable for budgetary adjustment. With regard to the structural funds, we will also be very vigilant. Beyond budgetary and accounting issues, we must ask the question of the future of the European project. As I had the opportunity to say last year in this rostrum, in the same context we are at a crossroads – reminding us of this can be a triviality, but we see that the European context, in many respects, is becoming increasingly tense. In fact, we are at a crossroads of several paths, which I will try to draw briefly. The first road ahead for us is the great leap forward, even though Europe, in some respects, is on the brink of the abyss: ever more European integration, at all levels; on all levels, a strengthening of the communitarisation of all policies. Clearly, this very integrationist vision, President Macron subscribes to it, as well as our colleagues in the La République group on the move. It seems to us very little shared – so very unlikely to attract support and allies – on a European scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u63	In fact, on Europe, we don't really know where you are!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u64	Let me tell you, dear colleague, that this very integrationist, Europeanist vision, in short, which I will call – with a zest of irony, these great men may forgive me! – from "giscardo-delorist", seems very dated to me, a little old-fashioned, very brighties!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u65	[[Smile]] Bravo! It's the past! Back to the future!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u66	Of course, the 1980s are a good time for music and fashion...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u67	What about François Mitterrand? He was the one who made everything nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u68	...but if it is to adapt to the realities and challenges of the 21st century, as well as to the current needs of the European peoples, it is clearly out of date! This ever-enhanced demand for integration on all floors – "more and more Europe, more and more Europe! – leads the French executive, it seems to me, to a relative isolation and encounters the incomprehension of the peoples, except to their anger, all over Europe. The second path also leads to isolation. It consists of turning your back on centuries of common civilization and sixty years of shared political project. As the large regional blocs continue to grow and invest massively, especially in the great innovations of tomorrow, the retreat of the national retreat would simply lead us out of history and turn out to be deadly. In this regard, we can only worry that some European countries are moving away from the path of accountability – in particular the budget. Finally, there is a third path that we, members of the Republican Group, and our allies in the great family of the European People's Party – EPP – will invite voters to take part in the next European election campaign. It is based on a Euro-responsible vision. Far from the Europeanist chimeras, which seem dated to us, as binary simplifications opposing two sides, it seems to us that the means to develop a political line based on an ethics of responsibility exist. This Euro-realistic line will bring together those who are willing to return to the original raison d'être of the European construction: to protect the European peoples while building a continental power. It seems to us, who, at the heart of the PPE's European political family, are at the same time patriots and Europeans, that we are able to avoid Europe, with lucidity and realism, falling into the traps in which it could deteriorate, and to reinvent – with the men and women of good will who are committed to working towards European revival – the model of cooperation and solidarity between the nations of Europe. In the coming weeks and months, as part of the European election campaign, we will have the opportunity to give concrete details of this Euro-responsible vision, this Euro-realistic political line, in the form of very specific proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u69	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u70	Quality intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u71	[[Smile]] I didn't hear you correctly, Mr. Mélenchon: I believed in a remark about certain "Giscardo-delorist" who would have been prodigal in speaking time... Mr Philippe Dunoyer, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – The Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also applauds]] Mr President, Madam Minister responsible for European Affairs, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mrs President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome the work of our distinguished colleague and no less eminent chairman of the sitting, Maurice Leroy, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u74	Sua Eminenza!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u75	... which has produced a lucid and enlightening report identifying the strengths of Community budgetary policy and the areas in which reforms are needed. The exercise is not easy: we know how sometimes the European budget lacks readability and transparency. The debate we have today is crucial. In addition to examining the amount of the levy on State revenue for the benefit of the European Union, it provides an opportunity to refer more generally to the Union's budgetary choices and its orientation and future. France's contribution to the Union's budget was EUR 21.5 billion in 2019, up 8.1% from the 2018 financial year. For the most part, this increase is due to a catch-up compared to the previous year, characterised by an exceptionally low European levy. Thus, Article 37 of the draft finance law for 2019 strengthens France's role as a major contributor to the European budget and continues the trend that has been observed for more than 20 years. Furthermore, it is part of – as you recalled, Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs – in a particular context, characterized by the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, scheduled for 30 March 2019, by the elections to the European Parliament, scheduled for May 2019, and by the installation of a new Commission, even though Europe will face major challenges. Brexit and its impact on the participation of the United Kingdom – the third net contributor to the European Union budget – in European programmes put a number of uncertainties on the European levy. Will the United Kingdom continue to contribute to the European financial framework and budget in 2019? The question is not annoyed. Indeed, if this were not the case, France's contribution for 2019 would be considerably increased – probably between EUR 1 billion and EUR 2 billion, according to the estimates of the management of the budget of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. There is no question of calling into question our solidarity effort, which is fully justified if we are to respond to the many challenges that the European Union now faces. The European Defence Fund will be worth EUR 13 billion. The European Union is already carrying out military missions or operations – five in Africa and one in the Balkans – within the framework of the common security and defence policy. Defence Europe is also the construction of an industrial and technological defence base. Given the competition in this sector, Europe needs to pool skills and innovation, and focus on the search for shared gain. It is with this in mind that a European programme for industrial development in the field of defence has been set up: it will support the competitiveness and innovation capacity of the European defence industry. Here again, our sovereignty is at stake: if we do not invest in a European defence industry, we will not have the means to implement our common project; We'll be at the mercy of a superpower. Climate change is another major challenge; It requires investments that are part of an ambitious common policy. The Union's objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% from 1990 levels by 2030; the reduction is expected to reach 80% by 2050. In this area too, our country must play a leading role, because climate change concerns us all. The multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 should ideally be adopted, according to the European Commission, before the European elections in May 2019. This cut-off date may seem premature because of the remaining points of disagreement. Among these, this has been mentioned several times, the first is the reduction in the order of 5% of the resources allocated to the CAP. Such a reduction in the funding of the first European policy, which guarantees the Union's food security and sovereignty, is not acceptable. A majority of Member States – twenty out of twenty-seven – have also joined France's initiative and are calling for the CAP budget to remain at its current level. The European Parliament has also denounced the decline in funds allocated to the CAP, as well as those allocated to cohesion – I will come back to that. The reduction in the CAP budget will undoubtedly cause the anger of European farmers and weaken the viability of farms, in contradiction with the reform efforts requested of them at the same time. The IDU, Action and Independents group is fundamentally pro-European; But we will never accept that on the one hand we give more to the European budget, and on the other hand farmers are less accompanied. The same applies to the 6% reduction in expenditure on cohesion policy, which was denounced two weeks ago in the Committee on Foreign Affairs by my colleague Christophe Naegelen. Our country has always been in favour of a European policy of solidarity and cohesion designed to accompany economic and social transitions for all territories. Instead of a decline, this policy needs greater equity; New social, economic and territorial criteria, such as the unemployment rate, should be given more weight. The reduction in funding for these two policies is likely to affect mainly small towns and rural areas, which suffer most from globalisation and concentration of investment in metropolitan areas. These differences, on such key issues, will make it difficult to reach agreement on the multiannual financial framework within the deadlines set. The European levy cannot be debated without referring to the necessary reform of the financing of the Union's budget; In the long run, France calls for a genuine budget for the euro area, with permanent revenue and expenditure. This reform will only be possible if we find new own resources and if we remove the discounts by 2021, as France is asking. This is a condition for the consolidation of economic and monetary union. Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you pointed out the lack of transparency in the Community budget. It is indeed a major challenge for citizens' access to information as well as for the intelligibility of the Union's guidelines. Greater transparency and readability of the budget will be an undeniable democratic gain. These are prerequisites for flexibility, which would allow budgetary priorities to be rapidly adjusted in the light of developments or emergencies. Finally, beyond the purely budgetary aspect, I cannot conclude my remarks without referring to the need to defend the interests of the overseas countries and territories. After Brexit, the European Union will be present in the Pacific zone only thanks to the three French OCTs: New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Wallis-et-Futuna. During his visit to New Caledonia last May, the President of the Republic affirmed his will to build a strong indo-pacific axis between Paris, New Delhi, Canberra, Nouméa and Papeete. It also seems essential to us that the European Union examine the OCT's requests for status changes in the post-Cotonou agreements and negotiations, in order to strengthen its presence and visibility in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the MODEM group. – The rapporteur-general also applauds]] With these few reservations, and while remaining vigilant, in particular with regard to the threats to the common agricultural policy, the UDI Group, Action and Independents will vote in favour of the adoption of Article 37 of the draft finance law for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u76	The next speaker is Mr Joaquim Pueyo, for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u77	Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, 2019 will be a central year. The British are coming to the end of the round of negotiations on their departure from the Union; the discussions of the multiannual financial framework will have to be concluded; the European elections will be held at the end of May. I will not go back to the amount of the revenue levy for the European Union, nor to its increase in relation to the draft finance law for 2018, as these points have been highlighted by all speakers. However, it is our duty to ask ourselves what policies we wish to defend within the European Union. The European Commission has presented the broad guidelines of the multiannual financial framework for the next six years. Considerable efforts will be made in the areas of defence, internal security and migration policy. They are essential, given the uncertain international situation in which we find ourselves. Youth policies, such as the Erasmus programme, or aimed at ensuring our future, such as those relating to the fight against climate change, will also need to be supported. Paradoxically, some countries are opposed to an increase in the European budget and are very reluctant to develop new own resources. It is therefore essential to make choices and to find new budgetary room for manoeuvre. In its draft multiannual financial framework, the Commission envisages a sharp fall in the two main budget items of the Structural Funds and the CAP – France opposes this. In the European Commission's proposal, the structural funds are decreasing and the calculation methods are changing. In our view, while the Commission continues to base the calculation of appropriations on per capita gross domestic product, it seems essential that cohesion policy should target the most fragile territories and the most vulnerable populations more closely, in particular by establishing new criteria, in particular social and environmental ones. As for the CAP, it would be particularly affected: it falls drastically in an increasing budget. The European Commission's guidelines for the reform of this policy after 2020 tend to renationalize a large part of the funds. This could be a good thing if it allowed aid to be directed more towards small and medium-sized farms. It is necessary to preserve the construction of a model geared towards the ecological transition, thanks to the funds of the second pillar, as well as to prepare ourselves for various hazards and crises by creating safety nets, or crisis funds, for farmers. But without effective control, without a clear framework by the Commission along the lines I have just mentioned, renationalisation could lead to serious distortions of competition between Member States. This weakening of the two main policies of the Union cannot be fatal. Solutions exist. We can find new room for manoeuvre and thus finance the new priorities while preserving the old framework policies. To this end, it is urgent to release new own resources as envisaged in the Monti report presented in January 2017. These new resources may of course come from a call rate applied to the common consolidated corporate tax base, from a levy on the revenue of the European emissions trading scheme or from a national contribution on non-recycled plastic packaging waste. However, we need strong and significant measures, which define a political direction and thereby our values. That's why we need to go further. We absolutely must introduce an ambitious tax on digital technology and GAFA activity, and direct a substantial part of it to the European budget. These decisions would have two main advantages: to give the Union stable resources and less to give the impression to our citizens that we are signing a cheque to poorly known and misunderstood institutions. The forthcoming discussions on the multiannual financial framework should also provide an opportunity to respond to the current tensions within the European Union. Europe is founded on broad principles; non-compliance with these values cannot be without consequences. We can therefore consider making the payment of structural funds conditional on respect for the rule of law and human rights. Of course, it would be essential to work on the modalities of such a provision, so that this decision is not understood by European citizens as a punishment for having "bad vote". The question of political balance will also be fundamental if these paths of development are to be discussed and followed. As we all know, the Franco-German couple is a driving force; There are differences which could be an obstacle when discussing the multiannual financial framework. I will take only one example, striking: on the one hand, Germany supports with France the maintenance of CAP credits; On the other hand, it is more reluctant to see a significant increase in the overall volume of the European budget, which would result in an increase in its contribution. It is therefore essential to clarify certain points, beyond the so-called Meseberg declaration signed last June. As I mentioned in the preamble, the election of MEPs will take place in May 2019. If agreement was reached on the MFF before the election, some might question the legitimacy of measures that may no longer be in line with the will expressed by the millions of voters who will travel in the spring of 2019. However, this assumption of early agreement seems unrealistic because of the divisions we have seen since the beginning of the year. The next multiannual financial framework and, therefore, France's contribution will depend on the future balance in Parliament. Concerns could also arise if Eurosceptic groups were to impose drastic cuts in the future MFF. This would frustrate the need to strengthen funds, which is essential to do more together. This should lead us to question the timing of the MFF's discussions with the five-year electoral cycles of the European institutions. This organization may prevent strategic policy objectives from being defined prior to their budgetary translation; It seems logical not to vote on the multiannual financial framework before concluding the framework directives on the structural funds or on the CAP. The year 2019 will finally see the UK's exit from the European Union. After long months of negotiations, the British will leave the Union and will therefore no longer participate in the common budget. The loss of the United Kingdom's financial contribution could lead to an increase in the French contribution of 1 to 2 billion euros for 2019. In what form is this risk foreseen in the 2019 Finance Bill? The negotiation of the multiannual financial framework should also be used to discuss the abolition of the various existing rebates, in addition to the UK rebate. Madam Minister, I would like to conclude my remarks with a point concerning the organization of our debates. In view of the importance of the sums we are making to the European budget, we must ask ourselves about the framework within which our discussion takes place. It would, in my view, be interesting if the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union were to be debated with a vote, as provided for in Article 50-1 of the Constitution, and in the presence of the Prime Minister, as is the case with the important European Councils. Similarly, although the Assembly is supposed to adopt only the revenue from the Union's budget, not its expenditure, it should enter into a close partnership with the European Parliament during the forthcoming negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. The existing working group on the subject in the Committee on European Affairs should speak very regularly in 2019 to report on the progress of the discussions. On European issues, transparency and debate are sometimes complex. Some may be afraid of how a lack of knowledge or frustration can be expressed. But it is not by pursuing an uninclusive process for the 510 million Europeans, whether it be revenue or expenditure, that we will protect the common good of the European Union's values. The time is no longer at the moment of observation, but at the choice, at the test of reality. We must collectively assume what the European Union decides, because it is only the addition of the decisions of the Member States. Deeply committed to the European Union, to the values it has promoted for many years in terms of the independence of justice and the press or human rights, and to the European project, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of Article 37. (Applause from a few benches of the LaREM groups and the MODEM benches.)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u79	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u80	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the alternate chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteur-general, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, "What the European Union suffers most is the incoherence of the states, which have in common demands on it with the means by which they equip it". (Mr Alexandre Holroyd, Information Rapporteur, Mr Patrick Mignola and Mr Bruno Millienne applaud.) Bruno Joncour spoke in the rostrum last year in the same debate as today. I should stick to that, because this sentence says everything: it contains all the problems in which we are trapped. When it comes to requirements, we are served! Uncertainties, first of all, in particular that of Brexit, which is very heavy and will be all the more so as the exit will take place in bad conditions – even if we cannot make our partners the insult of believing that they will turn into professional bankers. Great challenges, then: demographic challenge, insufficiently taken into account by the leaders of the European Union; climate and environmental challenge; technological challenge; the challenge of cohesion. Threats, finally, that are general – Islamist threat, Russian aggression, American inconstancy, wild Chinese competition. The threat, which is everywhere, requires vigilance, mobilization and investment. These are the demands that Mr Joncour was talking about last year. In the face of them, it is true that the means are tragically insufficient. Let us not make a bad trial, neither the Government, which gives the right direction, nor the European institutions, whether it be the Commission or the Parliament. If they take into account these new challenges, as the documents provided to us attest, they are dramatically destitute because Europe, as it is, remains a theatre of shadows. What are we facing today? In truth, and to paraphrase Charles Perrault, we are forced to finance the shadow of a Europe, within the shadow of a budget, with the shadow of a tax. The shadow of a Europe, first, and in three areas. Firstly, freedoms: we have made a lot of movements in favour of freedoms, from the Treaty of Rome to the adoption of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, even though some of them are currently seriously threatened. Freedom costs nothing, or little, although it does not have any price. The second issue is solidarity: intergenerational solidarity, particularly in environmental matters; solidarity in cohesion – cohesion between East and West, cohesion between North and South, cohesion of the euro area. We see what needs to be done, we know it, we know it. But our solidarity is measured by the proportion of our national income we spend on the European budget – 1%. If we asked our compatriots how the tax they pay is distributed between France and Europe, they would probably say that France gets 60 or 70 % and Europe 40 or 30 %. We're way out of line! One percent is the congruent portion. With this, we must know, we cannot do what we want. After freedoms and solidarity comes power. Power is the ability to meet the challenges faced by threats. There, Europe is still in its infancy. For freedoms, that's very good; for cohesion, much has been done, with little money. But as for power, everything is to be invented – and everything begins to be so because those who believed, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, that one could receive the dividends of peace are for their own costs. Today, as we know, we live in a hard world where our interests will be defended by no one but ourselves. We therefore need to address the new challenges. We commend the Commission's efforts and the Government's commitments to that end. As the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Mr Leroy have said, we do not want to sacrifice Europe's traditional missions. We do not want to undress Jean Bonhomme to dress the raised man. The technological challenge must be met, but that is no reason to undo the only real common policy that we have so far managed to deploy. We will have to go much further than these simple measures, these signs of what we need to do, which are now being proposed by the Commission, in the context of what is only the shadow of a budget. It is a strange budget, indeed, that the European budget! It's a Lilliputian budget, I said. It is a hemiplegic budget: some control expenditure, others, resources. While the processes for achieving expenditure are relatively consistent – although the multi-annual financial framework is adopted unanimously – the articles on resources are paralysing. A treaty in the treaty is necessary to increase resources. But it is also a broken budget, in a series of headings, which leads to a budgetary game, where, as in Ruy Blas, the various ministers seek to recover what they have given.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u81	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u82	The just return is an unjust fool.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u84	The right return does not mean anything: if the purpose of the budget is to recover what is put in it, why have a budget? In reality, it's a strange lottery that the one whose big prize would be the refund of your ticket!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u85	That's what's going on!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u86	So we have to invent something else. Finally, it has been said, it is a poorly executed budget. This poor execution is only partly attributable to the Commission. All of us who are committed to decentralisation and the power of local and regional authorities must be alarmed at this because they are now responsible for the implementation of the Structural Funds. Obviously, there's a little delay in the ignition!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u87	Of course, the means are lacking!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u88	That's not the only reason...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u89	It takes officials to get the files up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u90	... but we must ensure our budgetary management, which is currently in accordon, with levies that go up and down at random from these executions. We must therefore transform the budget into more subsidiarity, because we must not spend more at European level, but rather spend what we do not spend at national level. Better spending is needed, i.e. spending at the most efficient level, either European, national or regional. More flexibility is needed. This budget, with all its headings, is the negation of the principles of unity, of universality that we were taught at school. There is also a need for more democracy, because there is no budget without a fully democratic power, both in terms of resources and expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u91	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u92	People's control!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u93	Finally, the revenue levy is the shadow of a tax. It's a perversion instrument. If this is indeed a tax, because it is compulsory and without direct consideration, it is paid not by the citizens, but by the States, which encourages national selfishness and the perversion of the principle of just return. That is what must be refused. We must therefore follow another path. As you have all rightly said, ladies and gentlemen, we must end this, and very quickly, with the discounts, not only because this deletion is good in itself, but also because it is good for France. In this case, France, a net contributor, has no reason to feed complexes about its contribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u94	All right! Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u95	We need to move resolutely towards the creation of a clean resource. In this regard, we must favour two sources: the corporate tax levy – the 3% – and, of course, the digital business tax, by supporting the Government's efforts to create it. The rest is important. Let us know, when we have done this, we will have travelled only a very small part of the way. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are still confronted with the institutional obstacle, the rule of unanimity. It is unanimity that prevents us from developing a real own resources policy, a multi-annual financial framework that is not a white negotiation operation between States, or applying the principle of conditionality of aid. It is still unanimity that prevents us from pursuing a harmonised tax policy or a real policy to combat tax havens. This is an essential matter! Of course, unanimity is not just an institutional rule, but also a symbol of our lack of mutual trust. As Pierre Mendès France said, "the enemy, the greatest enemy, is called mistrust." That is what we must overcome. But let us be clear: for a strong Europe, a respected Europe, a united Europe, a Europe as we like it, we must change certain institutional rules. This is essentially the paradox of Bossuet: God mocks men who curse the consequences of what they cherish the causes. (Applause from the MODEM Group and the Committees.)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u96	God vomits the lukewarm!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u97	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u98	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I want to welcome the quality of the report – although I do not appreciate the conclusions – and, once again, the debate organised by the Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The position of the group La France insubmissive – which is expressed in this debate as part of the European movement Now the People!, bringing together a series of parties and organisations in all countries – is known to you. There are a long way to go, and it is not serious to talk about Europe as if today's Europe was the same as when it was founded. The Six was not the Six's, just like the Six's was not the Twenty-Hight's. Without the Soviet Union and the balance of terror, Europe does not have the same relationship either between its members or with the rest of the world. Our political generation – I'm not talking about our age – is dealing with a completely different reality. Anyway, this story has brought us to the point where we're here. Brexit is the beginning of a debandade, which is observed in many ways. The stalemate is coming to light. The biggest risk is now the pure and simple explosion. To guard against it, the protests are multiplied, although moving, but they are merely pious vows, without any real object. We should either accept everything and persevere in the current path or leave. There would be nothing in between. But this nothing is France's place, the discourse it can hold, the constructive attitude it can adopt. France must play a role as a manufacturer; It must not accompany the debandade. That is the idea that we are making of our country's place at this moment in history. Nevertheless, we have built Europe for peace; and now everyone aspires to create a Europe of defence, that is, a Europe of war. We built Europe for social progress because we wanted to show, in the face of the Soviet Union, that social progress and democracy were possible. And now we have just adopted a European foundation of social rights that is less protective than the European Social Charter that preceded it. Europe, it was said, had at least this good that it allowed us to progress in the field of ecology; And now she's allowing glyphosate for another five years before a new discussion. You misunderstand yourself if you think we are frexiters or "sortists." That's not what we're talking about. We want to prevent us from following the slope to dislocation and chaos; We want to prevent France from being defeated in order to make an absolutely crazy Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of those among you who are most passionate about Europe, how can I not stress the contradiction that there is to be claimed a sovereign Europe without proposing a further step in favour of popular sovereignty in Europe? I say this to the majority, who is constantly talking about European sovereignty: a Frenchman, when he talks about sovereignty, thinks about the people's sovereignty. We should therefore build a European people by giving them sovereignty. Do you propose it? No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u99	We proposed it, and we voted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u100	How can you believe in a Europe that can act if you devote 1% of the total wealth of the countries that make up it to it every year? How can you believe that such an organisation, which asks us 9 billion euros more than what we receive from it, can do anything other than stumble without end? It was said that the desire to recover his property would not be an attitude of solidarity. I agree; But then let's look at what the 9 billion that, for us French, represents a sumptuous expenditure is for. France's contribution has increased by 15% over two years. I do not want to make a comparison too painful, but in the same period, in our country, the housing budget has been cut by 12 per cent and the employment budget by 26 per cent. So it's not nothing! We are the second largest net contributor, representing 13.5% of our deficit. You who like comparisons with a family's budget: which family would decide to give in an unseasonal and uncompensated manner some 13% more of its debt? That's not reasonable! This expenditure is all the more sumptuous because it is useless because, in reality, we are paying for others. Now, you all condemn the discount and discount of the discount. Last year, I was a little alone in this register; I'm glad we all agree now. Mrs Thatcher did not want to pay the British share; we French, always chivalrous, have agreed to pay in their place. Then, the Germans demanded a discount on their support of the British rebate. The continent's first economic power, with a budget surplus of EUR 50 billion, has claimed to require us to pay instead the discount it does not want to finance; And we agreed. Is that normal? A year ago, I was almost accused of Germanophobia for speaking this way. I imagine that today everyone agrees that all this is unreasonable, whether it is the report of France to the rest of Europe or the negotiation of a carpet merchant in which we pay for each other, so much so that in the end we no longer know for whom we are paying or for what. We pay for Germany. But if we are afraid, it seems, to offend Germany – let's say, "the German right-wing government", this will facilitate the reports – by celebrating the 1918 victory we won against Germany, we do not fear that it will offend us when it decides to exchange an East mark against a West mark and that it costs another EUR 100 billion – this is what the reunification of Germany and this monetary decision cost us, French. It's a fact! Let us return to this reality instead of the hollow and languorous discourses on the relations of the Franco-German couple. We're the stuffing turkeys. The Commission is now asking us to repay some of the aid received under the CAP. In 2014, we were asked to repay €428 million – for those who don't know what this is, it's the equivalent of HLM 2850; in 2015, we were asked 512 million euros, i.e. the salary of 5000 teachers; in 2016, 656 million euros, representing the salary of 20,000 health-care workers in EHPAD; in 2017, EUR 581 million, i.e. 45,000 aided contracts. We are paying for a poorly managed European budget. Do you know that every year, the "remains to be liquidated" – the sum of the outstanding commitments – represent sums that those responsible should be ashamed of. Yet, the same people teach us all the time about how we manage France's budget. It is 188 billion euros that have not been paid in 2014 and 300 billion euros that will not be paid in 2019 – the equivalent of two years of European budget. In 2014, unpaid invoices amounted to EUR 25 billion. Thus the budget of the European Union is managed by those who come to tell us how much we have the right to spend for our roads, hospitals, schools and for all the public goods on which the life of the nation depends. We're paying for an inefficient, chattering, and burgeoning bureaucracy. In 2019, €10 billion is spent on administration in the European budget. Between 2007 and 2020, this expenditure will have increased by 25 per cent, an increase of 4.3 per cent per year, compared with 1.6 per cent in France. The salaries are absolutely crazy: 225,000 euros per year for the director-general of the commission; EUR 315000 for the President of the European Central Bank. We pay for the destruction of borders. Liberalism between the European Union and the rest of the world is constantly lowering tariffs. As a result, their share of the Union budget is decreasing. Today, customs duties account for 14% of the European budget, compared with 30% in 1998, while state contributions account for 66%, compared with 10% in 1998. Last but not least, we pay for the destruction of our social model, that is, we subsidize those who ruin it. Under the Structural Funds, we have given Poland EUR 84 billion while its 61000 posted workers in France do not pay social contributions there and will not pay them any more after the agreement that has just been reached on the revision of the Directive; €3.3 billion was allocated to Ireland to allow it to set its corporate tax rate at only 12.5%, and it still refuses to recover the money owed by companies according to the European Commission; Bulgaria received EUR 10 billion, while the minimum wage is EUR 235 per month and posted workers do not pay the contributions; EUR 29 billion was given to Romania, which abolished all paid social contributions in 2017. That's the reality! This reality is a drift that will end in a crash. We need to negotiate and cooperate, not to organise competition among all. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bourlanges, if you want to prevent Europe from collapsing, if you want nations to cooperate, then there is an urgent need to deal with the problem of state debt – I am not talking about private debt. We all know that no one will ever be able to pay such a large amount of debt. A European debt conference could help to find the technical solutions that would revive the continent's economy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Secondly, there is an urgent need for a border conference. If the Brexit negotiations fail, it is because they are stumbling down on the question of the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. Better is a border conference than permanent arms at all borders – many borders within Europe are breaking out. Each time, cooperation, dialogue and decision-making are preferable to injunctions from a blind Commission applying treaties that are the cause of all these disasters. We need to get out of the European treaties – this is my conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u101	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor, in the name of the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u102	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union faces many challenges – migration, competitiveness, the digital revolution, climate change – and unprecedented scepticism towards it. This scepticism, which you also call populism, is inevitable when we stop listening to people. And even if you don't like it, people still know what they want for Europe and remind you more and more urgently: in the United Kingdom with Brexit, in Hungary, in Poland, in Italy and in Germany too. I know your theory: we intoxicate citizens, we stuff their heads with fake news, which leads them to vote badly, or rather to vote according to what they think is right, and not according to your interests and calculations. Let's talk about numbers and budget. The French contribution to the European Union budget has been steadily increasing for more than 20 years. It increased fivefold between 1982 and 2018, from EUR 4.1 billion in 1982 to EUR 20.2 billion in 2018 and to EUR 21.5 billion in 2019. And this increase will not stop in such a good way since the new multi-annual financial framework for the period 2021-2027 implies a further increase in the French contribution of around €6.3 billion, more than 30% compared with the period 2014-2020! What are the priorities? Research and innovation, which sees their spending double; Youth and its famous Erasmus programme; external actions, security and defence; migration and border management, in particular the increase in Frontex's staff from 1200 to 10,000 men – a good thing, I would like to point out! Perhaps we will finally see the hotspots Mr. Macron promised during his election campaign? Perhaps, under pressure from the Member States that refuse to accept all migration, the European Union will finally understand that we must act and take the situation in hand. One word about the CAP and its planned reduction: such a fall in a sharply increasing budget cannot be accepted. It is of course necessary, in order to take your words into account, to finance the issues at stake. But what issues are we talking about in agricultural matters? I will return once again to this rostrum, and I will do so as much as is necessary: as long as there is no real harmonisation of rules between European countries, as long as certain States, such as Spain, can continue to use plant protection products banned in France, and then sell their products to us without even specifying on the label the way in which they were produced or cultivated, you will not make farmers join your European Union, because, for them, this distortion of competition is a real betrayal. Let us also talk about the increase in the administrative expenditure of the institutions of the European Union proposed by the Commission: how can we impose ever more savings on the French, how can we get the local authorities to sign contracts for good management if the European institutions are exempt from this duty of rigour? Again, it is incomprehensible and totally unfair to the French! Today, Europe deserves a real debate. I hope that the next elections will provide us with an opportunity. For hesitating to talk about these dysfunctions, these misunderstandings, is simply refusing to talk about the peoples, therefore denying them. You underestimate the French' growing lack of understanding of Europe. How can we justify the entry into force of a commercial treaty such as the CETA without having been previously validated by the French Parliament? How can we explain Europe's failure, unable to agree on a common defence policy or to find effective solutions against ever greater immigration? How can we explain the vote-sanction against Hungary in the name of human rights and the principles of the rule of law, and the vote, at the same time, of subsidies to Turkey, a country that does not respect fundamental freedoms? Do you think the French are fools? No one will fight for a big economic market in the service and glory of a cold technocracy as far away from our fellow citizens – be sure! On the other hand, people will be ready to join and fight for a Europe that respects its culture, history and civilization. Mr Macron said that both French and European culture existed. It is the fact that we have forgotten it in favour of a consumerist approach to life and society that creates such a mistrust of the European Union. There's still time for a change of approach. I have only one certainty: no one can make Europe without the peoples!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u103	We come to the discussion of article 37. Mr Jacques Maire, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u104	We are about to vote on Article 37 on the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union. This big effort, of 21.5 billion euros, up 8%, is absolutely not a blank check. It is, on the contrary, an invitation to reform Europe, because it is going through a deep crisis – nobody denies it, Mrs Ménard. The European budget for 2019 is, of course, constrained by the financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020, but we are already seeing new priorities, such as the European Solidarity Corps, for young people, or the European Defence Fund. However, this is absolutely not enough: Europe must show courage for the future when defining the financial framework for the years 2021 to 2027. For its part, I must say, the European Commission has had this courage. It has proposed choices to match the challenges of the future, for example in research and innovation, with Horizon Europe; on the competitiveness of enterprises, which it intends to strengthen considerably; in the field of training, with the doubling of the resources allocated to the Erasmus+ programme; in border and migration management, with the European Border and Coast Guard. However, that is not enough: States must be brave too. Brexit will lose EUR 14 billion a year to the European budget, and this will mainly affect France, as its contribution will increase by more than one billion. How can we show courage? I will give two examples. [[Smile]] We must first clean up the opaque management of the European budget. We must put an end to the accumulation of corpses in the closets, including the one left by Mrs Thatcher – I did not say: that of Mrs Thatcher... I mean the Danish, Austrian, Swedish and Dutch discounts, little brothers of the British discount, which went to school. Secondly, we must apply the rules on the reduction of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds – in this case, I do not agree with the excellent report that you have drawn up as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr President. The implementation of these criteria will exclude many eligible areas, particularly in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. It is necessary, both for them and for us: it will be a source of savings. And, of course, the requirements of the rule of law must also be respected. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, we need a strong Europe. Some here consider that the revenues of the 1980s are out of date. However, dear friends of the Republican Group, these revenues are the qualified majority and the control of the Court of Justice. Do you prefer the blockages linked to unanimity? Do you prefer the challenges to the rule of law posed by Mr Orbán or Mr Kaczynski? I don't believe it. We need a strong Europe, as we need a strong France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u105	I have before me an amendment to Rule 37, point 2478. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u106	He will not surprise you: he is in line with my speech during the debate. France's contribution to the European Union budget continues to increase, and it is not expected that this will stop. In 2019, we will spend more than 21 billion euros, 1.6 billion more than last year. I do not hide my concern at this upsurge, especially as the European budget is increasingly dependent on national contributions, because the Union's own resources are dwindling dangerously. It seems to me perilous to encourage this phenomenon. In addition, as I said during my speech, expenditure on the institutions itself is constantly increasing: it will reach EUR 10 billion in 2019. The European Court of Auditors points to the lack of clarity in the Union's expenditure programmes. Why ask the French and local authorities for more and more efforts without demanding the same efforts from the European institutions? How can we explain to the French that we impose regulations and sacrifices on the communities while closing our eyes to the constant increase in the European budget? Moreover, even as pensioners are increasingly taxed in France, it is learned that in France's contribution to the European Union budget, €13 million is earmarked to finance part of the €68 million promised to Turkey under the Berlin Protocol to deal with the issue of Syrian immigrants. However, the Union has no real control over the matter, while the Erdogan regime is increasingly concerned. These expenses must be stopped, or at least controlled. They are expensive and do not serve the different European nations. That is why I propose to reduce France's contribution to the Union's budget. I believe that the European Commission will not be able to blame us for this, since it constantly urges us to reduce our deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u107	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u108	There is, in my view, a certain contradiction in your remarks, ma'am. You told us that the CAP appropriations should not be reduced over the period 2021 to 2027. However, if we cut the 2019 revenue levy by a few million euros, which is part of the financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020, there will be mechanical victims, and I fear that the current CAP beneficiaries will be part of it. I therefore express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u110	The € 21.5 billion of appropriations entered in the draft finance law for 2019 for France's contribution to the European budget are international commitments. We therefore have an obligation to pay the full amount. Therefore, I too express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u111	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u112	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u113	On Friday evening, the Assembly stopped to Amendment No 587, introducing an additional Rule after Rule 26. Amendments Nos 587, 728, 767 and 1078 are identical. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 587.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u114	It is, in a way, an amendment of consistency. When local authorities invest in the acquisition of clean vehicles, such as hybrid vehicles, they benefit from the value added tax compensation fund – VATIF – if they purchase cash. However, they do not benefit from it if they use a lease, i.e. a long-term lease. This is a form of injustice. To encourage communities to invest in the purchase of clean vehicles, we propose that, in the case of long-term rental, rent – and only rent – can be recovered from the VATCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u115	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 728.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u116	It is identical to the previous one. In addition, I simply quote two figures: the local authority fleet consists of 75 per cent diesel vehicles and nearly 20 per cent gasoline vehicles. Allowing communities to benefit from TVCF in the event of long-term leases would help those who want to engage in the green and energy transition. That would be a very good support measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u117	Amendments Nos 767 by Mr Stanislas Guerini and 1078 by Mr Vincent Ledoux are defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u118	I understand the logic behind them, since I have been at the origin of a reflection on the fate of local and regional authorities, which do not always have the possibility to invest and replace very obsolete equipment, which is very expensive, with new equipment, which would be intelligent. The amendments call for a complete change in the logic of the VATF: it compensates for a flat-rate share of VAT paid by the local authorities on investment expenditure; In the present case, it would be to compensate for a fraction of the rent fixed by the lessor which would represent the investment made by the lessor. These issues need to be deepened, perhaps in a specific working group. We must ask ourselves about the virtue of the investment when it is carried out by the asing or by another transaction rather than by simple leasing. However, these amendments do not fit into the PLF. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u119	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1453.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u120	This amendment raises the same question: how can we accompany the digital transformation of our society? It is known that local and regional authorities will have a real role to play in this development, in particular in developing access to digital technology. It is also known that it no longer makes sense to invest in tablets or computers. It is better to rent them for a medium or long term. In this context, how can communities benefit from the TVCF? I have heard the arguments of the rapporteur-general and the minister. I have tabled this appeal amendment in order to begin the reflection. Perhaps we will begin this when we examine the finances of local communities. In any case, it is important that we adapt to current uses our tools to support the investment of local and regional authorities. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u121	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 1223.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u122	The VATF, established in 1976, is a levy on the revenue of the State intended to offset the VAT payments made by the local authorities and the beneficiary public institutions on their actual investment expenditure. This rate shall be fixed in an aggregate and flat-rate manner. In our view, it does not take sufficient account of the daily realities of some communities, including small communities. With the decline in aid to local authorities, as pointed out by the Court of Auditors in a recent report on local finance, local public investment has been more affected in small communities than in large ones. As a result, we propose that the rate of VATF be increased by 0.5% for small municipalities – with fewer than 5000 inhabitants – so that they receive specific support, commensurate with the challenges they face. The rest of the investment – such as the renovation of a church – weighs much more on the smaller communes, which have fewer souls, than on the larger ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u124	I am all the more sensitive to Mr. Dufrègne's speech because he has a beautiful church in his constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u125	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u126	When you get your head into the debredinary, if you're a jerk, you're smart. I've already tried the experiment... More seriously, to support municipal investment, the Government has chosen to spend a great deal of money on the provision of equipment in rural areas – DETR – and on the provision of support for local investment – DSIL. The proposed solution would not have a significant impact. Of course, communities with an investment deficit would receive more VATF, but, precisely, they make few investments... It is better to rely on higher rates of funding under the DETR and the DSIL, on some projects, rather than playing on the TVCF. Unfavorable opinion... despite the debredinary!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u127	Amendment No 1131 by Mr Arnaud Viala is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u128	The amendment would not remove the general operating allocation – DGF – from the departments concerned. I therefore maintain my unfavorable opinion last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u129	Mr Joaquim Pueyo, in support of Amendment No. 2136, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u130	This amendment by the Socialist and Related Group goes back to the amendments made by Article 27 to the list of conditions for the benefit of active solidarity income – RSA. Currently, according to article L. 262-4 of the Code of Social Action and Families, the benefit of the RSA is subject to the respect, by the beneficiary, of several well-known conditions. The Government takes advantage of the fact that it recentralizes the RSA to the French Guiana and Mayotte communities alone to change the eligibility conditions in these territories. The beneficiary must be French or have held, for at least 15 years, a residence permit authorizing him to work, knowing that this condition does not apply to persons entitled to the RSA supplement who must be French or have held, for at least five years, a residence permit authorizing him to work. There is no justification for treating the beneficiaries of the RSA, financed by national solidarity, according to the territories. We therefore invite you to reconsider this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u132	I remain faithful to the decision announced by the President of the Republic at the overseas meetings in October 2017. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u133	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1876.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u134	Generally speaking, the Code of Social Action and Families provides that foreigners from a non-EU country may benefit from active solidarity income if they have held a residence permit allowing them to work in France for at least five years. In Guyana and Mayotte, the Government wants to extend the period of detention of a residence permit to 15 years. He thus gave way to the speech on the so-called "air appeal" which would be generated by the allocation of social benefits to foreigners, with a particular focus on Guyana. Although the migration issue in those territories was particularly sensitive, the solution did not lie in reforms that would accredit the worst theories. Ultramarine territories have fought for many years to achieve social equality. The Government was beginning to reverse those rights, which had been obtained from a high struggle. Instead of introducing an unfair and ineffective measure, we propose a major regional co-development policy for these territories, as well as a catch-up plan that will enable the ultramarine territories to reach at least the level of the hexagon in terms of public services. For the moment, we are proposing the abolition of this measure, so that Republican equality is not again attacked. [[Mr. Eric Coquerel applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if all our territories are to be equal, then the law must apply equally everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u135	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u136	The amendment raises the same issue as the previous one. Same unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u137	Amendments Nos 1959, 1960, 1961, 1963, 1964, 1966, 1967, 1968, 1970, 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1977, 1978, 1979, 1980, 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1988, 1986 and 1987 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u138	Here's a case that's been done!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u139	The next speaker is Mr Eric Coquerel, who is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u140	We oppose Article 28 which, despite appearances, continues the policy of transferring austerity from the state to the communities. Perhaps this transfer is a little smaller in volume than the one we have seen since 2010, but the situation has become very difficult for local and regional authorities, especially the municipalities, and the social situation has worsened. However, while transfers of government revenue to local and regional authorities are facially stable, the real decline between 2018 and 2019 will be €751 million if inflation and population growth are taken into account. In the same vein, the DGF, which is also 26.9 billion euros, is also facially stable, but in reality, if we take into account again the inflation and the rise of the population, which will inevitably generate more expenditure for the communities, there is a real decrease of 467 million euros, while the communities will be hit by the abolition of the housing tax, of which it is not yet well known how it will be compensated, and by the abolition of aided contracts, which are often very useful. The daily life of the French will be affected once again, through the services provided to them by the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u141	I have before me six amendments, Nos 2139, 2138, 2154, 2137, 642 and 641, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2139, 2138, 2154 and 2137 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u142	Amendment No 2139 is a fallback amendment. It guarantees the amendment tabled in Article 23 to increase the amount of the DGF by EUR 60 million, in order to finance an increase in the allocation of urban solidarity – DSU – and the allocation of rural solidarity – DSR – by EUR 30 million each. As a reminder, the finance law for 2018 has upgraded the DSU by €110 million and the DSR by €90 million. The 2019 Finance Bill proposes to upgrade these two allocations by €90 million each. These allocations are the only dynamic recipe for the budget of the poorest municipalities in our country, whether rural or urban, which suffer from the lack of real fiscal leverage, the weakness of local direct tax exemption compensations and the freeze on horizontal equalization proposed by the 2019 Finance Bill. The objective of equalization is not simply to compensate, but to reduce the wealth gap between rich and poor communes. As a result, dynamic vertical equalization is needed. As for the origin of the EUR 60 million required, it is traditional for such increases to be financed by the communities themselves, through movements within the DGF envelope, for example, as was the case last year. That is why we propose to finance the entire measure by an increase in the DGF envelope. Amendments Nos 2138, 2154 and 2137 are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u143	I have before me two amendments, Nos 642 and 641, which can be presented together. Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u144	Active solidarity income affects the budgets of the departments – which, being competent in the field of integration, are responsible for ensuring their financing. The aim of Amendment No 642 by my colleague Damien Abad is to double the departmental mobilization fund for integration, in order to deal with the difficulties encountered. Several departments are in serious financial difficulty. College equipment is one of the most affected positions, while adolescent education should be a priority. To remedy this, Amendment No 641 aims to double the departmental allocation of equipment for colleges.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u145	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u146	Amendments Nos 2139 to 2137 aim to draw the consequences of amendments that have not been adopted. It is therefore difficult for me not to give an unfavorable opinion. By Amendments Nos 642 and 641, relating to colleges, you propose to double the amount of certain appropriations. So you will understand that I refer you to the local government funding bill that I hope will be submitted to us in 2019. Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u147	Amendment No 1989 corrected by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u148	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2058, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u149	Local and regional authorities receive a DGF which is constantly decreasing.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u150	At a time when the President is talking about "greater freedom of communities" and the Government is trying to "renew relations with local and regional authorities", I find the process a little special! Between 2013 and 2018, the DGF was almost divided by two...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u151	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u152	...from 41.5 billion to 26.9 billion euros: funny way to support the territories! I understand that local and regional authorities are also obliged to make savings and participate in the effort, but it would be good if this effort were not one-way. Article L. 2334-7-3 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, in its drafting resulting from the 2015 Finance Act, established a curious system. Indeed, for some municipalities, the DGF is not only zero but still negative: the State punctuates them part of their revenue by means of a levy on their tax revenues. In 2015, the levy amounted to €2.1 million, but this year it will amount to €26.5 million for municipalities and almost €35 million for EPCI – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation. A total of 439 municipalities and 132 EPCI own taxation are involved this year. We could talk about a double sentence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u153	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u154	This amendment is a consequence of the introduction of the contribution to the recovery of public finances – the CRFP – which weighed on the richest municipalities. The PSPC has disappeared, but the negative FB has remained in place. However, the latter affects municipalities with particularly high resources. It seems to me, therefore, that by going back to these provisions, a very unequal system would be established. Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u155	I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support Amendment No. 2187.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u156	Mr Minister, we discussed the financing of the additional cost of the Grand Paris Express at the beginning of the year. This amendment complements Gilles Carrez's proposals on the financing of this large metro. In this way, it aims to contribute to the construction of car parks around the stations of the Grand Paris Express in order to improve intermodality. The Grand Paris Express represents a very important investment on the part of the State, which must, in the long term, better serve the small-kronor territories, but also reduce road traffic. However, if large car drivers are not offered enough car parks and do not enjoy sufficient intermodality in these stations, the Grand Paris Express will not be of optimal use. The aim of this amendment is therefore to increase by 5%, for companies located in zone 2, the planned office tax in addition to the 10% increase in the same tax on French companies located in zone 1, not only to finance the additional cost of the Grand Paris Express, but also to give the Grand Paris company more means to build car parks around railway stations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u157	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u158	This amendment complements the recommendations of the report by our colleague Gilles Carrez, who proposes an increase in the office tax in Zone 1 by 10%. Since I do not see Mr Carrez's amendment to introduce this increase, I think it would be better, from a legal point of view, for you to agree on a common amendment; This would allow us to have both parts of this legal structure. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u159	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u160	[[Smile]] I will say about the same thing as the rapporteur-general – less well, of course. I refer you to the second part of the finance bill, Mr. Member of Parliament. The securing of the financing of Greater Paris is an important subject on which Mr Carrez has submitted a report to the Prime Minister, which of course is of great interest to parliamentarians, especially those who have been elected in francilian constituencies. This debate will take place when joint or complementary amendments are discussed in the second part of the PLF. The lead you are referring to is very interesting, but if the provision you are proposing were passed in the first part of the bill, it would, by nature, be retroactive. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u161	Mr Rupin, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u162	No, I withdraw it pending the debate in the second part of the bill. I have already agreed with Gilles Carrez in this perspective. I thank the rapporteur-general and the minister for their response.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u163	Mr Dino Cinieri, first inscribed on Rule 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 29 introduces a drastic drain on the resources of the Chambers of Commerce and Industry – CCI – to which we are firmly opposed: a further decline in their resources in 2019 would inevitably lead to a threat to the proximity support they provide and, therefore, to a widening of the territorial divide. As you know, only the CCIs located in the richest and most dynamic territories will be able to absorb this new budget restriction by offering more services invoiced. In addition, since ITCs are the only support structures in some 20 hyper-rural territories, business support could disappear, especially since, at this stage, the Government has no mechanism to maintain a basic base of services for very small, small and medium-sized enterprises in these areas. I therefore ask you to give up this reduction in resources. The entrepreneurial solidarity of which the members of the KICs are the defenders is indispensable in our territories. In order to ensure the stability of the fiscal resources allocated to the KIC network for 2019, we will defend amendments aimed at removing the further reduction envisaged by this bill, as well as the one planned for 2020, which run counter to the promises made by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u165	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u166	The Committee on Economic Affairs has received an opinion on Rule 29. Our committee has discussed a great deal about the decline in resources allocated to chambers of commerce and industry. While we did not adopt amendments in committee on the KICs, many Commissioners felt that there was a need to reflect on ways not to interfere with the House's means of action in 2019. The amendment we have adopted in the Committee on Economic Affairs deals with another subject: the ceiling of the Training Council Fund. The amendment was not adopted in the Committee on Finance, but the rapporteur-general felt that the debate should take place in the Chamber. I will therefore defend this amendment just now, while insisting on the fact that it is strategic for the survival and development of the artisans' work tool. Our committee felt that it was necessary to sanctify the entire effort of the artisans to contribute to their training. I hope, Mr Minister, the rapporteur-general, that you will also be sensitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u167	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u168	Minister, with regard to the KICs, you stated before the National Assembly, at the third sitting of October 21, 2017: "They are offered, once and for all, the quinquennium – it is written in the finance bill and I repeat here – to provide part of the contribution to the public effort. » On November 14, 2017, in the Senate's Economic Affairs Committee, Bruno Le Maire said: "In 2017, IAB resources had been maintained to facilitate restructuring, which, however, varied from one department or region to another. In return for today's effort, we are committed to ensuring the stability of their resources in 2019-2022. » On December 14, 2017, the Minister of Economy and Finance responded as follows to the written questions of several senators on the evolution of resources allocated to KICs: "The Government has made a commitment, as part of the 2018-2020 three-year trajectory, that no further reductions will be made in 2019 and 2020, in order to give the network a multi-year visibility of its resources. » Article 29 of the PLF totally undermines the commitments that the Government has made on several occasions to the national representation and to the KICs. Minister, you hold as much to the value of public speech as we do. So keep your commitments and amend Rule 29, as we will propose by amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u169	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u170	The question of the affected taxes is always a long debate; For my part, Minister, I am in favour of their capping, because it allows for an annual budget debate. I am surprised that the number of capped assigned taxes has increased from ninety-one in the PLF for 2018 – for a total product of 9.08 billion – to eighty-six in the PLF for 2019, for a product of 9.3 billion. In addition, the choices you made about capping seem questionable to me. Thus, the contribution to student life did not previously have a ceiling; you have a ceiling of EUR 95 million, while it has a ceiling of EUR 140 million. The loss of resources for student life amounts to 45 million euros. Another point that raises questions, Minister: the local public property establishments, for which you have reduced the ceilings of 10 million euros in the PLF for 2019. Finally, for the first time, taxes on water agencies exceed the ceiling – which, it is true, had been substantially reduced in previous years. Water agencies, however, play an extremely important role, as evidenced by the water bases currently being organized by the Government. Mr Minister, I would like us to open a debate on this, and to allow these agencies to regain budgetary margin, both for the large water cycle – in other words, river management, the importance of which has been stressed by the events in the Aude – and for the small water cycle, which enables municipalities and unions to support the construction of sewage treatment plants. These three components – student life, local public land institutions and water agencies – would justify a review of the Government's position.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u171	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u172	Article 29 provides for the reduction of a large number of affected taxes, in particular those for the French leather, furnishing, table arts and watchmaking industries. Many sectors have industrial technical centres or professional economic development committees, the role of which has been reaffirmed on several occasions, for example in the report submitted by Ms Clotilde Valter in October 2014, which stressed the quality of management and the relevance of the ITC model and which reinforced them as an industrial policy tool. Another report from the Court of Auditors showed that the resources derived from the tax played the role of a mutualised investment for the French leather sector. We need to discuss what we want to do with ITCs and these channels. The watch industry is concerned; You mentioned, particularly in the case of the leather sector, the possibility of replacing compulsory voluntary contributions with the affected taxes. This need to be discussed, as mandatory voluntary contributions cannot legally apply to import taxation, which would have a significant impact on highly importing industries. We need these sectors, especially to export, at a time when we regularly complain about the weakness of French companies' exports. The turnover of the French leather industry has increased by 40% since 2013; This strong growth has led to a significant capping of the resources it derives from the affected tax. The decrease that you are proposing today comes down from the increase in the ceiling decided only two years ago. There was therefore a need for a debate on the Government's policy on affected taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u173	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u174	The finance law is obviously an opportunity to set the hierarchy of budgetary choices, and hence political and technical choices. Heat production is an essential area of energy consumption, and technical developments that favour renewable production should be a priority. The current rate of investment will clearly not achieve the announced targets of a quarter of energy in this area being renewable by 2020 and a third by 2030. The law should encourage investment in renewable heat production. This strategy would be "win-win", including for public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u175	Mr Robin Reda's deletion amendment No 368 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u176	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn, because the deletion of Article 29 would affect many other matters than the tax resources of chambers of commerce and industry, such as the allocation of resources from water agencies and even ceiling increases. I do not think that the author of the amendment wished to delete all the provisions of the article. If it were retained, I would therefore express an opinion against its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u178	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u179	Mr Eric Woerth, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1611.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u180	I would like to ask the minister to clarify the issue of affected taxes. They represent EUR 30 billion, which is a lot of money, much of which goes to social security. About one third – EUR 9 billion – comes from capped assigned taxes, the ceiling allowing around EUR 1 billion to be returned to the general budget. The ceiling affects organizations that often need funds: Valérie Rabault noted it for student life, but it also concerns public audiovisual, for example. There is a tax on electronic communications operators, known as the "Cope tax" – even if there are several – but the cap on this tax involves budgetary resources and the fee, since part of the revenue from the tax, which was to finance the public audiovisual sector, is taken over. This is also true for the KICs, which we will mention earlier, for the National Centre for the Development of Sport, etc. The situation is not clear: it is a maquis in which we hesitate between financing from the budget and financing from the affected taxes. The latter were created for specific reasons, and now they suddenly abound in the general budget. You, Minister, are hunting small taxes and the opacity of the tax system, to which the management of the affected taxes contributes a great deal. This is a call amendment – almost a call for help, by the way! – which asks the Government to clarify this case and the very notion of capping.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u182	Mr. President, may I ask you a favor? The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance wanted to be present during the discussion of the amendments on the KICs – we have indeed taken a bit of a step forward – but it will only be there at twenty-one and thirty hours: could you adjourn the sitting before the discussion of these amendments? This would allow parliamentarians to obtain a direct response from the Minister of Economy and Finance to their questions. Mr President of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, who have spoken, in particular President Rabault, I will answer you in a number of points. First of all, article 2 of the Organic Law on Finance Laws provides...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u183	We don't dispute it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u184	... – I say so that everyone understands our debate, Mrs Rabault – the possibility of creating assigned taxes for public service missions. These taxes must remain exceptional, as they contradict the principle of budgetary universality. This morning, I heard a great Minister of the Republic talk about the fact that not all resources were allocated to a specific theme; If we did, we would no longer have any money, whatever the minister of the budget, to finance national education, the army or the police, because a tax on children or on military fighting would be quite unremunerative in terms of the funds we allocate to these public policies. We must therefore maintain this principle of budgetary universality. In 2012, the legislator, assisted by the Government, introduced a cap on these taxes created by LOLF. At that time, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, it reached EUR 3 billion and today amounts to almost EUR 10 billion – EUR 9.3 billion in memory – that is, you are right, about a third of the proceeds of these taxes. These affected taxes tend to grow, as a result of a threefold cause, with Parliament sometimes showing little interest in this matter. The first is its educational virtue: an activity is taxed and allocated to an expenditure relating to the field concerned, such as the tax created by Mrs Buffet, which takes money from the market constituted by sports rights to redistribute it to the world of sport; Everyone can understand this mechanism. The problem is that these devices have been multiplied. The second cause of this multiplication comes from the growth of revenues: the question of the need for expenditure arose too late, in any case after the nature of the recipe had been imagined; That is why I have refused the debate on the renewal of the audiovisual fee, to take up a topical issue. Thirdly, Mr President of the Finance Committee, the affected taxes must be capped, because some bodies must contribute to the recovery of public finances – an effort that amounts to 260 million euros in this draft finance law. The main concern, which may be yours and that of parliamentarians, is that the taxes affected partly prevent parliamentary control, as they circumvent Parliament's consent to tax and its power to allocate appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u185	That's why there's a ceiling!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u186	Yes, the height of that ceiling being debated, as you said, Madam President Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u187	The ceiling is voted by Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u188	After the principle comes the policy of the Government. I do not think that the parallel you have established with the removal of small taxes is justified, Mr President. Mrs Rabault, public policy is not judged in the first part of the finance bill, in the affected taxes or their ceiling, but in the second part, in the budget appropriations. In an ideal budgetary world, the revenue collected in the first part would be distributed in the second, which would allow Parliament to control the budget more closely; It might be a little less educational, but it would be more effective to have a 360-degree vision. The Government is trying to respect what has been done in the past, particularly the financing of certain bodies in a run-off perspective – let us admit, Mr. Chairman of the Commission: certain taxes have been accepted, after negotiations, only to finance certain areas of distribution and to recover certain revenues. The Minister of Action and Public Accounts does not always win arbitrations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u189	Ah, that...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u190	... but try to limit these taxes so as not to go back to the principle of budgetary annuality, which guarantees the legibility of the budget for Parliament and the control of the Government. On the other hand, the Court of Auditors often criticises affected taxes, the management of which is not as rigorous as that of the State's money, which is controlled by Parliament and is surrounded by different procedures. The Government is not always consistent, Minister Woerth, either today or yesterday, because the pressure on the sectors concerned by these taxes is strong. In any case, the intention of the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts is, I repeat, to limit them as much as possible. The differences mentioned by Ms. Rabault stem from the political power ratio, but also from the explanations given by a particular body in its negotiations with the Government. We may be talking earlier about water agencies and KICs, whose fiscal situation is the result of some reforms. I hope I have responded to the amendment to take stock of the affected taxes and to save you time, Mr President, so that you can adjourn the sitting at 20.00 in accordance with the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u191	As the amendment under discussion is an appeal amendment by President Woerth, everyone will understand that I give her the floor first, and then to Mrs Rabault and the rapporteur-general to deliver the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u192	This debate is more than interesting, but it must be effective. All the turpitudes could have been committed in the past, but according to the council of compulsory levies, the amount of the cap was 136 million euros on 1 January 2012 and it reached 1 billion euros six years later: the phenomenon is growing. If they finance a useful object, these taxes must continue; But I'm contesting the notion of slamming. Indeed, when taxes have managed to finance an initiative up to what was planned, the collection of the tax must be limited. There is no reason for companies, through KICs, or mobile telephone consumers to continue to pay a tax whose product will not be allocated to the sector planned, but to the general budget. The universality of taxation must be restored. To do this, the EUR 1.2 billion of needs – likely next year – will have to be financed from universal revenue, from income tax, VAT and other taxes, and not from the allocation to certain categories of the population of taxes that have not been created for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u193	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u194	Thank you for your clarification, Minister. I agree with you on many points, including the fact that ceiling levels are a matter of political choice. Last year, the 2018 Finance Bill posted a €2.280 billion tax return on water agencies for a $2.1 billion cap, so these agencies had to return $180 million. This amount corresponds to the excess of the cap by the return on tax. But, in the 2019 Finance Bill, I did not see the expected return of taxes on water agencies, while that would allow me to know how much they will have to pay back to the state, given a $2.1 billion cap. Given your government's commitment to energy transition and ecology, it would be important to raise this ceiling to adjust it to actual efficiency. I grant you that this is a political point of view, minister, and that you may have another point of view; I am nevertheless convinced that, given the role they play in spatial planning and the support they provide to trade unions and small communities when they host wastewater treatment plants, it would be important for these agencies to have the financial means to support both the small cycle and the large water cycle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u196	This is a small call amendment of 1 billion euros... Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u197	Minister? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u198	I, too, confirm the unfavorable opinion. I owe Mrs Rabault an answer: 60 million euros are expected in 2019 for water agencies. I will complete this figure at the next sitting, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u199	Mr President of the Finance Committee? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u200	I withdraw the amendment, since it is an appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u201	I should like to inform the House that we have considered 58 amendments since 19 hours; We have 271 left to discuss. It's not unfeasible, but I'm calling on everyone to take it into account. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-10-22-O1029.u202	Next sitting, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the first part of the 2019 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
