ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u1	The next item is the questions on the Government's environmental policy. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. We begin with the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome the heroes who, in our country, are investing in renewable energies such as wind energy, methanization or photovoltaics. Technicality is rarely lacking in these different sectors. Sometimes, financial arrangements prove difficult to close, but above all, in our country more than elsewhere, the main difficulty lies in the administrative obstacles, in which I include the procedures, which are lengthy and costly, as well as the length of time for the hearing of disputes. In fact, the investigation of an action against the administrative authorization of a project can take four, five or even eight years, especially if it is brought before the Council of State. In my Aube department, a wind project in a commune I know well, Jasseines, has just been authorised after fifteen years of proceedings. Initially, the League for the Protection of Birds – the LPO – feared its impact on the ash cranes and therefore lodged a complaint. While, of course, there is no question of prohibiting remedies in a State governed by the rule of law, it is absolutely necessary to limit their time limits. In fact, too many projects are abandoned for this reason or, in the best case, take a lot of delay, which results in very large additional costs. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Secretary of State, I am well aware tonight of giving in rehearsal, but this can, thanks to your listening, have an educational virtue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u3	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u4	Mr Menuel, you are right: the art of repetition allows, on such an important subject, to do pedagogy. Let me remind you of France's targets: 32% renewable energy by 2030 and carbon neutrality under the climate plan. As we begin to chart the path of the next multi-annual energy programming – PPE – we must actually free up renewable energies. What was the methodology adopted by the Government for several months? First, we have addressed the issue of wind energy, as it has given rise to significant resistance. A working group has been set up: it involves not only representatives of the sector, but also environmental associations and, above all, local elected representatives. Parliament – the National Assembly and the Senate – is represented. On Thursday, a number of measures, both on the local and social acceptability of wind energy and on the regulatory environment – I am thinking in particular of repowering – will be announced. This will make it possible to make a real shift in wind energy development. In this regard, it is not a question of stopping at the only ground wind turbine: we must also deal with wind turbines at sea, on which we will have to exchange them all next week when we consider the bill for a state in the service of a society of trust. We also need to address the exciting issue of methanization, which is an important source of new income, especially for our farmers – especially farmers. A working group on this subject will be established. We must also not forget the issue of photovoltaics. In this regard, we have announced a doubling of the calls for tenders. Of course, the regulatory aspect of this technology is much less restrictive, but there too it is necessary to increase the number of invitations to tender. Returning to wind energy, I take note, Mr. Menuel, of your reflections on your department. You will see on Thursday, that is to say in two days, that the announcements made will live up to your concerns as well as your ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u5	Mr Emmanuel Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u6	Every seven years, the equivalent of the surface of a department of agricultural or natural spaces disappears to make way for new urban areas. The consequences for biodiversity are multiple: soil sealing, groundwater drying and increased flooding. The artificialisation of the soil is also an alarming sign of the malaise of our agriculture, but also an essential issue for our food sovereignty. Last September, in an interview with the Parisien, the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, stated that he had studied a new tax on the artificialisation of soils. In the face of this fiscal reflex, let me share some thoughts with you. In Vimeu, which is the most industrial part of the Somme department, of which I am fortunate to be elected, the deindustrialisation of the 1990s left many urban wasteland. I recently went to the wishes of the mayor of Fressenneville, in my constituency: after years of savings and administrative efforts, he was finally able to shave a former metallurgical factory in order to create a cultural centre. For this town of 2500 inhabitants, the cost of demolition and clean-up of this site was considerable – about 500,000 euros. In Friville-Escarbotin, Woincourt, as in many villages, the inhabitants are overwhelmed by the disfiguration of their town centres by industrial cemeteries, while, at the same time, the less expensive and easier to urbanize agricultural land continues to be devoured. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Secretary of State, the fight against the artificialisation of the soil involves not penalising concrete, but recycling already urbanised areas. Rather than creating a new tax that will not make the rehabilitation of wasteland less expensive, would it not be better to recreate a virtuous circle oriented towards activity and proximity, while preserving the quality of life?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u7	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u8	Mr Maquet, you are talking about gold because, as president of the public land establishment in Normandy, I have had to deal with these issues. Indeed, while the fight against the artificialisation of agricultural land is a major issue, the issue of wasteland, particularly for the smallest and most modest local authorities, is equally important. In this regard, clean-up is a fundamental issue; A number of schemes involving public land institutions, whether local or state, also exist. But above all, we know very well – I will not learn anything from those of you who are elected locals – that we must find an economic model for conversion in the case of wasteland. It is precisely on this point that we are taking a virtuous turn. Yes, conversions are possible. I am thinking, of course, first of all of housing – we are well aware of the stakes, especially in the tense areas. Public land institutions have financial tools to begin transitions. With regard to industrial conversions, the Government has recently launched a mission that has not yet received wide publicity – I take advantage of your question, Mr. Member, to remedy it. The aim is to study how, in the context of the energy transition, land resources of wasteland can be valued, in particular by setting up renewable energy facilities. It is also possible, for a number of projects, to use the clearing mechanism: a contractor or a project leader can use a wasteland to fulfil his or her obligations in this area. These are subjects on which France may have fallen somewhat behind other European countries, but it has real engineering. Mr Maquet, if you have specific projects within your constituency and your department, as I understand it by listening to you, you should know that the Minister of State, the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the Minister for the Cohesion of the Territories and I stand at your disposal to study them, in conjunction with the local authorities concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u9	Thank you, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u10	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u11	Secretary of State, we are engaged in a difficult but indispensable fight against global warming. This challenge places everyone in front of their responsibilities. Efforts to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the transition to electric vehicles, will place electricity at the heart of energy challenges. To succeed in this transition, we must stop constantly opposing renewable energy and nuclear energy: on the contrary, the answer to the challenges lies in their complementarity. The desire to pursue at all costs an objective of reducing the share of nuclear energy in our electricity mix is not compatible with the priority requirements of the fight against global warming: this incoherent policy suffers from a lack of realism. The President of the Republic said this last December in his TV interview: "You have to choose your battles". We are fortunate to be able to rely on low-carbon-emitting nuclear energy: we must therefore think of an emancipated model of any ideology and able to accord the respective strengths and weaknesses of nuclear and renewable energies. The French nuclear sector, the third industrial sector in our country, is a real asset for our economy. Our nuclear fleet is constantly adapting to ensure a maximum level of safety, as demonstrated by the investments made at Fessenheim, the first nuclear power plant in France to comply fully with the new safety standards established after the Fukushima accident. In addition, the recent visit of the President of the Republic to China has shown the full interest of our economic partners in our nuclear power skills. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In view of these factors, what grounds do the Government have to stick to the Green Growth Energy Transition Act, which capes the production of nuclear electricity connected to the French electricity grid and will cause a social and economic tragedy in Fessenheim, given the 2200 jobs at stake?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u12	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u13	Mr Schellenberger, on these highly technical issues, let us be precise: we are only strengthening the French energy mix. No one in the Government speaks of a total disappearance of nuclear energy, or of the atom. We are simply referring to a reduction in the share of this energy, in a path that must be sincere. In this regard, the 50% nuclear energy target in 2025, provided for by the Energy Transition Law, does not appear, for technical but also social reasons – as you said – as sincere and achievable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u14	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u15	The pragmatism of this government therefore leads him to say that we need to think about an energy mix that allows us both to achieve our objectives in the fight against global warming – I am thinking of the shutdown of our four coal-fired power plants, whose social impact must also be measured and which will require support – and to reduce the share of nuclear power, not to 0 %, but to 50 %, in accordance with a path to be determined within the framework of the PPE.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u17	It is this combination that we are putting in place as part of the trajectory that we will propose to Parliament – because, for the first time, parliamentarians will be involved, during 2018, in the writing of the new multi-annual energy programming. We have already had the opportunity to discuss the Fessenheim power plant, Mr. The decision was made. You and I, it seems to me, believe in democracy. However, the closure of the plant was included in the President of the Republic's draft. The French therefore expressed themselves. It is up to us, in our respective responsibilities – I have read your recent statements in the daily regional press in Alsace – to write the "post-central", with a real project of revitalization, social support and reflection on the issues of land, infrastructure and taxation of local and regional authorities. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] It is for this reason that I will have the honour to meet you, honourable Member, from next Thursday, and for three days, to work on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u18	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u19	Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns renewable energies. Today, the Ardennes are submerged by wind turbines: there are nearly 300 of them, with a high concentration in the south of the department, where the population density is low. The short-term objective seems to be to install 1000 wind turbines. [[Exclaims on the banks of the UAI group]] However, the tolerance of our fellow citizens towards them is reaching its limits... Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, to speak without being accompanied by sighs or comments? Our fellow citizens, I said, accuse wind turbines of threatening their natural heritage, including wetlands classified as sensitive natural areas, disrupting migratory bird corridors, changing landscapes and devaluing their property. The problem of the dismantling of former wind turbines is not sufficiently taken into account, since nothing is foreseen in particular concerning the extraction of reinforced concrete foundations, which will remain underground, to the detriment of ecological balance. At my invitation, Mr. Secretary of State, you came to the Ardennes on 6 October to see these difficulties. You then announced the establishment of a working group at the national level, in particular to simplify and consolidate the rules in the wind energy sector. Two meetings were held, and specialized commissions were established to simplify the framework for wind turbine development, as well as to protect the interests of residents and the environment. Are these two objectives really compatible? Is "and at the same time" possible in this case? What does the word "simplification" mean for licences granted to wind turbines? Mr Secretary of State, the energy transition, even if it is indispensable, must not take place at any cost. Projects are only possible if they are accepted by the inhabitants concerned – especially when we know the productivity of these machines, which are very expensive, unreliable sources of energy and which cannot replace nuclear power. Could not the financial benefits of watering landowners and communities also affect residents, for example, in terms of energy prices? The minimum distance between a wind turbine and homes is only 500 metres in France, while it is often much larger abroad. We need to change that rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u20	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u21	Secretary of State, you say "simplification", I say "respect for the people". What is your place in the development of other energies, such as methanization or photovoltaics? What will be the main orientations of French policy with regard to wind energy?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u23	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u24	Madam Member, thank you for your question and thank you also for your welcome to your beautiful Ardennes department a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u25	Definitely, he's going everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u26	On this occasion, I was able to realize how concerned many of our fellow citizens were about wind turbines, but also how much employment it was. I discovered, especially at the Lycée de Charleville-Mézières, a field of excellence; I met a young Ardennes who had been promised jobs and quality training thanks to renewable energies. It is difficult to answer your question in less than two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u27	It was just as complicated to put it down in two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u28	I know, Madam Member, your investment on the subject, and I want to tell you that if "and at the same time" is possible, it is also possible to "release and protect". We can very well release renewable energies and at the same time protect landscapes, sites, historical monuments, riparians and populations: both are conciliatable, as you will see by taking note of the measures that I will present Thursday morning. A word about what already exists. Problems related to dismantling are regularly discussed. However, there is already an obligation for project holders to provide a financial guarantee in order to manage and accompany the dismantling, this sum being by the prefect's hand. If you are aware of any particular difficulties, I am prepared to study them, but the regulatory and legislative environment already exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u29	The difficulties are with the foundations, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u30	The same applies to the interest and participation of our fellow citizens in the capitalisation of the initial project, which makes it possible to take advantage of energy production: provisions already exist. However, you are right, these steps must be systematized; Moreover, it is not a secret to say that this is part of the proposals that are on the table, as well as the marking: so many questions on which we can make "protect", which will balance the "release".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u31	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u32	Secretary of State, we all want a greener, healthier, greener country. Unfortunately, everything is not always that simple, and good will and good feelings are not enough to protect agricultural crops. In the field of plant protection products, France goes far beyond European standards. However, our supermarkets are flooded with products that do not meet the requirements to which French producers are subject. Consumers are therefore not better protected. A proper balance must be struck, since all farmers, regardless of the size of their farm and the mode of production, must control pests and weeds, some of which are toxic, such as morelle or datura, and control invasive species. They must ensure the profitability of their operations in a context of severe climatic hazards. They need technical solutions, regulatory stability and production conditions comparable to those of other European producers. Yes, to the protection of the environment, but not to the detriment of our farmers. You know, Mr. Secretary of State, that they would rather not have to buy pesticides and that they are waiting for technical solutions. So give researchers time to find alternatives before banning fungicides, herbicides and insecticides! Until recently, a plan for the exit of plant protection products has been announced. It should be presented just before the next agricultural fair. Mr Secretary of State, my questions are simple, and I hope you will answer them frankly. How are the arbitrations going at the interministerial level? What are the concrete guidelines for the road map ahead? Finally, I understood that you were moving a lot throughout France; I invite you to the most beautiful riding in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u33	Oh, no, it's not the most beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u34	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u35	[[Smile]] I must say, it's in the Loire!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u36	Moreover, we too have problems with wind turbines!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u37	What a clown!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u38	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u39	Mr Cinieri, this is an ancient subject, on which many things have already been said. The challenge now is to get on with it. I myself am the elected member of an agricultural department: let us remember that the first potential victims of pesticides are the users themselves, therefore the farmers. This reality is well known. You are right: the "zero pesticide" trajectory, which was widely mentioned in the so-called "glyphosate" case, calls for scientific answers. Clearly, there is a need for an exit path for pesticides and at the same time for alternatives. This is why several missions have been launched, notably by the National Institute for Agricultural Research, in relation to the missions of the inspection bodies of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Ministry of Agriculture, in order to draw up the most sincere, concrete and scientifically sustainable exit plan possible. It is true that all this is also happening on a European scale and that sometimes France – and that is to its credit – has gone further than the European bodies with regard to a number of prohibitions. This should be done in good understanding with the agricultural profession; This is what we have done with the ban on glyphosate within three years, which seems to be both reasonable and responsible for finding a substitute solution. [[Smile]] As for the travel you propose, it will be with pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u40	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u41	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of 2018, which I wish you all the best, I would not have the seven plagues of the Ardèche on this House. But there is one thing we can do together: drought. The lack of water is not a fatality in a department with a Mediterranean climate, watered in a very seasonal and irregular way, but where less than 1% of the precipitation is captured. On the farm side, the drought was such in 2017 that the animals have been fed hay for more than six months, which has greatly reduced the reserves, which will be missing for this winter. As for the harvest of fruits and chestnuts, 80 per cent of the harvest was destroyed. The only solution is to store water; It's very important for our family farms. However, farmers face regulatory and financial constraints to create small colline deductions. I would like to offer you, Secretary of State, a long list of aborted projects due to the lack of adequate regulations for the construction of small water storage facilities of 5000, 10,000 or 20,000 cubic metres. I have two questions. Firstly, are you ready to work with the Minister of Agriculture and parliamentarians to simplify the standards for small agricultural hydraulics, as is the case in Spain? Secondly, are these schemes eligible for the green transition contracts you are launching? I know, Mr. Secretary of State, your sensitivity and expertise on these issues, which Mr. Bruno Le Maire had taken up at the end of 2011; You took your part in it. It is high time to transform the test: our farmers and farmers in mountain areas need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u43	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u44	Mr Brun, you are right: we must deal with this issue with pragmatism. Again, we have been talking about this for a long time. Unfortunately, climate change is further exacerbating the phenomena you have described, particularly in Ardèche, where the soils dry up extremely quickly. This topic has several technical issues. A major effort must be made in the area of water savings; I believe this has been done for a long time in your department, in relation to the Chamber of Agriculture, but this is not the case everywhere. It is also necessary to draw up an economic assessment of water withdrawals; Sometimes, the agricultural profession returns to the public authorities – prefects, government, administration – because many projects fall into the water, if you pass the phrase, only because the economic model is not viable. You can't afford words on the subject. Last summer, ministers Nicolas Hulot and Stéphane Travert jointly presented a communication on water management, in its quantitative aspects. Qualitative aspects – a small cycle of water as a large cycle of water – will be examined in the framework of the Assises de l'eau, during 2018. Nevertheless, some priorities are already applicable. First, to encourage sobriety of uses and to regulate resources upstream; We must be able to do better in this area – we will have the opportunity to discuss it with all the partners at the Agriculture Fair. Secondly, to develop solutions tailored to local needs and contexts throughout the country. It is in this context that the question of small agricultural hydraulics could be raised, which the two ministers are prepared to examine, possibly as an experiment – in any case, there is no objection in principle. The objective, I repeat, is to be pragmatic: if it works, so much the better, if it is not, so much so. Finally, a number of innovative solutions need to be examined or, on the contrary, consideration should be given to returning to old solutions, such as the restoration of wetlands, a mechanism that works well, particularly in the context of sensitive natural areas managed by departmental councils, or the restoration of soil quality. In short, it is a beautiful subject on which we all have to work together. I am at your disposal to do so, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u45	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u46	Secretary of State, MODEM Group supported the Government and enthusiastically voted in favour of the 2018 Finance Bill. As the Group's spokesperson for environmental issues, I welcomed this text, finding it well balanced between the need to reduce public spending and the consideration of climate emergencies. Since nothing is ever perfect, however, I had pointed out two issues of concern, which are of particular interest to me, and which I would like to remind you today. I find it anachronistic to continue to grant incentives for the conversion of vehicles for the purchase of diesel-powered vehicles, even if it is a hybrid diesel engine, whereas the Government's will is that there will be no more diesel- or petrol-powered vehicles by 2040. To ban in the long term while encouraging in the present seems to me inconsistent. Accordingly, I would like to learn more about the Government's policy on the diesel industry as a whole. Today we decide to ban diesel-powered vehicles – which I am delighted about. Yet it is an energy that the public authorities have been pushing and promoting in recent decades. However, I fear that we are making the same mistake with electric motor vehicles. Although more protective of the environment than the vehicles currently used, electric motor vehicles are not free of defects; We should not bet on everything at the expense of other equally green solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u47	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u48	Mr Millienne, thank you for your question. I know that you care about this subject; One of my first ministerial trips was for your constituency, to meet ZOÉ, the famous electric motor vehicle built in a factory that makes France proud, the Renault factory in Flins. As you have pointed out, we have ambitious mobility objectives, including the cessation of the sale of thermally driven vehicles in 2040 and a policy of catching up diesel taxes on petrol, a policy that the Government assumes for not only environmental reasons, but also public health reasons: 50,000 premature deaths each year due to particulates emitted by diesel engines, this must lead us to react as long as it is still time. As for conversion bonuses, you know that they are useful: they are social shock absorbers, which allow many French people to start changing vehicles. Admittedly, the award criteria may need to be reassessed; I had also stated before the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, of which you are a member, that the Government was prepared to have Parliament assess in 2018 the rate of use of this conversion premium in order to determine what types of vehicles were involved and what change it had made possible to engage. Finally, as part of the Green New Deal called for by the Minister of State, who will be an "accelerator of the ecological transition", an important part will be made of innovation. So there is not just the electric motor: there is also research on batteries and above all on hydrogen. The question of new modes of transport, whether maritime or road, must also be asked; Things have been said about this at the National Mobility Assembly. 2018 will also be the year of innovation and research, in conjunction with the major French industrial partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u49	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u50	Mr. Secretary of State, my question is about walking easements. This obligation was originally created to enable navigational aid; later, its profit was extended to fishermen in 1965, then to walkers in 2006. The legislation requires owners to allow 3.25 metres of free passage along state water courses and bodies bordering their properties. In 2015, the Green Growth Energy Transition Act provided further clarification, particularly in cases where servitude could be diverted. However, this text still struggles to be applied. Blocking situations persist, as do the conflicts between walkers and riverside owners, especially on the banks of the Erdre – the most beautiful river in France, in the words of François I. Waterfront owners refuse to let hikers pass, citing arguments related to respect for their privacy and environmental protection, while pedestrians argue for their right of way, which has been enshrined since 2006 but never actually entered into practice. Moreover, the cumulation of texts regulating the banks of rivers and lakes raises the question of their consistency, or rather of their inconsistency. In particular, articles L. 341-1 et seq. of the Environmental Code, relating to listed and classified sites, limit the possibilities of development and modification, which may be contradictory with the opening of the banks to an ever-increasing public. Their increasing attendance by walkers may require accommodation to ensure the safety of people and property. The current legislation therefore does not seem satisfactory and does not solve the problems, particularly environmental ones, posed by foothold easements. What does the Government intend to do? What instructions can you give, Secretary of State, to remove the blockages and allow for a peaceful application of the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u51	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u52	With regard to this very technical issue, which was addressed by the Law on the Energy Transition for Green Growth, the General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development produced, in November 2016, a report on the particularly conflicting situation on the banks of Erdre, north of Nantes. I'll make you hold it. A second, more general report was issued in November 2017. We will consider the recommendations contained in this report, including the inclusion of walker servitude in town planning documents and certificates, the obligation to engage in dialogue and consultation with the population, based on local elected representatives, but also with the riparian owners. It is a subject, as you know, which provokes virulent and even violent controversies. Any legislative amendment should therefore be preceded by broad consultation with all stakeholders, including local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u53	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u54	The Regional Observatory on Energy and Climate, together with its partners, presented last July the key energy figures for Guadeloupe for 2016. In 2015, we had already recorded a growth in final energy consumption of around 2% compared to 2014, with an increase of almost 2% in electricity-related energy consumption and almost 4% in the transport sector; 2016 confirmed this trajectory, which is gradually moving Guadeloupe away from the objectives set by its multiannual energy programming. These results should encourage all actors to redouble their efforts to better control energy consumption and to further promote the exploitation of local energy potential. The development of an ambitious energy strategy is based both on strong territorial voluntarism, with the ambition to achieve the territory's energy autonomy, and on realism, as the deadlines are short. The range of renewable energy resources and the possibilities for diversification of the energy mix in Guadeloupe are considerable. Guadeloupe enjoys a strong sunshine throughout the year, as well as the presence of regular and constant winds – this is especially true of Grande-Terre. Irrigated by eighty-two streams, Basse-Terre can exploit hydraulic energy. Bagasse can be used as biomass. Finally, the presence of the volcano allows the use of geothermal energy. With a proactive policy, renewable energy could cover more than half of the territory's electricity needs by 2020, and more than three quarters by 2030. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and UAI groups]] Mr Secretary of State, could you present the objectives of the Government, as well as the measures it intends to take to accompany Guadeloupe and its communities in this energy transition, in order to enable them finally to exploit their immense natural potential?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u55	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u56	You are a thousand times right, honourable Member: in the field of renewable energy, overseas offers fabulous possibilities. It is sometimes difficult to understand that some territories have fallen behind, as I was able to see during my visit to the Pacific, during which I was able to talk to the elected representatives. The Government's approach is the right one: multi-year energy programming for each territory. This makes it possible to make tailor-made according to the geography, topography and climate of each territory. This individualised PPE logic will be maintained. With regard to Guadeloupe in particular, the PPE currently in force provides for strong energy efficiency measures, since the aim is to reduce energy consumption by 150 gigawatt hours in 2018 and by 508 gigawatt hours in 2023, compared to 2015. Often, in Paris, it is considered that the energy performance of buildings does not concern ultramarine territories; It is a mistake, since where heating is an issue in metropolitan France, it is the air conditioning, the cooling of buildings that are essential overseas. Guadeloupe's EPP also foresees a strong increase in the share of renewable energy in electricity production – with a target of 68.6% by 2023 – as well as the deployment of a hundred terminals for the charging of electric vehicles, with a focus on the use of renewable energy to power these terminals. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and UAI groups]] How can these objectives be achieved? I will travel very soon to Guadeloupe to talk about water; I will gather all the elected representatives of the territory to remind them of the law on the distribution of drinking water. This will give me the opportunity to talk to energy stakeholders as well. I am naturally at your disposal, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u57	We now come to the questions of the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u58	[[Vif applause on the benches of the UAI and FI groups, on several benches of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the REM group]] Mr Secretary of State, allow me first of all to welcome the work done with a large number of my colleagues on the issue of the ban on electric fishing, which has just received a favourable response from the European Parliament, which voted against this practice. The Government will, I am sure, support this position in the continuation of the European decision-making process by making a clear statement in the upcoming trialogue. Dunkirk's urban community is among the 24 winners of the call for expression of interest "Territories of Innovation – Great Ambition" – known as TIGA – launched as part of the investment programme for the future. Dunkirk wants to transform the industrial-port ecosystem through innovative and energy-absolute projects. Of course, I welcome this success and I hope that this project will be one of the twelve that will ultimately be funded. I would like to ask you about the readability of the Government's strategy for tools available to local and regional authorities to help reduce dependence on carbon-based energy. Of course, there are the territories of innovation, which I mentioned – there are many winners who have proposed projects in the field of the environment. There are also the territories with positive energy for green growth, the TEPCV. Despite the underfunding of this program by the previous government – I will not go back – the tool has been used by a large number of communities. Finally, there are the energy transition contracts that you have just launched very recently – notably in Arras. I certainly forget it. [[Applause on the benches of the UAI group]] Mr. Secretary of State, what is the philosophy of the Government? How can communities, including the smaller ones, that do not always have the necessary engineering, find themselves there and get the right tool? Finally, what of the projects which, although of quality, will not be included in the final list of TIGAs? Will they be able to use other equivalent tools?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u59	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u60	Mr Christophe, allow me to share your satisfaction with the European Parliament's vote on electric fishing. Let me also share your joy at seeing the project of the urban community of Dunkirk selected. I want to reassure you about the various tools available to local and regional authorities in order to begin the ecological transition. You could have cited others – I am thinking of Agenda 21 projects, or the climate-air-energy territorial plans. In any event, these tools should not be opposed to each other. Tools have been proposed for each generation of public policy; But the level of involvement of actors is growing. Where we were talking about framework documents a few years ago, the TEPCVs, which you mentioned, showed the importance of investment, in order to start, in concrete terms, new paths of energy performance in the territories – with the use of digital to manage public lighting, for example, or the development of short circuits for feeding in canteens. All these tools help to contribute to the decarbonisation and preservation of biodiversity. Environmental transition contracts, which are still experimental, have a new merit: they enable economic and social actors to be brought on board. Ecological transition can lead to social consequences, as the questions of MM have shown. Millienne and Schellenberger. These consequences may be negative, but also positive. The ecological transition is no longer intended to be financed solely by the taxpayer. We talked a lot about green finance last autumn; but there are also local economic channels. Putting so much money into the big investment plan on the energy performance of buildings without involving the local building sectors would make absolutely no sense. [[Applause on several benches of the UAI group]] I have presented these ecological transition contracts to the Committee on Sustainable Development. Arras and Corrèze were the first territories to experiment with them. A dozen more will join them during 2018. I will be happy to come back to Parliament to share the results of the evaluations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u61	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u62	As the public consultation on the 2018-2023 National Wolf Action Plan begins, I would like to convey to you the concerns of farmers in my territory. Our farms have suffered considerable damage in recent years. Since the wolf's return to the Greater East region in 2011, 665 observations of attack have been made and 5056 compensations have been granted. We share with you the concern to jointly protect the herds and the populations of wolves. However, the new plan is far from being balanced. The breeders recognize the progress made, but they nevertheless consider it to be incomplete. They would really like to be able to defend their flocks. For this purpose, defence fire must not be capped at forty. This limit is incomprehensible. By multiplying them, on the contrary, wolves could be instilled in the idea that they are in danger by attacking herds. Similarly, the problems of accounting for wolves in the plains due to the lack of snow, which prevents the search for clues, must be solved. The breeders recommend that dogs be given over to the wolf, in order to find evidence of presence. A non-mutilating trap, carried out by registered trappers, would allow DNA searches, but also equip wolves with GPS beacons to track their progress. Finally, farmers warn us that compensation for "indirect losses" may still be far too low. The actors in the territory feel that they have not been sufficiently heard. My colleague from Meurthe-et-Moselle Dominique Potier and I have already asked for an interministerial meeting several months ago, in order to put around the table the ministry of ecology and that of agriculture, but also the actors concerned. Can we still hope that such a meeting will take place?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u63	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u64	The wolf, a protected species, had disappeared; For twenty-five years, it has come back, and this good news for biodiversity is a major challenge for farmers, who see increasing numbers of predations. The expansion of the wolf population leads us to a constant adaptation of the management arrangements for this population as well as the accompanying measures for livestock farming. It is indeed necessary to ensure that the viability of the wolf population, the ability of the territories to bear the effects of its presence and the control of financial commitments are matched. In connection with Agriculture Minister Stéphane Travert, Minister of State Nicolas Hulot wanted to establish an action plan based on a long-term vision. Last week, the two ministers launched the public consultation on the national action plan on wolf and livestock activities for the period 2018-2023. Following the consultation in early February, the new plan and associated regulatory arrangements will come into force. In substance, the plan pursues two main objectives: on the one hand, the sustainable preservation of the species; On the other hand, the protection of herders and their herds, because we fully understand, Mr Pancher, the distress and suffering of those facing the attacks. The draft plan includes, inter alia, a component on compensation for victims, subject to the prior implementation of the means of protection, but also the possibility of firing to reduce damage when the latter are large and recurrent and there is no other satisfactory solution, within an annual ceiling set on the basis of the recommendations of the scientists.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u65	We come to the questions of the New Left Group. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u66	Despite some efforts made in recent years, France is not making full use of its potential for ecological transition and renewable energy. The risk is high of diverting from the trajectory of the Paris Agreement. However, the renewable energy sector is organised and financially mature; technologies can be considered effective. In other words, we have all or almost all to succeed in the development of renewable energies. The main obstacle lies in administrative procedures and their excessive length. Parliament began consideration of the draft law for a State serving a trust society. This text contains provisions on wind at sea – I am thinking in particular of the "envelope permit", the organisation of a public debate as upstream as possible and the new framework for connection. These three measures are useful – I say this all the more because I am elected from a territory concerned by wind farms projects – but I think a comprehensive vision is necessary. You led a working group on wind energy. You're going to do the same on methanization and solar. Procedures in this area remain lengthy and difficult. I still do not understand, for example, why a wind turbine is subject to the authorisation regime, as well as a sewage treatment plant: this complicates the implementation of such a project. I could cite many other examples. Moreover, as you know, recourse is increasing, preventing the emergence of projects. In 2018, the EPP will set strong renewable energy targets. However, these objectives cannot be achieved if the appropriate tools are not put in place, if the last obstacle to the development of renewable energy is not removed. I would like you to have a global view of this. Why is there no provision for ground wind, solar or methanization in the bill that began to be considered in the Assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u68	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u69	Mr Bouillon, I welcome your investment on these issues for many years. I said to Mr Menuel earlier: the PPE will not be sincere if we have not asked ourselves the right questions on the release of renewable energies. It is all the more necessary to do so because, for a long time, the public subsidy, the guarantee of a purchase price and sometimes even the involvement of local and regional authorities – especially regions – were essential for building a development model. Today, supply meets demand and renewable energies have an economic model. I quote the same example: for the first time in the North Sea, an offshore wind farm will be installed without the slightest euro of public subsidy. Another example: photovoltaics, which were absolutely unprofitable in the north of France, in the east or in Normandy, become so. The reasons for these developments are very diverse. In any event, a brake remains: local channels and elected officials who wish to make a real transition in this area regularly call for simplification. Thursday morning, I'll make announcements about the Earth's wind farm. Photovoltaics will then come, even if the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has already announced an increase of 1 gigawatt per year in the volume of tenders – because they had to be resized. With regard to the simplification and adaptation of the law, we are working on two aspects: shortening procedures – which private project holder can initiate a procedure that takes seven to nine years to obtain authorisation to operate or install wind turbines? It doesn't make sense. We will divide the deadlines by two. I will have the opportunity to clarify on Thursday how we intend to do so by adapting the law and without reducing the right of petitioners and litigants. We also want to improve the local and social acceptability of renewable energies. Several tools are on the table: interest, participation, better distribution of flat-rate taxation on network companies – IFER – and evolution of standards. The account will be there, and Parliament will have to evaluate the implementation of the scheme as and when.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u70	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u71	On 20 July, the Prime Minister launched the general states of food, in the presence of the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. The aim of the work was to define a genuine food policy in France based on what had been done so far. The expectations were particularly high on the part of consumers, food companies and, of course, producers. The bill resulting from these general statements will be presented at the end of the month. We will therefore have an opportunity to discuss it. I chaired Workshop 10 on combating food waste. Its sixty members, all very committed, have worked for weeks to propose new solutions. We have presented to the Government twenty-three proposals to take a new step in the fight against food waste, including the obligation for collective restoration to donate meals that it has prepared but not served to voluntary solidarity associations, in order to redistribute them to those who are hungry. We have taken up a principle that has proved its worth in the big areas as part of the law that I introduced in February 2016: giving rather than throwing. The policy of combating waste is first of all an economic issue, since in France it represents almost 16 billion euros produced in pure loss.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u72	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u73	It is also a major environmental issue, as food waste is now the equivalent of the third greenhouse gas emitter after China and the United States. Mr Secretary of State, what recommendations from the food states will the Government take up in its policy against food waste?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u75	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u76	Mr Garot, you have long been invested in these issues that have a social dimension – I dare even say cultural: knowing how to be sobriety and not to spoil food is indeed, for a society, the marker of a culture. You have agreed – and we thank you – to chair the working group you mentioned, which made a number of recommendations. We take many of these into our own account and intend to translate them into law or regulation. These measures obviously include the obligation for public and private actors involved in collective restoration to carry out the diagnosis prior to an approach to combat food waste – this diagnosis is still optional. I would also like to mention the extension of the scheme of proposing to authorized charities a food donation agreement for collective restoration and to other agri-food operators – industries, wholesale businesses –; This was, too, a widely expected decision. Thirdly, the obligation for certain operators, particularly in the agri-food sector, to make public their commitments to the fight against food waste, as is already foreseen for companies subject to the Corporate Social Responsibility Directive – CSR. It is therefore a question of re-examining CSR in the context of this environmental and cultural dynamic. We will also do so within the framework of the Green New Deal, intended by the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, in which the reflection on CSR will find its place. We wish to continue to associate you, Mr. Garot.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u77	Thank you, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u78	We come to the questions of the group La France insoumée. Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u79	On 13 November, 15,000 scientists from around the world were alerting us to the unprecedented degradation of the environment. This is the largest scientific forum ever signed, proof – if needed – that climate change is the greatest threat to humanity as a whole. This call to react as quickly as possible is based on the analysis of nine indicators. The critical threshold of eight of them has been reached in recent years. So the situation puts us all at the foot of the wall. More than half of the vertebrate species have disappeared in just forty years. Deforestation is so rapid that we have lost the equivalent of the area of South Africa in twenty-five years. Fresh water reserves per person were divided by two. The pressures and pollution of marine environments are so high that more than 600 areas are now considered dead zones. On this subject, I in turn welcome the unwavering mobilisation of Members of the European Parliament who have managed to win today's victory over electric fishing. Mr Secretary of State, there is an urgent need to radically change our production and consumption patterns. The time is no longer for pious vows, like that of greening finance. Reducing France's environmental policy to the convening of the morale of financiers is a failure. In 2005, the European Union established a carbon market. As a result, C0 emissions have never been so high. Neither capitalism nor the market can be solutions. And because they're part of it, except for the whole problem. Mr Secretary of State, when will the Government finally seize the urgency and gravity of the situation and take concrete steps to respond to what is the major challenge of our time? Massive public investment should be undertaken,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u80	Easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... back to the fiscal policy you are pursuing, to allow for an ecological bifurcation of magnitude and not adjustments to the margin. Planning could be our asset. France could walk ahead and lead the way, rather than lock itself in this impasse.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u82	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u83	Mr Quatennens, allow me to agree with the observation on the urgency of action, but not to be completely convinced by the opposition between public and private investment. Public investment is there, as are actions, such as the climate plan presented by Nicolas Hulot last July, which sets out an extremely precise roadmap. You must have been able to express yourself in this House on the first important act of the bill to put an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. The public investment effort is reflected in the major investment plan – EUR 9 billion for the energy performance of buildings – the support of the most vulnerable people thanks to the energy check, transitional measures such as the conversion premium, or energy saving certificates. I have responded to one of your colleagues on territorial approaches, such as TEPCV and tomorrow's green transition contracts. We have a chance, honourable Member: renewable energies, which do not produce greenhouse gases, are becoming profitable. That's good news. Where once the taxpayer had to intervene inevitably to develop a wind, photovoltaic or methanization project, an economic model can now develop. Finance can be pointed out – I respect your convictions. But some investment funds, at the World Summit on 12 December, mobilized resources from French life insurance to invest in renewable energies. This is a new development, indeed, the alternative investment funds sometimes the banking network, which does not want to act itself – I will admit it, Mr Quatennens. In any case, we cannot oppose the money that comes from the private sector and the money that comes from the public when it comes to such a greedy effort of capital – because the investments to be made are massive. We must have the most pragmatic model possible, and I believe that we are in the process of doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u84	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u85	The Whirlpool plant will close next spring, and its dryers will now be produced in Lodz, Poland. However, 84% of these dryers are sold in Western Europe, notably in France, Germany and the Netherlands. A flow of trucks will therefore cross Europe to supply our Darty or Kaufland. A few years ago, while I was on report in Megève, near the Mont Blanc tunnel, I talked to truckers who taught me that the pigs they were carrying were coming from the Netherlands, were going to be cut in Parma, and then went back to the Netherlands, Germany and France in the form of slices of ham labelled "Parma ham". We also know the example of shrimps caught in the North Sea, which cross Europe by truck, from north to south, then take the ferry between Algésiras and Morocco, where they are shelled by 1200 women who have no rest or meal break. They make a round trip of about 6,756 kilometres. Transport accounts for 30% of greenhouse gas emissions in Europe. Moreover, carbon dioxide emissions have increased by 20% since 1990. I have already asked the European Commission about this: "What do you intend to do to reduce the transport of goods? » For any answer, I only got a long and embarrassed silence. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I would also like to ask you the same question, Secretary of State: what projects do you have in your boxes to reduce the transport of unnecessary goods? Are you considering border taxes, customs barriers, import quotas? Or a kilometric tax, with an extra cost indexed to the distance travelled? This measure would have both ecological and social virtues, as it would provide a strong financial incentive for relocation. Otherwise, the Union's currency may become "trucks, concrete, pollution".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u86	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u87	Mr Ruffin, I apologize for the absence of Mrs Élisabeth Borne, Minister for Transport; I'll give you his answer. The growth in freight transport is projected to be strong: 1.2% per year between 2010 and 2050 at European level; 1.6% per year between 2012 and 2030 at the French level. This growth is currently strongly correlated with GDP, i.e. wealth creation. Also, the reduction of freight transport implies a change in the structure of the supply chains of production and consumption, which represents a major challenge in our society. A number of work has already been done. Those of the Environmental Conference, then those of the National Conference for Logistics, which led to the strategy "France Logistics 2025", show the importance of promoting short circuits in logistics chains. Rather than hindering mobility, the European policy guidelines resulting from the 2011 White Paper aim to promote the optimisation of transport flows and modes, focusing on several axes. The first is to develop and deploy new sustainable fuel and propulsion options, or to optimize the performance of multimodal logistics chains, in particular by increasing the use of more energy-efficient modes of transport. For example, with regard to road freight transport over 300 kilometres, the aim is to move 30% of freight to other modes of transport such as rail or navigation by 2030, and more than 50% by 2050. Increasing transport efficiency and the use of infrastructure through market-based information systems and incentives is also one of the options. The Minister for Transport is currently working on all these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u88	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u89	Mr Secretary of State, the modal share of road transport in freight transport is currently 85% in France. This road hegemony is based on cost outsourcing, social dumping and advantageous taxation. If the sector is broken down between a myriad of SMEs and TPEs, it is the major logistics groups that have the grip on the market, among them Geodis, a wholly owned subsidiary of SNCF. At the same time, rail freight is left behind. Fifteen years after the liberalisation of rail freight and the opening up to competition in 2003, rail has never transported so little freight. Rail freight, however, has many advantages: it is the most efficient fossil fuel and the least polluting mode; rail now accounts for only 2% of energy consumed and 0.8% of carbon dioxide emitted for 10% of traffic. To build a coherent and environmentally responsible logistics chain that allows each mode of transport to be repositioned on its area of relevance, we cannot rely solely on the law of the market. There must be a strong commitment and an ambitious policy of land control and land-use planning, in particular to bring the warehouses closer to waterways and rail, improve port services, reform transport taxation and get our rail system out of the brink of debt. The State must also weigh on SNCF's strategy to force SNCF to refocus on its core business. Can you clarify the intentions of the Government on these various projects, when a bill to guide mobility is to be presented in the spring?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u91	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u92	Mr Bruneel, I would like to apologize for the absence of the Minister responsible for transport. I had replaced him in the Senate when I considered a draft resolution from your communist colleagues on this subject, and I had the opportunity to recall how difficult French rail freight has been for many years. Three factors external to the sector must be taken into account to explain the difficulties it faces: the low industrial density in France, with difficulties in spatial planning; the lower competitiveness of French ports vis-à-vis their European competitors and the insufficient rail service of their hinterland; and, of course, the economic crisis, which did not help to make the model work. Aware of the difficulties of rail freight as well as its advantages, the Government is currently, in parallel with the National Mobility Facilities, conducting a comprehensive reflection aimed at making it more competitive and efficient. The objectives identified are: to improve the quality of service, to give visibility on the pricing of the network, to guarantee good irrigation of the territories, to improve the performance of intermodality and to accompany technological innovations adapted to the transport of goods. These points must be linked with the port strategy set out by the Prime Minister at the Assises de l'économie de la mer: France must have large seaports capable of serving the very large European metropolises. The mobility guidance bill, which Parliament will be considering in a few weeks' time, is currently being drafted. It will be based in particular on the conclusions of the National Mobility Assemblies, as well as on regular exchanges with parliamentarians on these issues, like those we have today. The Minister responsible for transportation will consult and involve Parliament as closely as possible in the preparation of the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u93	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u94	Mr. Secretary of State, we are currently considering, in committee, the draft law for a State in the service of a trust society, article 26 of which, as currently drafted, empowers the Government to establish, by order, a "licence to do" in the construction sector. The fact that such measures are taken without waiting for the results of the experiment launched in 2016 is already a question, but it is on the substance that I wish to question you. You are considering opening "the possibility, as a matter of course, for the building owner to fulfil his obligations with regard to construction either by applying reference standards or by providing proof that, by the means he intends to implement, he achieves results equivalent to those resulting from the application of the reference standards". Thus, you propose to substitute a simple obligation of result for an obligation of means. In essence, this measure is justified only by the desire to allow companies to save money – the impact study mentions an amount of €1.4 billion in this respect. However, there are many questions: what, for example, is the future of the constraints imposed today by the safety regulations against the risk of fire or against seismic risk, as well as the rules on the energy performance of buildings? What specific guarantees does the Government intend to provide in terms of requirements and controls to prevent such a measure, like so many other measures in the draft law, from ultimately reducing the standard, which would at the same time undermine the achievement of the objectives, particularly in terms of the energy performance of buildings?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u95	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u96	Mr. Bruneel, clause 26 of the bill is intended not to degrade performance, but to facilitate construction projects. The Government wishes to be empowered to take, by order, measures introducing authorization for building managers to derogate from certain construction rules, provided that proof of achievement of results equivalent to the rules at issue is provided. Article 26 also seeks to empower the Government to establish a permanent right for building managers to fulfil their obligations either by following reference solutions, i.e. by means defined in advance by the regulatory authority, or by implementing other means that achieve the same result or equivalent results. The burden of proof will then be on the contractor, who will have to demonstrate the equivalence of the solution through expertise entrusted to an independent third party. It will be selected on the basis of a strict specification, covering its level of expertise and impartiality, and will have to be approved individually by the State in advance. The device will thus remain completely controlled. The aim is to free the market from innovation and the evaluation of various technical solutions to implement the objectives specified in the construction and housing code. In any event, the proposed wording will in no way allow the objectives to be achieved to be reduced, whether in terms of energy and environmental performance, fire safety or seismic risk. The flexibility provided by Article 26, which will enable the same result to be achieved by different means rather than by a single one, cannot call into question the original scope of the standard. A constructive work has been undertaken with the Members of the Special Committee, of which you are a member, to further improve the legal certainty of the text. In particular, we will ensure that the proposed scheme facilitates the lives of construction companies and allows for the release of energy, while remaining within a binding framework set by the State. We will continue to define this framework in the light of the broad objectives of public policies concerning the world of construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u97	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u98	Mr Secretary of State, the road map set out last July with the climate plan, the recent adoption of the law putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons and our country's major commitment to the fight against climate change are all positive signs of France's efforts in the field of environmental policy. You are leading this policy with determination, highlighting two essential elements for its success: ambition and solidarity. We can only welcome this, but these efforts need to be stepped up and sustained: in the face of the shared observation on climate change, environmental health problems and the need to preserve resources and species, we need not small measures, but major changes. As a member of the National Council for Ecological Transition, I recall the favourable opinion given by the Council on 21 December last on the draft second national plan for adaptation to climate change which the Government wishes to launch. At the same meeting of the National Council, we also discussed the green transition contracts that you are proposing to implement in early 2018. These contracts, well received by the various partners, will enable the territories that wish to do so to experiment with real ecological transition approaches by addressing economic, social and environmental issues at the same level. The pragmatic approach proposed will certainly make it possible to bring out demonstrative territories in France, as is the case in other countries. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM group]] Mr Secretary of State, in order for national representation to have a more precise view of the function you wish to give to these ecological transition contracts, I would like you to answer three questions: what coordination will be put in place with the ongoing approaches in the territories, which are certainly less complete but have their interest, such as the climate-air-energy territorial plans, the "Agenda 21" approaches, the rurality contracts or the plans to protect the atmosphere? What will be the means and criteria of choice for these green transition contracts? Finally, could the accompanying approach of the State prefigure that of a possible agency of the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u99	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u100	Mr Fugit, I thank the National Council for its investment, in particular for its opinion on ecological transition contracts, the first of which came into being in Arras, Pas-de-Calais, and Corrèze. To answer your first question, we must not oppose the tools between them, as I said earlier to one of your colleagues. Many steps have been taken successively over the years. We know the climate-air-energy territorial plans – the PCAETs. Recently, there has been a lot of talk about positive energy territories for green growth – the TEPCVs. There were also the "Agendas 21" projects, which were probably the first tools to become popular with local elected officials to move forward on these issues. These different tools must be seen as real riches, because in many cases these documents included diagnostics, offering local trajectories or patterns that could be taken up with profit in ecological transition contracts. This is proof that one approach feeds the other. Secondly, as I said earlier, ecological transition contracts are unique – as you pointed out in your question – in that they incorporate economic and social aspects into the approach, and mobilize local public investment – in the relationship between the public institution of intercommunal cooperation, the department, the region and the State – while involving professional federations, economic sectors, trade unions and associations. That is why they are new. As we have seen, not all of the successful traditional call-for-project approaches were sufficient to engage in the irreversibility of the ecological transition. One could say, more technically, that there was no "self-carrying" dynamic or, in other words, that they did not lead to a definitive transition. Thirdly, with the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, there is an important aspect in metropolitan France and overseas: the need for engineering for the territories. Often we reason only in terms of money, and it is very wrong to limit ourselves to this aspect. In many cases, rural areas, local authorities in difficulty, find it difficult to develop engineering, especially since – it must be admitted – the deconcentrated state has sometimes become impoverished over time. The aim of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories is to offer the local and regional authorities again tools for analysing and writing projects which, of course, will be sought in the future under ecological transition contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u101	Mrs Bérangère Couillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u102	Secretary of State, it is the decisions we make today that will affect the future of our planet. That is why – as I know – the Government is acting to limit the use of all harmful products to our environment. He indicated that he intended to reduce pesticide use by 50 per cent by 2030. This decision, however, is part of a more ancient context, marked by the adoption of Ecophyto plans during the previous quinquennats. This development must be accompanied by the development of new environmentally friendly products – I am thinking in particular of biocontrol. The law of 13 October 2014 on the future for agriculture, food and forestry introduced several provisions that favour it. Biocontrol products use natural mechanisms in the fight against the enemies of crops. They are not harmful to the environment or to humans, unlike many synthetic plant protection products used today to treat our crops. Although accelerated procedures have been created to promote their development, too many brakes still exist. The French company Immunrise Biocontrol, located in Pessac, is a perfect example. Despite its participation in the development of a genuine ecological alternative to synthetic pesticides, it faces significant blockages, in particular as regards the time-limit for marketing authorisation, as well as the cost of obtaining and approving its active substance. These blockages can pose a threat to its development and stimulate the appetite of foreign firms for its biocontrol products. [[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] Could you tell us what the Government intends to do to promote the development of biocontrol in our country and, through it, the development of healthy and ecological products for all our farmers and wine growers?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u104	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u105	Madam Member, as I said earlier to one of your colleagues, the issue of pesticides is an old one. The first reflection on the subject was indeed carried out during the quinquennium of Nicolas Sarkozy, more than ten years ago. A number of actions were taken at that time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u106	Does that remind you of memories?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u107	I knew you'd like that reminder, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u108	Would you be nostalgic, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u109	Today, it is precisely a matter of speeding up, with the same pragmatism as at the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u110	If you want, you can come home!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u111	The question of alternatives is extremely important. I said it. The National Institute for Agricultural Research – INRA – will be asked to comment on the subject. The second part of your question is about biocontrol. Many measures have already been taken. The National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour – the ANSES – must treat as a matter of priority, as soon as they are submitted, applications for the placing on the market of biocontrol products. The time taken for training has been reduced: it is twice as long as for other products. For the review and approval of biocontrol files, the fee has been reduced. We are now focusing on the next steps. Action must be taken at European level – as I said – on the issue of glyphosate, in order to go even further in simplifying the dossiers to be submitted by the companies developing these processes. Support is also provided for innovation and support for SMEs wishing to develop biocontrol products. These are the axes envisaged to accelerate the ecological transition and the Green New Deal. We are working on the financing of innovation and investment around these issues, to get out of it and succeed in a perfect transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u112	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u113	Mr Secretary of State, with the 2015 Energy Transition Law for Green Growth, France has an ambitious goal: to have 32% renewable energy in the country's energy mix by 2030. This is a demanding goal, which requires the mobilization of all the capacities and comparative advantages of our country in a short period of time. Fortunately for the pursuit of this objective, France has Europe's second-largest offshore wind potential, just behind Britain and in front of Germany. However, the development of this renewable energy remains in France at an embryonic stage. To date, only one wind turbine has been inaugurated off Saint-Nazaire. Its commissioning is scheduled for early this year. The implementation of a dozen projects is now suspended from decisions to be rendered by administrative justice. This is due in particular to the very large number of appeals brought before the competent courts. While the majority of these remedies are legitimate and useful for public debate, it should be pointed out that some applicants abuse their right to appear in court, in particular with regard to their standing or interest in action. Obstruction is also taking place in the litigation of land wind, for which there is no time limit for the investigation of administrative tribunals. Education can therefore take several years and discourage project promoters. Mr Secretary of State, France needs renewable energies and the French want them to be deployed. With regard to land and sea wind, the current legal regime governing disputes does not seem to be appropriate for the need to develop such energy. What are the Government's plans to reform the wind energy dispute, which hinders the massive deployment of this sector in France? Is the Government in favour of a better screening of appeals and a shorter investigation period?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u114	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u115	Madam Member, I will not go back to the simplification measures that are expected for ground wind, since I have done so many times this evening. I refer you all to the measures that will be announced at the end of the week. On the other hand, I'm going to focus on the wind at sea, which I haven't mentioned yet. What are our areas of work on the subject? First of all – it is not stressed enough – support for projects that have already been launched and are mature. Six projects deserve support from the State and local authorities. Secondly, we need to simplify the procedures. We have already done so – you have done so – within the framework of the law putting an end to hydrocarbon research and exploitation, since Parliament has allowed TEN – and not the project leader – to take over the connection to the ground station, which is a major step forward for the economic model of the project. You will continue, I am sure, in the context of the bill for a state in the service of a trust society, whose article – which I will come to defend before you – contains measures such as the simplification of calls for projects, which are still too complex, and the assumption by the state of upstream studies, in order to define an "envelope permit", which is a real novelty. Today, procedures last more than ten years. Therefore, when a right is acquired, it relates to ten-year-old technologies, as they date back to the filing of the file. The permit envelope will allow the most recent technologies to be taken in connection with the right of authorization. This common sense measure will be included in the bill. We will also provide an important response around innovation and research. You were at my side for the inauguration of the first floating wind turbine in Saint-Nazaire, which will be running soon. It is an interesting model, which will also improve the acceptability of wind energy by users of the sea. A real consensus emerged around the floating wind turbine. France is lagging behind; She has to catch up with him.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u116	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u117	Mr. Secretary of State, the Government is pursuing a proactive policy in the field of ecological taxation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u118	A little modesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u119	...targeted on the challenge of climate change. I can say that she continues, but also that she reinforces the ones we've known for ten years – like that, I'm doing "at the same time." First of all, in this policy, the climate-energy contribution, that is, the carbon tax, will increase substantially, in order to lead us to a decarbonisation of the economy. France has made strong decisions on public climate policy, such as the end of hydrocarbons, in terms of exploitation and use, but also the forthcoming cessation of coal-fired electricity production. Of course, this decision concerns only 1% of French electricity production, and four sites in France, including Gardanne. I support this difficult and painful political choice because it is necessary to weigh in the negotiations, particularly with Germany and Poland. But it is essential to accompany the territories affected by this measure. As such, I hope that the mining basin of Provence, of which I have the honour to be the Member, and which is primarily concerned by the closure of the coal group of the Gardanne power plant, I hope that this land of energy will benefit from the ecological transition contract, which you are setting up in France. My question will be about the tax niches that still benefit fossil fuels in our country to the tune of several billions, and that concern aviation kerosene, business fuel or diesel for road hauliers. I will insist on the little visible niches, especially those hidden in green washing. It seems that biomass plants using coal supplement, as is the case in Gardanne, where 850,000 tonnes of wood are burned per year, i.e. one train of wood per day – in more than 150000 tonnes of coal, or 20 trucks per day – also burn 1.5 billion euros of public money, through the contribution to the public electricity service – CSPE – and that they benefit, for several million per year, from an exemption from the internal consumption tax on coal – ICTC. It's a lot for an ecological project! This is the particularity of my question: will the exemption on coal used in biomass plants remain, whereas it represents a loss of EUR 15 million per year for the State's tax revenues?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u120	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u121	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u122	Mr Lambert, the question of the extinction of the four coal-fired plants on French territory is important. There is indeed a need to create a favourable environment, both in terms of social and territorial aspects, which also includes tax issues. To your first question, I answer yes: there will be an ecological transition contract for the territory where the four plants that will be extinguished during the quinquennium in Le Havre, Cordemais, Saint-Avold and in your constituency are installed. The first contact will take place at the beginning of this year. We will meet the local elected representatives, but also representatives of the various trade unions, the large local authorities, the professional sectors and, of course, the elected parliamentarians of the territories concerned, in order to consider the writing of these contracts. Your question also concerns the European carbon trajectory. The Germans now have a government, which will allow us to resume discussions on the subject. Secretary of State Brune Poirson took the lead on this important issue. The third question you are asking, because your speech contained several of them, relates to the taxation of these plants, in particular the ICTC, which is the result of European directives. With Nicolas Hulot, we have undertaken a joint inspection of several ministries: Bercy and the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. This mission will report in February to study the methodology and impacts of coal-fired power plants. On the tax side, on which we need to be informed, we will need to work with you, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u124	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u125	First of all, I welcome the ambitious objectives of the major energy renovation plan for buildings, which make this public policy a national priority. There are 7 million poorly isolated housing units in our country, 3.8 of which are occupied by households in energy poverty. Beyond the measures in the climate solidarity package, there are still some questions about the action we need to take, particularly with the most modest households and private collective housing. Just a few days away from the conclusion of the Government's major dialogue on energy renovation of buildings, I would like to share with you the following questions. First of all, if we want to target the most poorly isolated dwellings in the best possible way and thus make our public policy more effective, it is necessary to rely on and value energy performance audits and diagnostics by strengthening the training and monitoring of diagnostics. We could also incorporate new qualitative criteria, such as sound insulation or the environmental performance of housing, which would allow us to move from an exclusively energy-based approach to an overall environmental assessment. With regard to aid to individuals, do you want to break with the incentive logic of equipment, to direct public aid towards a roadway of work, allowing for a long-term reduction in energy consumption but also in the emission of greenhouse gases? We know that these incentives will only be effective if they enable modest households and all housing units to benefit from them. We also know that such work remains complex, financially but also legally, particularly for the most modest households, private condominiums and tenants in the private park. In this respect, the readability of aid and access to information will be an essential lever. Finally, the generalisation of the digital book from the building to the existing park, or the creation of an energy passport, could be dynamic steering tools for assessing the energy, environmental and budgetary efficiency of this public policy. These are, Mr. Secretary of State, the subjects on which we thank you in advance for giving us the guidelines of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u126	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u127	Madam questure, you are right, the question of the energy performance of buildings is central; It occupies an important place in the drafting of the PPE, since the energy that is not consumed is a clean, passive energy that is produced. This is a simple reality, which has long been affirmed by the Energy Regulatory Commission – CRE – and the Electricity Transmission Network – TEN – in place of governments. So it was time for us to integrate this into our trajectory. Let me remind you that 45% of French energy production comes from buildings, as well as 25% of greenhouse gases, from the carbon footprint released in our country. In the face of this reality, action must be taken, which requires financial resources, because we often go from afar. The large investment plan is widely sought on this issue – to the tune of EUR 9 billion – and sometimes on already existing missions, well known to local elected officials, for which funds have to be mobilised: I think, for example – in order to answer your question on housing – to "habit better", which is a programme of the ANAH affecting over the duration of the quinquennium a large sum – EUR 1.2 billion, if we consider all the means used – in favour of the most fragile owners, occupants or donors, of private housing. In addition, there are all the measures to accompany the transition that Parliament has voted for, including energy saving certificates, the energy check or the refocusing of the energy transition tax credit – ISCED – on a number of projects. Nevertheless, a plan for the energy renovation of buildings is needed. Indeed, it is not just a question of allocating money: we must also have a method. First, the plan should be targeted at the most modest households, which calls for the intervention of local authorities, social donors and associations involved in this matter. Secondly, there is an exemplary issue concerning public buildings, first of all those of the State, but also those of local and regional authorities. Prefects are particularly aware of this issue for the allocation of funds for the provision of equipment in rural areas – DETR – and for the provision of support for local investment – DSIL. There is also a need to involve the economic sectors working on the energy performance of buildings. We need to be able to renovate more, better and cheaper. On this subject also there is a need for engineering in the territories; He must be satisfied. The consultation on this energy renovation plan will continue in the coming weeks, before its next presentation by Nicolas Hulot.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u128	We end with a question from an unregistered Member of Parliament. Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u129	Secretary of State, the Notre-Dame-des-Landes project has been on the table for fifty-five years now. Since 1963, we can see clearly, this project drags in length, the governments skate when they do not derail, they advance before retreating, because they are actually subject to different pressure groups. The local consultation in June 2016 delivered a result that can be regretted; In fact, it was on a fairly illegitimate perimeter. But it seems that, alas, the inhabitants have decided. If I believe what you said before, when you said that you believed in democracy, I assume that the airport should be built. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Yet, to date, the Zadists, in order not to call these squatters delinquents otherwise are still on the scene and nothing seems to have been done to restore the republican order. The situation is deteriorating and questions arise: what are these people living on? Do they charge the housing tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u130	It's been removed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u131	Do they eat kids?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u132	Will they benefit from the abolition of the latter? What prosecutions will be brought against them? Ms. Gourault admitted that the Zadists were arming themselves and that the evacuation was risky. But strength must remain in the law, if only to respect those who peacefully oppose this project. Moreover, for some time now, infrastructure projects that could destroy arable land and ecological spaces have been increasing. Thus, beyond Notre-Dame-des-Landes, we can mention the EuropaCity project, a crazy project to build ski slopes in the middle of Val-d'Oise. I would like to know your position on this. Are you in favour of these completely delusional projects or are you defending with us a sustainable France? Will you go, Mr Secretary of State, in front of the Vinci Group, who is responsible for the construction of the airport?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u133	[[Smile]] We're gonna find out tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u134	Will you go in front of the Zadists, who engage in blackmail to violence or, on the contrary, will you take steps to punish these illegal occupations?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u135	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u136	Mr President, thank you for asking me for my personal opinion on this project, which, moreover, was born well before my birth – more than twenty years before. You will agree that this government, which has been in business for eight months now, has taken this case with arms-on-body, with a transparent method, before all the French. As a first step, a mission declined the various options on the table: the construction of Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport or the expansion of Nantes-Atlantique. It delivered its conclusions last December. Second stage: the consultation with all the actors – economic and political – of the territory. The Prime Minister himself conducts these consultations and devotes a great deal of time to them. He went to Notre-Dame-des-Landes last weekend to meet the mayor and the city council, which is obviously the least of the things. Third time: that of the decision. This was made clear by the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. A first response was made on the grounds of law and order: the ZAD is unacceptable and will be evacuated. A second aviation response was made: by 30 January, the choice between the two scenarios would have been made. [[Applause on a few benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] Thus, in just a few months, the Government will have put an order on a file that unfortunately has been dragging on for too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u137	We have completed the questions on the Government's environmental policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u138	The next item is the questions on education and teacher recruitment. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. We begin with the questions of the group La France insoumée. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u139	Minister of National Education, my question is about the implementation of the Parcoursup platform, which succeeds APB – Post-bac Admission. How, Minister, could this application guarantee equality between future students? How could it be, indeed, when it has been put in place in the greatest haste, without even waiting for the reform it is carrying out to have been finally voted on by Parliament? How could this platform guarantee equality between students since, from now on, the national bachelor's degree is no longer the entrance ticket to higher education? How could it guarantee the equality of future students when it introduces, despite your denials, a selection between students based on opaque criteria, variable from one region to another, and even from one institution to another? How could it guarantee equality between students when its selection criteria will not be academic, psychological or social? While access to higher education is a right that young citizens must enjoy, without any condition other than obtaining the baccalaureate, Parcoursup asks candidates for a letter of motivation and a study project that neither you nor I would have been able to prepare in our time. These know-how which will be asked of future students are particularly socially discriminating and they will do their job, i.e. to close further higher education to young people from the popular classes. You will of course take the pretext of the disaster of APB and the inequity of the drawing of lots. But no one is fooled: who wants to kill his dog accuses him of rage. Liberals wanted the skin of the university as a public service; They've organized the ruin. While the increase in the population required the university to open places, investments were refused. While our country has only its grey matter, these deliberate choices undermine our ability to face the challenges of the future and undermine the republican promise of equality between citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In the face of these facts, Minister, will you claim that Parcoursup will guarantee equality between future students?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u140	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u141	Mr. Lachaud, thank you for this question on a subject that has already been the subject of a question to the Government this afternoon. [[Applause on the benches of the REM and MODEM groups]] First of all, you will do me the honour of recognizing that I am a university professor myself and that I cannot, of course, accept even the suspicion that this government, or the Minister of Higher Education or myself, is pursuing the idea of going against the interests of the universities and the public service they deliver.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u142	What about the interest of the students?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u143	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Furthermore, you are quite right to consider access to higher education as a constitutional right; In fact, it was in some way violated last year when the drawing of lots became the means of selection. I note that the drawing of lots seems to have your preference even though it generates the worst of inequalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u144	I just said the opposite! Be a little honest!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u145	[[Applause on the benches of the REM group]] I'm completely honest; It is you who may not be so because the true inequality was created by excluding people who were forced to pursue their higher studies outside France, who were excluded when they had successfully completed their baccalaureate. If it's that system you love, say it frankly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u146	You should create places in universities!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u147	For our part, we are putting in place another mechanism. I understand that you thought that I was going to accuse the previous system to better justify a mechanism that you think is more inequitable. I heard your argument, but it's not worth it. We come from an extremely unfair system, and we are moving towards equity, because the processes we have established have qualitative elements and involve a human dimension.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u148	That's not what teachers say!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u149	First, students today, contrary to what happened before, are advised: it is a reality that you cannot deny. In fact, there are two principal teachers in each grade in France, which was not the case before. This allows for personalized follow-up. In addition, significant information technology resources have been implemented; These include, for example, the website www.terminales2017-2018.fr, which provides access to information that was not previously available. I would need more time to answer you completely...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u150	You will have the opportunity to return, Minister. Thank you for closing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u151	The expectations of the universities will help combat failure in the first cycle, orienting the students better. I will have the opportunity to clarify that later.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u152	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u153	Minister, last October, I was received in Matignon by the Prime Minister's office to address the issue I raised regarding the assignment and deployment of ultramarine public servants. I am personally asked about the difficulties encountered by young ultramarines who were assigned to Hexagon after obtaining their contests. I will mention the case of a young mother who painfully abandoned her partner, home and property to come to Hexagon to take up her assignment. But, worse, the father has since been separated from his three-year-old child. Another case, very recent, concerns a married couple for a year, whom I have met; The husband is a territorial civil servant and the wife, who will give birth in a few weeks, will be assigned to the Paris region because of her success in a national competition. Again, a painful choice will have to be made between family and employment, since no solution has been found. While one can obviously imagine that, on hexagonal territory, civil servants can return to their families every weekend when they work away from home, it is difficult to imagine that the same goes for ultramarines. So, minister, in the light of experiences, divorces, the fact that some public servants give up their jobs, broken families, separation between children and their parents, can one think that this colonial management, known to all, is still acceptable? No! So it is time, in my view, to think of competitions for regional assignments, as well as of strengthening the too timid provisions of the circular on the material and moral interests of civil servants overseas. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Would it not be time, minister, to finally abolish this injustice which continues to wreak havoc in the overseas?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u154	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u155	Mr Ratenon, thank you for this extremely important issue. I do not ignore the human problems that you have just mentioned; I knew them quite well when I was rector overseas. Behind your question, there is obviously the principle, of high value, of equality between all those who have passed a competition, which in practice results in situations which are more painful for the ultramarine than for the inhabitants of Hexagon. In future reforms that can be envisaged, there will certainly be developments in this area. Today, this situation does not give rise to a complete indifference since material and moral interests are taken into account in the teachers' schedule. This may not appear to be sufficient, but it generally leads, in the long run, to reconciliation between spouses under the different assignment procedures. However, I very much agree with you that the present system is probably too blind and that improvements will certainly have to be made in the future. The latter will have to be consistent with all the desirable developments in the human resources management of the Ministry of National Education. This implies a more human resource management and probably a more academic vision, i.e. closer to the field. We will certainly have the opportunity to discuss this again, because this can call into question current management methods, which guarantee a certain equality between staff. We must therefore pay close attention to respect for the principle of equality between successful candidates and to the specific features of each region, in this case the overseas regions. I hear very well your expectation, which will be at the heart of some of the reforms that we will have to carry out in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u156	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u157	Minister, as you know, the number of second-degree teacher recruitments will decline in 2018. In concrete terms, 2600 posts will be abolished compared to 2017, a 20% decrease. You justify this reduction by the fact that many posts have not been filled in previous competition sessions. But this argument takes the problem backwards, focusing on the consequences and not on the causes of the lack of attractiveness of the teaching professions in terms of remuneration, training and consideration. What do you intend to put in place to stem the crisis of competition applications? In addition, this is an argument that does not take into account all categories of personnel; Indeed, for a number of them, the number of positions opened for competitions in 2018 is lower than the number filled in 2017. This is the case for EPS teachers – physical and sports education –, for psychologists in national education, but also for senior education counsellor positions, with a decrease of about 20% on average between 2017 and 2018. It turns out that these accounting decisions have very real and very serious consequences for education advisors, CPEs. For example, on December 19, a student assaulted one of the two principal education counsellors at the Collège Pablo-Neruda de Pierrefitte-sur-Seine – in the Seine-Saint-Denis department, which you know so well. The teachers went on strike immediately, before the Christmas holidays, and then as early as the beginning of the school year. They were supported by the parents of the student, who blocked the entrance to the college all last week, even at night. What are they asking, Minister? Simply the transition from their institution to REP+ – a strengthened priority education network – and the recruitment of a third CPE because, at present, there are only two for 700 students. How, under these conditions, can they carry out their mediation and follow-up work, especially in a territory that requires special attention? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The strong mobilization of the educational community and the parents of students shows the urgency of the situation: Minister, some institutions need more resources and better supervision to ensure equality. Are you going to give it to them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u158	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u159	Mrs Rubin, thank you for your question, which actually includes several: you are referring to a structural subject, which could be described as a recruitment crisis in national education and which is not specific to France, a more short-term subject, linked to this year's budget, and finally the example of Pablo-Neruda College, which you put forward to illustrate the two previous points. The most important structural question refers to what we are doing to solve the problem of recruitment in France. As I said, this is a universal problem: all countries comparable to France have a recruitment pool problem, particularly in mathematics and scientific subjects. We need to work long-term for this to change, and we will. There is not enough time to present all the elements of strategy in this area, but I will mention one, very consistent with the law of 8 July 2013 on orientation and programming for the re-foundation of the school of the Republic: pre-recruitment. We will make new efforts for pre-recruitment and fellowships, in order to create, as upstream as possible, vocations for the teaching profession. There will be many other things to do, but our work also depends on the prestige of the teaching profession, one of my very high priorities. We must put this profession at the heart of French society in different ways. Our management of human resources will contribute to this, and from this point of view there is a link to the previous question. With regard to what we have decided for next year's school year, first of all I fully assume to make the first level our priority. France's level of expenditure on education corresponds to the average of comparable OECD countries – the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – but ours spends much less for its first degree and a little more for its second degree. It is therefore quite normal for us to have made budgetary choices of recruiting more in the first degree at the beginning of next year. The balance of positions ahead of pupils exceeds 4000 for next year's school year. I am short of time to answer your question, but I am sure that the following will allow me to clarify my thinking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u160	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u161	Minister, Jean is an economics teacher in a public high school, in second and senior classes. However, he did not pass an educational competition, receive pedagogical training or gain professional experience in this field. He is a precarious public service contractor, having been hired on a fixed-term basis. To obtain his teaching position, he registered on the website of an academy, and a few days later, he was called by a school head who offered to teach for the first time. The shortage of trained teachers leads to increasingly unacceptable situations in recruitment into national education. This recourse to teachers under contract is not good for anyone, not for children, in particular, who do not receive education worthy of public service. Nawal, a twenty-seven-year-old teacher in CM1, reports to Figaro: "These are the students who, as they progressed, told me where they were in the program. She explains how she remedied her inexperience: "For the evaluations, I looked on the internet. I ran into teachers' blogs explaining their methods. » The consequences of such recruitment practices are the precarisation and persistence of the teaching profession. Jocelyne François, representative of SNES-FSU, said that teachers were dismayed: "Some contract workers, such as single mothers, switch to precariousness when part-time work is imposed on them. Many use food jobs to make ends meet. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Minister, the recruitment policy for national education is a failure. Here, as elsewhere, in line with the increase in the population, the number of newly graduated teachers should increase to cover the needs of the institution. Less and less young people want to do this job, and precarising them under contract is not the solution. My question, perhaps redundant but important, is as follows: What are your intentions to remedy the shortage of vocations in national education and the dysfunctions it causes on the recruitment of teachers?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u162	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u163	Mr Larive, your question relates to the previous one because it refers us to the crisis of recruitment into national education. I repeat how not specifically French this subject is and how seriously we must consider it and take it with arms-to-body. There are and will always be contract workers in national education in France. This is absolutely inevitable, and anyone who claims otherwise would practice some demagogy. But it is important that the number of contractors remains limited to a certain proportion. Today, there are a little more than 22000 in the second degree, and their proportion in the first degree is small. This phenomenon therefore mainly affects the second degree. In addition, not all contractors correspond to the description you have just made. Sometimes the recruitment of contract workers allows for an entry airlock in the public service; That is why there have been in the past, and there will probably be in the future, processes of tenure – we are still quite satisfied with these mechanisms. In the overseas academies, which we were talking about earlier, contract workers are very useful, because they lack staff: they contract out ultramarines which then become holders. It is therefore a complex phenomenon which cannot be described in a Manichean way. Clearly, our goal is not to increase the number of contractors and certainly not to increase the precarization you have described. Pre-recruitment again represents one of the answers to this situation, because it allows for more incumbents to be prepared for the future and also to imagine contractual mechanisms leading gradually to tenure. To sum up, it is very important that we put in place a better training of contract workers – this is a response to one of the points you stressed. In addition, any hiring of contractors must be considered with a goal of tenure in a general plan, provided that someone has demonstrated his or her quality in the position held.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u164	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for her first question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u165	The Education Code states: "Education is compulsory for children of both sexes, French and foreign, between the ages of six and sixteen. The schooling of unaccompanied minors is therefore both a right and an obligation. The International Convention on the Rights of the Child also recognizes the right to education for all children. The human rights defender points out in each of his opinions that the schooling of young migrants must be a priority. However, we now know that all of us here, today in France, young minors find themselves on the street, without taking care of them and without any steps taken for their schooling. These intolerable situations are increasing, while migrant children, let us recall, are primarily children. Many obstacles hinder this access to the common law, such as the voluntary slowness of certain departmental councils to recognize them as unaccompanied minors, thus delaying their access to the school institution, not to mention the precariousness linked to the life in a social hotel, or even in a slum or squat, and the potential expulsions from these places, which can deliver them as prey to criminal organisations – prostitution and drug cases are frequent. The national representation must affirm that the place of these young people is in school and not in the street. That is why we call for young migrants to be enrolled as soon as they are temporarily received and for this to be a top priority for both the child welfare services and the CASNAVs – academic centres for the schooling of newly arrived allophone students and children from travelling families and travellers. It is intolerable for services to deny a human being, as we have seen recently, his status as a minor, on the sole ground that his courage to flee his country would prove his maturity. Minister, what essential means do you intend to put in place to ensure that all children have access to school, without any distinction?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u166	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u167	Mrs Faucillon, you are raising a obviously major subject, particularly topical, since migratory waves are becoming more and more important in France. You rightly recall that education is compulsory in our country and that every child in the national territory is destined to be educated. It is a right that no one can dispute: we all want every child to be educated. On the basis of this principle, we must look at the facts as they are. You are right to mention certain phenomena which, in a way, overwhelm us. The institution of national education does not have to be ashamed of its work. CASNAVs work hard to successfully integrate allophone students. In addition, all work is carried out by the community and by social assistance for children. This is a subject on which we are working with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnes Buzyn. We also frequently talk about this with the departments, as it seems to us all that the way in which child welfare is implemented has reached a certain limit. In my view, this is not so much a question of means, because social assistance for children benefits from important resources. The problem is more qualitative: as you pointed out, I am not sure that sending a minor to a hotel financed by the departments is the most relevant solution, especially in terms of education. I am even firmly convinced that the resources allocated to child welfare could be better used if we worked well with the departments in the future. That is the meaning of the developments we are advocating today. That is why I recently commissioned the general inspections to work on the issue of allophone students. Their report will be submitted to us very soon. I will initiate a dialogue with the departments, obviously in connection with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, so that we can find solutions to these problems. I also believe that national education and the community must work together to achieve pragmatic formulas, especially when students do not speak French at all when they arrive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u168	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor for her second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u169	The 2018 Finance Bill removed more than 2,000 trainee teacher positions. As I have already had the opportunity to say, this abolition officially acts as a result of the crisis in the recruitment of teachers and will have the effect of increasing the recruitment of contract workers with increasingly precarious status. As my colleagues have mentioned, this decline in the number of positions offered in the competitions is a very bad signal to students. On the contrary, the teaching community is asking for concrete measures to upgrade the teaching profession. We believe that pre-recruitment would help to develop the attractiveness of the trade. The aim of this alternative training scheme is to alleviate the recruitment crisis by motivating students to choose a teaching career more quickly. Indeed, the increase in the level of recruitment, from the bachelor's degree to the master's degree, reduces the number of potential candidates. Currently, teacher training is available at the end of his master's degree, at a level of study to which few students from the popular classes are admitted. Not only to meet the challenge of recruitment, but also to diversify the profiles of people in this function, one must have the will to go and look for these students. Diversity was a plus for the school when we worked to achieve this goal; I think we need to do it again today. We therefore support the introduction of a pre-recruitment from the first year of the licence and the remuneration of the students concerned. In order to ensure the democratization of access to higher education and to the teaching and education professions, it is necessary to free these students from financial constraints, in return for their commitment to a teaching career. We also propose to introduce the competition at the level of license 3 rather than master 1. Students would thus benefit from two years of vocational training as trainees; This would improve their entry into the profession and increase the confidence of new teachers. Minister, what are you proposing to upgrade the teaching profession? Are you considering the experiment, which we would recommend to launch on a large scale, of a pre-recruitment of teachers at the level of baccalaureate or baccalaureate?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u170	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u171	Mrs Faucillon, I thank you for this question, which allows us to prolong the discussion on a subject mentioned earlier and which I consider very important. We must indeed go further in the pre-recruitment process. This requires developing the processes initiated by the 2013 law, which now concern only a few hundred students per year. Future developments will go in this direction. The deployment of pre-recruitment begins with scholarships, which can be awarded from high school to students wishing to become teachers. Another way, dear to me, is the evolution of the status of education assistants, today to the number of around 50,000 in France. A lot of them are considering being a teacher, but their status is more a brake than an accelerator, which is paradoxical. We will change their status so that it becomes an advantage and allow education assistants to better prepare themselves for the faculty function; It's an important point. I note that you are in favour of the idea of a competition at the end of the licence; It's an interesting option. The current situation, with the competition at the end of Master 1, does not satisfy everyone and raises many questions. The reflection is open. I have also asked the new Scientific Council for National Education to deal with this issue, and your proposal may be accepted. This will be discussed in the future. In any case, we must agree on the objectives of social diversity and effective recruitment of teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u172	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mrs Danièle Herin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u173	Minister, in the Master MEEF – teaching, education and training trades – future teachers learn their profession in two years or even a year for a third of them. This duration is too short to allow students to understand their profession, to deepen their teaching methods and to get into exercise. In addition, the continuing training of teachers is very inadequate, often leaving teachers alone in the face of problems with their classrooms. While the reform that led to the establishment of ESPE – higher schools of faculty and education – in 2013 was positive, it is now a matter of extending it by introducing a lifelong learning continuum for teachers. Our challenge is to develop a system spread over time, capable of creating vocations among students, of accompanying candidates in learning their profession, and of empowering teachers to develop and innovate throughout their working lives. Such requirements involve building a training continuum based on bachelor's, master's and continuing education, in four phases. First, the three-year bachelor's degree should allow students who wish to do so to discover the teaching professions and prepare for competitions from the first year of the bachelor's degree. Each disciplinary license should therefore include pre-professionalization modules, which has already been implemented spontaneously in many UFRs – training and research units. Secondly, the two-year master's degree in ESPE should be reduced by postponing some courses to Phase 3. Thirdly, the tenure phase or the first three years of practice should be considered as a full-fledged training period, allowing for the deepening of the achievements and the confrontation with the practice of the profession. Fourthly, continuing education should become compulsory for all teachers and should be piloted as close to the field as possible. Minister, what is your position, on the one hand, on the recognition of a university career in five years sanctioned by a "master's degree" and, on the other hand, on the continuation of the training of "neo-owners" and teachers after the master's degree? Finally, I would add that we are also studying the possibility of passing the competition at the end of the third year of licence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u174	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u175	Mrs Herin, thank you for your question, directly related to the one just asked by Mrs Faucillon. It shows, like the previous questions, that a reflection must be made on what could be called the continuum of entry into the teacher's career. A consensus could be reached on pre-recruitment as a solution to the problem of recruitment into national education in that it would make it possible to build a pool and improve the social diversity of the faculty, perhaps insufficient today. On the other hand, I repeat, the passage of the 3 licence competition would be of real interest. The idea of a Master 2 competition could also be defended. It all depends on the nature of the pre-recruitment organised prior to the competition. It is clear from the formulation of your question as reflections on the subject that training and entry into the career must be considered more continuously, by offering earlier opportunities to students and by gradually accompanying them towards the vocation of teacher, if confirmed, in order to achieve tenure. You have also discussed the subject of lifelong teacher training. The initial and continuing training of teachers, as we all know, are among the main factors contributing to the success of the school system. They clearly need to be improved. The evolution of ESPE will take into account all the elements you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u176	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u177	Minister, our education system is based on five main principles: freedom of education, free education, neutrality, compulsory education and secularism. I will add a sixth: equal opportunities. The school of the Republic must allow each student to build his or her future and to pretend to occupy all social positions. This is one of the objectives of the Government and parliamentarians of the Republic on the move: to ensure the success of all our children and the excellence of everyone. That is how you, Minister, have undertaken many reforms. Your priority education policy is ambitious, innovative, and must address certain social inequalities by strengthening educational and educational activities in the most difficult areas. The duplication of the CP classes in the REP+, which will be extended to the CE1 classes next year, is an example of this. This strengthening must be accompanied by appropriate training for all teachers in priority education networks. Rethinking and intensifying the initial and in-service training of teachers must be one of our priorities. In addition to mastering their discipline, teachers must learn to learn and master differentiated pedagogy in order to adapt to the needs of each child. Learning disorders, which penalize children in their progression, must also be detectable as quickly as possible by teachers in order to adapt each person's path. It is therefore necessary to strengthen their training in this field, but also to accompany them with specialized staff dedicated to this task. Strengthening pedagogical and educational action also means allowing the recruitment of various and complementary profiles and avoiding the turnover of teachers in certain schools, in order to stabilize the teams and build a long-term educational project. This is why it is necessary to strengthen the attractiveness of the latter by improving in particular the salaries of staff assigned to the REP+ area, as you propose with the gradual introduction of a premium of 3000 euros per year. So, Minister, can you shed some light on the system of training teachers in REP+ and more broadly on your future reform of teacher training? Can you also confirm that the upgrading of the teacher allowance in these areas will be effective in 2018?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u178	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u179	Mrs Racon-Bouzon, your question is important and also linked to previous questions. It will allow me to clarify recruitment and training, and link them to priority education issues. First of all, the training required for priority education applies to all teachers because the methods used in these areas apply to education as a whole. I am thinking in particular of the need to customize the courses and to take into account the specificities of all levels of students. As other countries' school systems around the world show, all this refers to the concept of inclusive school: a school capable of welcoming students from all backgrounds, regardless of their particularities, strengths and weaknesses. This is obviously an issue for the Republican school. In this way, training must increasingly be able to take account of the specificities of pupils. Education in priority areas of education must also be valued. That is why we will, of course, maintain the presidential commitment to establish a specific premium as a priority education network. We are currently discussing with trade union organisations the terms and conditions for the payment of such a premium. In any event, it will be introduced, not only to encourage teachers to work in these institutions, which is not an end in itself, but also to support the students' success. Future developments will reward success in priority education areas. We should be proud to be able to get out of priority education and to have mechanisms to make these networks succeed and sometimes to make them evolve – which is sometimes the case. The following questions should give me an opportunity to clarify my thinking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u180	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u181	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the specific problems of recruiting and replacing teachers in colleges and high schools in rural areas, where many schools face recurring difficulties in filling teaching positions, especially when they do not work full-time. At the Lycée de Terrasson-Lavilledieu, Dordogne, the late recruitment of a mathematics teacher seven weeks after the school year – seven weeks without math classes for several classes – had rightly aroused great concern among parents and students at the beginning of the school year. These problems of recruitment in rural establishments are likely to become more pronounced in the case of time-shared posts between two or three establishments, due to the lack of sufficient attractiveness and the high cost of transportation. Pupils are interrupted throughout the year due to the absence of unreplaced teachers. Indeed, the organization of replacements in the event of absence of less than two weeks, entrusted to the school heads, depends on the availability of the steering wheel of the teachers present to ensure an effective continuity of the teaching. Long-term replacements, however organized by the rectorates, are difficult to ensure. First, TZR teachers – holders in replacement areas – have sometimes practically disappeared, especially in scientific disciplines. Secondly, in rural areas, the call for contractors is particularly difficult to implement due to the lack of candidates. Minister, what arrangements do you intend to put in place to restore confidence by ensuring that all students in France, including those in rural areas, have equal and unbroken access to education and knowledge?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u182	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u183	Mrs Dubois, your question raises many issues, starting with support for schools in rural areas. I establish a very clear symmetry between the efforts we are making in urban areas, particularly in the context of the PER and REP+ policies, and those we have to carry out in rural areas. I had the opportunity very recently, last week, to speak on this subject at the Collège de Rochefort-Montagne, in the Puy-de-Dôme, emblematic of the possibility of educational success in rural areas. I said that we will have a vision for schools and colleges in rural areas and that we will devote resources to them. This first takes the form of rural conventions, which concern just over forty departments and can potentially be extended to sixty-six departments. It is our ambition that all rural departments will benefit from it within the next two years. They must consider not only the existence and rebound of rural schools and colleges on a multi-year basis, but also the issues that you have raised, including the replacement of absent teachers and the permanence of the public education service in rural areas. This last point has several aspects. First, the attractiveness of these schools, both for staff and for students, needs to be strengthened. We will place a great deal of emphasis on educational innovation and on some incentive mechanisms that can be implemented there. We will also insist, as part of a boarding plan, on the revitalization of these institutions. Finally, it is important to stress that a number of mechanisms, such as distance education and the networking of schools in the same rural area in order to address the problem of the replacement of absent teachers, should allow for a real continuity of the public education service. I want to affirm this evening's optimism and voluntarism for schools and colleges in rural areas, because we have a real strategy in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u184	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u185	Minister, health is everyone's business; It is a priority for our country, especially for the future of the younger generations. The school, while training adults and citizens of tomorrow, plays an essential role in monitoring the health of students. We know that it is important and beneficial to address health education issues from an early age. However, it is difficult to comply with the monitoring obligations. For example, some school children do not receive a six-year medical examination, not because of limited financial means but because of a lack of a school doctor, which raises the issue of the attractiveness of this profession. Currently, children are often cared for by several health professionals, whose coordination is of major importance because of this low demographics. Often, however, this is not the case. For example, the school doctor is not systematically informed that a child has been diagnosed by another health professional for dyslexia; He will therefore repeat the tests or ignore this difficulty, as families are not always able to secure the link. The project to set up a health service for health students, which I believe is essential, could improve this coordination and strengthen health education. Such a measure must be supported, which is also a lever of attractiveness for school medicine. Future students must no longer ignore the importance of prevention and health education. They must be able to rely on a built-up and coherent health system and coordinated stakeholders. Minister, what measures do you intend to implement to place health education and health promotion at the heart of the concerns of health professionals and citizens? How can we ensure coordinated action and better information for health education actors now?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u186	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u187	Mrs Rist, the relationship between education and health is essential in the eyes of national education. We know how important health issues are to school success. On this subject, we focus on a few objectives, first and foremost the effectiveness of the medical examination to which students are subjected before the age of six. We know that this objective has not yet been achieved, because of a shortage of school doctors, which must be linked to the other recruitment crises mentioned. Just over 1,500 school doctor positions are budgeted, but only 1,000 are filled, which is insufficient and refers to attractive issues. Some initiatives have been taken, including the inclusion of school medicine as a specialty that can be learned from medical studies. More deeply, together with Agnès Buzyn, we have developed a strategy to achieve the effectiveness of the medical examination, in particular the mobilization of non-formal medicine at the service of school issues. You are right: some of the detections, if they take place early enough, are decisive, especially with regard to hearing. We will mobilize all the forces of civil society and the State to achieve several objectives in this area. Health education is also a key issue. Agnès Buzyn and I have set out to pursue certain objectives that overlap with some of the key problems of our society, in particular the prevention of addictions, for which we have drawn up a coherent plan, implemented from primary school onwards and which is likely to lead to progress; These will be measured in the light of international comparisons, as some countries are very successful in this area. I think we can set in motion a virtuous health circle for health education and education; We are starting this with the joint action of the Ministries of Health and National Education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u188	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u189	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u190	Minister, the school of the Republic is based on an ideal to which our fellow citizens remain deeply committed: equal opportunities. But what equality are we talking about when the school fails to offer all its children the same opportunities for emancipation through reading? Overseas, the illiteracy rate is four to fourteen times higher than the hexagonal average. To get an idea of this, you should know that almost 75% of young Maori people have difficulties reading and that this percentage is 45% in French Guiana and 30% in the West Indies, compared with 12% in Seine-Saint-Denis. This is partly due to the high rate of poverty in the overseas world – as we know, the standard of living affects illiteracy and reading habits. But it is also due to the educational conditions prevailing in these territories, far removed from the hexagonal standards. In addition to the accessibility of schools for young Guyanese or Polynesians, who often re-enter canoe classes, the inadequacy of school infrastructure to meet the needs is a problem. The Ministry of National Education has taken up the problem, which I welcome. While 31.2% of the ultramarine pupils are enrolled in the REP+ area, the increase in the number of teaching staff and the doubling of the CP and EC1 classes will lead to a massive improvement in the conditions for learning to read, thanks to a higher rate of supervision. But let us bear in mind that, for many schoolchildren, in Mayotte, Guyana and elsewhere, the learning of reading is in fact accompanied by that of the French language. Not only do there exist language practices specific to our overseas cultural environments, such as Creole or Tahitian, but these territories also welcome many allophone children because of the importance of migratory flows. For example, Guyana is home to two thirds of allophone children living overseas. At La Réunion, however, almost 30 per cent of all Creole-speaking individuals in their childhood were illiterate in adulthood. So, Minister, can you indicate the teacher training strategy, particularly in FLE and FLS – French as a foreign language and French as a second language – that the ministry is putting in place in these territories to take into account linguistic realities? The good command of French, the language of the Republic, is a major challenge and a requirement for real equality among all citizens, the fundamental value of our republican school.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u191	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u192	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u193	I have had the opportunity to state this on a number of occasions and I repeat it before you, Mr Gérard: mastering the French language is the first issue to be addressed for our school system; If our students do not master reading and writing, written and spoken language, the rest cannot come in addition. It is therefore an essential subject, both in metropolitan France and overseas. We need to devote quantitative resources to this, and we need to pay particular attention to it qualitatively. In quantitative terms, the result is a special effort in favour of the overseas countries and territories. The rates of supervision in the first degree are better than those found in the Hexagon, which is intended: this aims to compensate for the problems you have mentioned, in particular the particularly acute social problems as well as those raised by the diversity of population in several overseas territories. We do this sometimes thanks to priority education policies – as you rightly pointed out – but also through specific policies. Thus, in the case of Guyana, we will create forty new posts for regional and local languages, including indigenous or Bushinengued languages, at the beginning of the coming year. This measure is very important to ensure bilingualism between local and French languages. In qualitative terms, we pay particular attention to Creole, which is increasingly recognized in schools and raises specific pedagogical questions, because of its linguistic proximity to French. Here again, we train teachers more and more at the required master's level, so that Creole is an asset to learn French. We are therefore pursuing a qualitative policy on linguistics overseas and are making a special budgetary effort. We know, of course, that the necessary effort is very important. In particular, it will have as its framework the ESPEs of the overseas territories, which will evolve very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u194	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u195	"Your parents won't be happy with you! " "Finish your job or you don't go to recreation! "You'll never understand anything! "I really don't know what your parents can do with you! "That's not how you can learn to read! Minister, ladies and gentlemen, who here has never heard one of these sentences in a primary school? According to a report by the High Council for Education, 40 per cent of children leave school each year with gaps that will make it difficult for them to attend school. This does not mean that 40% of children are less intelligent than others; It simply means that our system is inadequate. Human beings learn and flourish with experience, at their own pace, in a positive relationship to each other. It is essential to develop cooperative pedagogies and to stimulate curiosity, enthusiasm and the desire to learn. Positive relationships with each other foster learning, benevolence, self-help, and trigger motivation. Benevolence is a catalyst for learning. On the other hand, stress, comparison, competitiveness and judgment cause demotivation, fatigue and moral exhaustion. This leads to school drop-out. Today, in national education, everyone is exhausted: children, teachers and parents. Minister, how do you envisage taking these essential criteria of pedagogy into account in teacher training? Can we not draw inspiration from other countries, which take into account in this training the stages of the child's development, the attention given to his words, his attitude and the different behaviours that could harm him? Could we not learn to listen to children with kindness, not sticking to their labels, promoting autonomy, developing self-esteem, trust and self-help? What if France drew inspiration from Denmark by making empathy a compulsory subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u196	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u197	The question you have asked, Mrs Trastour-Isnart, is obviously at the heart of the pedagogical reflection to be given to national education. As you may know, the expression I'm constantly using to define what we have to do in the years to come is "school of trust." Through this expression, I want to mean that the well-functioning educational systems are the ones where trust can be built: confidence of the institution in its actors, especially teachers; confidence of teachers in their institution; confidence of the whole society, especially of the parents of the pupil, in the school; trust, of course, students in their teachers and, in the end, the students' confidence in themselves, as you stressed at the moment. The study of different educational systems in fashion reveals that this ingredient is, in fact, the most important. It is not decreed, created neither by law nor by any decision; It starts with an educational and educational culture. To do this, we need an alchemy that France is quite capable of, as its history shows, what it has succeeded in doing in the educational field in the past, but also what it is doing at the present time, since, since the situation is very heterogeneous, we can also draw inspiration from very good things done in different parts of the country. France, therefore, has the means to succeed in this synthesis between effort and pleasure, which is sometimes opposed. This synthesis is embodied in some foreign systems, such as the Scandinavian system you mentioned, but also the Asian systems, which are part of those that work well today. The set of educational policies that we will pursue – for example, in the framework of the Premises of Kindergarten, which will be held at the end of March, after the presentation of the preparatory report I entrusted to Boris Cyrulnik – will tend to this alliance between the trust that we must have in our students and the search for excellence. This link between demand and benevolence is the basis of the educational policies that we will pursue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u198	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor for a first question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u199	Minister, the school of the Republic is our common good, but it is not uniform. In this connection, I would like to refer to the school in rural areas so that you can make a positive contribution to your remarks on this subject. When you came to Cahors, on the occasion of the National Conference of Territories, you could have a brief overview of the situation in the Lot. Next year, this department will lose 357 students, so 22 positions, according to estimates, should be abolished – discussions are under way with the departmental director of national education. This loss of speed, with regard to the number of pupils, is an old story for the Lot, and we, the elected representatives and actors of the territories, will not be able to remedy this within two, three or even five years; It will take at least ten years to reverse this deep trend in demographics and attractiveness. In the meantime, our school will deteriorate. It will deteriorate because national budgets are forced and because you, the Minister of National Education, have to implement a system that limits the number of teachers in front of students. Over time, our schools will become weaker, and the vicious circle that you know by heart, like all the rural elected here, will continue. The current and future rural contracts and local agreements will not suffice, Minister. Although the Lot benefits from these devices, no solution has been found, for two reasons: the term is not long enough and postal protection remains insufficient. We should therefore go further. Moreover, during the period of convention-related preservation, local actors and elected representatives of the Territory do not take full measure of the necessary organization and they do not have the desirable room for manoeuvre. I therefore wish, Minister, to ask you a question and to make a proposal. Are you ready to stop the clear cuts in rural areas? On the other hand, at the National Conference of Territories held in Cahors, the Prime Minister said he wanted to give the territories carte blanche in terms of public services. If you agreed to leave us a little oxygen for two years, minister, we, the elected locals – I'll make a big deal of it as a member of Parliament – would agree to take over and innovate to make the numbers lie.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u200	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u201	Mr Pradié, I am pleased to be able to speak again on the issue of ruralism, as I have had the opportunity to say earlier, to make this a very high priority. Our policy in this area will therefore be decisively proactive; The President of the Republic made a clear commitment on this point, as did the Prime Minister during his very recent visit to the Lot, where I was present at his side, as you recalled. I will take the example of your department to illustrate the general reasoning to which you invite me. As soon as next year – it may be good news for you, I don't know if you know it – there will indeed be fewer students, that is the negative aspect, but we will create five FTEs, full-time equivalents, in the first degree. And that is the image of what we will be able to do in many rural departments. In other words, at a time when population declines in the first degree, particularly in rural areas, the Government has chosen to create jobs there. I also want to put this point in relation to what was said earlier on the second degree. Yes, I assume, we have made the choice to give priority to primary school, which allows us to create positions in the first degree and to pursue a proactive policy, not only in the cities – with the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 – but also in rural areas, thus being able to maintain schools and colleges, and above all to give them a new impetus. That is the whole meaning of your question, which I take as a leap: from a budgetary point of view, we are giving ourselves the means to respond to the problems that you have raised. But perhaps the most important thing is the qualitative aspect: what is important is not to limit ourselves to a defensive position, by setting increasingly generous thresholds for school non-closure, but to adopt an offensive posture, that is to say, to make schools and colleges more attractive. That is why I welcome your comments. We have to empower all actors, elected as representatives of national education, in order to define educational projects for schools and colleges and thus to restore educational and educational attractiveness to the territories, thanks to which we will settle there. That is the meaning of our action, and we are giving ourselves the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u202	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u203	Thank you for your answer to my previous question, Minister. However, I would like to insist: I would like both of you, the Minister of the Republic, and I, the Member of the National Assembly, to take advantage of the white card that the Prime Minister has given us, to make sure that we innovate in our territories in the coming weeks, since the cutlet is there. I will now ask you about another subject. On November 7, a survey by the Directorate of Evaluation, Prospective and Performance – DEPP – of national education pointed out that the spelling level of French schoolchildren has been in free fall for thirty years. To this end, a recent article from Parisien added one of the most alarming truth: teachers themselves have major weaknesses in the mastery of the French language. This is, in fact, a matter of great concern. If teachers find it difficult to write French correctly, there must be consequences for students and the learning they follow. If teachers make spelling and grammar mistakes, students will reproduce them. As you know, good command of the language and spelling is a necessity, which contributes, among other things, to ensuring membership of society. This finding of a lower level among teachers is not acceptable to us or certainly to you. This is about the credibility of their function. At a time when the Government was reforming access to university and the reform of the baccalaureate was announced in 2021, it was necessary to make learning fundamentals, including good command of the French language, a priority. We must defend French and ensure that it is controlled by all; We must be more strict and attentive in the perfect knowledge of fundamentals. This applies, in particular, to teachers, and more probably to teachers. So what do you think, Minister, of the opportunity to introduce a certification of the good command of French for teachers, when they are recruited, in order to ensure a minimum service logic for French students?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u204	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u205	Your question, Mr Pradié, again refers to the central question, which has already been asked, of the mastery of French; This, I repeat, is the first of the subjects for our education system. The mastery of spelling rests – should we remind him? – on vocabulary and grammar. One of the first things I have done is therefore to recall these two pillars, using these very terms: vocabulary and grammar; In other words, knowledge of words and knowledge of the relationships between words. I also stress the importance of literature, that is, the relationship between language and life. This aspect is at the heart of the educational reforms that we are carrying out: a number of developments have taken place in this direction, with initial instructions and guidelines. The deterioration of the spelling, of which you have spoken, is a reality measured by the DEPP since 1986: the dictation carried out every ten years throughout France allows us to establish this fact. The same kind of phenomenon is observed in other countries. We must therefore show voluntarism. First of all, we have taken steps this year for CP and CE1 and continue with those relating to the elementary school for the consolidation of spelling. My views on the day-to-day dictation were mostly retained, but last December I advocated some 20 measures that are beginning to be implemented, notably through the work of the inspection bodies and the continuing training provided to the teachers. In general, changes in the recruitment and training of teachers will obviously tend to consolidate their level of French. That is what will make it possible to establish the virtuous circle of the mastery of our language, which we all call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u206	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u207	Minister, attracting the best profiles to the fields of transmission, but also to the creation of knowledge, is a key issue in accessing today's economy, the economy of progress and knowledge. However, France is currently suffering from a deficit in the attractiveness of the teaching professions, which makes it very difficult to attract the best of a generation. The average salary of a teacher is 2461 euros net, and our budget margins are very limited to play on the financial lever. The sense of loss of meaning is well present in the faculty. In its report published on 4 October, the Court of Auditors sets out a severe picture of the management of teachers: the assignment of beginners to difficult schools, the absence of multiannual overall management, the weak development of continuing training, etc. The list is alarming, and previous quinquennats have been only missed opportunities to reform teacher training, recruitment and management, in order to revive the attractiveness of the profession. I am pleased with the willingness you expressed, following the Court of Auditors' report, to develop a global and systemic vision to enhance the teaching profession. I would like to know the intentions and timetable of the Government with regard to the positive recommendations of the Court, such as strengthening pre-recruitment, professionalization or the qualitative approach to human resources management. I would also like to know your position on other proposals from the Court, such as the annualisation of working time or bivalence. Finally, I would like to know whether other avenues are being explored to make the teaching profession more attractive, for example mechanisms to support and facilitate innovative teacher projects or the establishment of recognition marks, favouring both the valorisation of individual initiatives and the creation of a collective sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u208	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u209	Mr Berta, thank you for this question which, again, extends some of the previous points and makes it possible to evoke the future of the teaching function. On this subject, I would like to be part of a long-term vision. At a time when our society is wondering about the future of all trades, especially as a result of the evolution of technologies, I have the deep conviction that I am trying to express through a vision of human resources, the centrality of the faculty function in any society, particularly in French society. In the coming decades, we will increasingly need people, human beings, to ensure the training and quality of training, not only for children and adolescents, but also throughout life. Modern societies will devote ever more resources to this. This optimistic perspective must be taken in the face of certain professional anxieties, which may exist for both teachers and other trades. It will lead us to change not only recruitment – we talked about it tonight, especially with the issue of pre-recruitment – but also initial and continuing training, which is absolutely essential. If, I repeat, pre-recruitment will be one of the answers, human resources management will be another, very important one. I have, of course, read with great seriousness the report of the Court of Auditors which you have mentioned, and together with the new Director-General for Human Resources Management of National Education, we have the ambition of major reforms in this area. The objective is to conduct more human resources management, i.e. closer to the ground. We heard that earlier when one Member of Parliament from overseas highlighted the difficulties that overseas teachers may encounter, but this is equally true for some academies in metropolitan France. We need to manage the teams as close as possible to the ground, which will be discussed with the trade union organisations in the coming months. We must arrive at a winning system for all teachers, and I am quite convinced that this is possible; on this and other issues, international comparison will be very useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u210	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u211	Language learning has a fundamental place in the construction of citizenship, the enrichment of personality and openness to the world. This has become an essential element of the employability of young people in France and abroad. The President of the Republic himself seized this issue by stating, in his speech by the Sorbonne, that he wanted each student to speak two European languages by 2024. Border regions are privileged places to promote the practice of a foreign language and to conduct experiments. In areas such as Savoy, the Pyrenees or Alsace, we should do everything we can to ensure that all students take bilingual courses, which also represent a unique opportunity to integrate other labour markets. In order to achieve this ambition in the near future – 2024 – we should already reach a rate of almost 100% of bilingual education, particularly in border regions. Unfortunately, we are still far from it. By way of illustration, in the Haut-Rhin, faced with a decline in the level of German mastery, Swiss or German companies no longer, or too rarely, turn to French workers, while their lack of labour is evident. Language proficiency is largely due to a chronic shortage of living language teachers, particularly German teachers. In this field, the number of candidates is usually lower than the needs of national education, which has no choice but to employ contractors. This lack of staff, coupled with a lack of resources, represents a significant obstacle to the opening of new classes, which would allow for the learning of modern languages by more students. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Minister, in the face of an ambitious objective and a deteriorating situation, what means does the Government intend to implement in order to achieve a better mastery of modern languages, regional or foreign, and to achieve bilingual education, to begin with, for all students in the border regions? In order to deal with the lack of teachers and to solve this problem in part, could we not begin by extending to other languages the system of teachings of language and culture of origin, or ELCO?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u212	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u213	Mr Fuchs, I am obviously very attentive to the question of languages, which can be linked to the question of the mastery of French, the subject of the previous questions. Indeed, we all know that the mastery of languages is at the service of the mastery of the language: learning another language from an early age also benefits the learning of French. Multilingualism is therefore an objective that can be set, not only for the mastery in itself of foreign languages, but also for the cognitive development it allows, and for the development of cultural openness and exchanges, particularly in cross-border regions. This objective is therefore, of course, at the heart of the French system. The issue has progressed for some time, particularly since Jack Lang, in the 2000s, wanted to extend foreign language learning to primary school: progress has been made over the long term. However, I agree with you that this progress remains largely insufficient and that we still have a long way to go. The first step will be to consolidate the learning of a first living language in primary school, as soon as possible, especially in cross-border regions, which must offer the capacity to come from mother-tongue speakers in schools, with concrete contractual prospects. Moreover, our pedagogy must evolve, and digital developments are extremely useful in this field. Finally, without being able to be exhaustive, I would like to briefly mention the re-establishment of the balance sheets at the college, which obviously goes in the direction of the bilingualism which you call your wishes, and the future reform of the baccalaureate, which will be accompanied by a certainly renewed approach to language learning and their certification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u215	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u216	Minister, the increase of 2800 positions in primary education, which is justified by the priority placed on reading and fundamental achievements, is positive and should be able to meet the target set. However, a profound evil has been gnawing the school institution for years: the profession of teacher no longer makes dreams and the recruitment of holders is in crisis. In 2017, only 36% of German posts were filled, 37% of classical letter posts, 71% of English posts, 74% of mathematics posts and 88% of modern letter posts. In addition to questions about the quality of recruitment, given the low ratio of candidates to successful candidates, in some subjects as fundamental as mathematics or letters, the decrease of 2600 posts related to unfilled posts requires the use of individual contractors and contractors in return. This reinforces the precarisation of staff, which is increasingly visible in institutions. In the field, some contractors also argue, either wrongly or rightly, that when Sauvadet law forces the state to turn their contract into an open-ended contract, it is strangely more difficult for them to find a new job at the beginning of the year and they can no longer benefit from the law. Others, tempted by internal or reserved competitions, for fear of a change of academy while they have accumulated years of contract in the same academy and are well established there. As a result, many settled for a long time next to the incumbents, in long-term precariousness. As a result, educational teams are increasingly made up of relatively unstable staff and different statutes. We know that it's been a long time to reserve the positions of agrarian in high school. What about it? Career improvement measures have been welcomed to overcome this deep crisis of recruitment, but can they be sufficient to restore attractiveness to a profession whose image has been singularly damaged, in thirty years, by the increased complexity of working conditions, with violence, supernumerary classes and sometimes complex relationships with some students or parents? What, then, does the Government plan to address these recruitment problems effectively and sustainably, while education remains the indispensable pillar and the priority of our democracy in training for citizenship and the values of the Republic? Thank you for your voluntarism, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u217	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u218	Mrs Bannier, thank you for this question, which relates to previous questions. We can see this evening that the issue of the attractiveness of the teaching profession is central, and rightly so: there is no school system without the teaching profession being at its centre. I said earlier that the foreign school systems that worked best were those based on trust. It also corresponds to a system in which the teacher is placed at the centre, with the faculty function being well paid and enjoying a real social prestige. In this area, therefore, it is not a single factor that will allow us to bounce back, but a plurality of elements that will create a climate. I am obviously very committed to creating this climate, first of all through the ministerial speech. My first action, as Minister of National Education, was to express my confidence in the teachers of France: my message to French society is this respect for the teachers. The surveys show that teachers are respected: French society loves them, although they sometimes feel unloved. We have to change that state of mind. This requires measures to address the school climate. Some teachers do not experience certain atmospheres that may exist in our system. As you know, I have taken steps to ensure security and respect for the rules. We also have to deal with recruitment issues – I will not go back to that because they have been discussed quite extensively tonight. Remuneration issues also arise, which we must look at from a multi-year perspective. Finally, we have to deal with statutory issues, in the strict sense of the word. You have raised the issue of aggregates. In order to manage our system rationally, we must concentrate them, especially in high schools. This is one of the desirable developments, including to create a greater link between high school and university, in a vision of high school and bachelor's degree, which also corresponds to some of the policies that we are conducting. As you can see, this is a whole, which implies a shared vision between the more than 850,000 teachers in France and their institution. That is the path we are taking.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u219	We come to the questions of the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u220	Mr President, at almost midnight and a half, at the beginning of this year, you may allow me – and I would ask the minister to excuse me – to begin by reflecting on how the work of the National Assembly is organized. We are addressing important issues this evening, with a minister who leads the most important part of the nation's future. At a time when we are invited to renew our methods, to debate less in the Chamber than in committee, let us agree, Mr Minister, that your answers would be just as audible, if not more audible, for the whole nation than those you are doing this evening! Forgive me for questioning you this way – you have nothing to do with it, Mr President – but since we are invited to renovate our methods, I think these issues would benefit from being renovated, to make more room for parliamentary proposals, such as those we heard tonight. While respecting my speaking time, Minister, I would simply like to ask you, as elected from Seine-Saint-Denis – although this territory is not the only one to make this type of return – about the Government's legitimate desire to guarantee freedom of education, and about the possibility of opening schools or even classes in private education. In a department such as mine, where there is a strong demand for private education, it would appear that, when a new school is established, national education does not provide new resources for teachers but withdraws them from an existing private educational institution. This would amount to an increase in the overall number of pupils while maintaining the number of teachers, which would obviously be a deterioration of the teaching conditions. In order to guarantee the freedom of choice of education, it seems to me that there must be equality between each other. I wanted to ask you about these situations, which I was able to meet and which seemed to me to be objectively abnormal and contrary to the principles upheld by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u221	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u222	Thank you, Mr. Lagarde, for this first question of the evening on private education. Private education under contract participates in the public service of national education. It corresponds to constitutional principles and follows fairly clear rules. These rules are primarily budgetary: at the national level, private education accounts for about 20 per cent of our education, and the proportion of our budget we spend on it is equivalent. There is no rule of communicating vessels within an academy comparable to the one you have just mentioned; It is possible that some comments may have been heard in this regard, but this does not correspond to reality. A flat-rate calculation per school is obviously carried out, depending on the number of pupils it can accommodate, limited in each of them, and this is part of the dialogue with the competent bodies of private education. There is therefore no particular concern to have on this point. Concerning the Seine-Saint-Denis department, I know that the means of private education were not in decline this year and will not be in the next budget; the Academy of Créteil is attentive to this, especially since it dialogues with private education under contract so that it contributes more and more to satisfy the requirement of social mix which is particularly necessary in such a territory. So I think I can dispel your fears. I reiterate that private education under contract is, of course, part of the public service of national education. From this point of view, our dialogue with him must enable us to achieve our objectives in terms of both the mastery of basic knowledge – I have talked about it a lot this evening – and the fight against inequalities, which is an essential objective of education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u223	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u224	Minister, I know your commitment to schools in rural areas. I even heard you speak earlier about this "very high priority." You know that the closures of classes or schools are seen as a real trauma to children, families, elected representatives and the inhabitants of the communes concerned. The school, in our small communes, is not only a strong symbol that contributes to the identity of our villages, to the attractiveness of our territories and to the social bond within the population. It is also, and above all, a great opportunity for children in rural areas to receive high-quality education from high-value teachers. Here is an example: the school of the rural commune of Cigné, located in my constituency, in Mayenne. This school has two classes and a high quality education. Children learn in excellent conditions, thanks to a small workforce that allows for the respect of the rhythms of learning and a better consideration of the needs of each student, with the flexibility of the multi-level classes. However, it is envisaged that this school will be closed in order to bring it together with that of the town centre of Ambrières-les-Vallées. If this were to happen, the average number of children per class would rise to thirty, well beyond the national education benchmark, that is, twenty-three pupils. This would result in a decline in the quality of learning, longer transport times for the students concerned and the announced death of this village whose grocery store has already lowered the curtain. Mr Minister, in the first degree you are advocating a maximum of 12 students per class in difficult areas. As you know, people living in rural areas are already victims of medical desertification, the digital divide and the closure of many local public services. Should their children now be left behind in national education? Minister, what do you answer to the elected officials, the inhabitants and the parents of the school in Cigné? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u225	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u226	Thank you, Mr. Favennec Becot, for your question, which allows us to deepen the theme of ruralism and the defence of schools in rural areas. I had the opportunity to say earlier that we must adopt an offensive approach in this area, that is to say, promoting quality in the service of pupils, families, but also rural areas, because we know how central school is for them. In this context, each case is unique. I am pleased to keep in mind that rural primary schools are on average more successful than the average of primary schools. This results from various factors, including a certain humanity characterizing these places, but also the multi-level classes, which, when well designed, can correspond to a pedagogical ideal. That is why I have asked all the academy inspectors and all the inspectors of national education of the first degree to be very attentive to our strategies, which must be qualitative. As I said earlier, we have been able to avoid too many closures in rural areas at the beginning of next year, and above all to allow for a rebound. I repeat, every case is special. Of course, I will not comment tonight on the specific case of the school in Cigné, even if we can pay particular attention to it. I know that today there are three schools for two sites; It is therefore natural that consideration should be given to possible rationalizations. The departmental rural contracts, which I mentioned, can provide a framework for such reflections, and I know that there have been in Mayenne. It is very important to reach local consensus: sometimes groups are quite relevant; Sometimes this is not the case. Rather, then, than comment on a particular case, I will state principles of action: the vitality of rural life, the interest of students, but also pragmatism, our ability to see what is best to do at the local level. But I will, of course, pay particular attention to the point you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u227	We come to the questions of the New Left Group. Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u228	Our discussions are part of a screening session, and my first question, Minister, is that there is a right of continuation with regard to the recruitment of assisted contracts in national education. On 3 October, during your hearing before the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education about the school year, I asked you about the non-renewal on 1 January 2018 of aided contracts to assist school principals in their administrative duties. You told me that you had "asked prefects and academy directors to have a case-by-case approach so as not to create impossible situations." I take witness to my colleagues who are still present in the Chamber, few, but courageous:...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u229	The best!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u230	... this approach has not been implemented on a case-by-case basis; all of the assisted jobs have not been renewed, which has exposed school principals to significant difficulties in the performance of their duties. What do you intend to do for them? My second question concerns the number of teachers in physical and sports education. While 2000 additional places will be created in the sciences and techniques of physical and sports activities, or STAPS, a field in tension, you announce a decrease of 170 positions, or 20%, open to the external competition of the CAPEPS – certificate of fitness for the faculty of physical and sports education. However, the number of candidates in the competition – more than 5000 – is increasing. We want to discourage vocations that we would not do otherwise! This is a very negative signal, at the very moment when you made a commitment, Minister, to give more space to sport in schools before, during and after the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, which France has just secured. On the National School Sport Day last September, you announced a "Generation 2024" plan including the creation of 1000 school sports sections in addition to the 3000 existing ones. Can you tell us the deployment schedule for these sections? Can the first ones be opened from the start of 2018? You also announced the creation of a "sport trades" sector in high school. Again, can you tell us on what schedule?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u231	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u232	Mr Juanico, this question has a lot to do with it, so it will not be easy to answer it in two minutes. First, the question of administrative assistance to principals refers, as you know, to our general policy on assisted contracts, which can be described as courageous. I have been asked to speak on this point again today. The Government has made choices, which I will not remind you – you know them very well – to change employment policy by giving up the aided contracts, which were vehicles of precariousness and corresponded to functions that could be assumed in another way in our system. This is the meaning of what we have done with regard to the reception of students with disabilities: gradually, more AESH contracts – accompanying students with disabilities – are more robust, and fewer assisted contracts. Thus, in the 2017 school year, we had as many assisted contracts as in the previous school year for the reception of these students. With regard to support for school principals, it is true that there have been fewer aided contracts this year than the previous one. However, what I told you in October was true: support for school principals still exists in a number of cases – less than before, but we have ensured that prefects and academy inspectors make special efforts, for example overseas and in several metropolitan departments. This should, however, invite us to reflect on the possibility of providing administrative assistance to school principals by means other than assisted contracts. Thank you for raising the very important issue of sport, which is a priority in the run-up to the Olympic Games in 2024, but also, more generally, because of health and development issues. Yes, we aim to create 1000 additional sports sections; It is an ambitious goal, of course, and we will give it the human resources. The question of competitions should not be viewed in a schematic and simplistic manner. In particular, we must take into account retirements, which explain what you have said in this regard. Of course, we will pursue the ambitious policy that I have put forward in the service of sport in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u233	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u234	Minister, the 2017 school year was marked by the "school of trust". Based on four main measures, it included the duplication of classes among its main axes. The aim was to train classes of twelve pupils in preparatory courses and first-year elementary courses in priority education networks and strengthened priority education networks, in order to combat school difficulties by acting at the root, i.e. from the first years of learning basic knowledge. While those measures were commendable, it seemed that the implementation of the system was encountering difficulties. The duplication of classes requires an increase in the number of teachers in the schools concerned. Is there still a reservoir of replacements in case of illness or departure of the teachers in training? The forecast management of national education staff is worrying up to your ranks. For the 2018 school year, national education plans for 5,600 CP classes to be split into priority education networks and enhanced priority education networks, with an additional 3,881 teaching positions. The question then arises as to how to ensure the logistics of the classrooms: our local authorities and our institutions must find a financial, logistical and humane answer to the questions posed by this new system, even though they suffer from a decrease in endowments and the reduction of their aided contracts – we have just talked about it – and they are already struggling to limit the number of students per class to twenty-four. During the previous legislature, the system "more teachers than classes" had been introduced, which introduced pedagogical practices based on cooperation between teachers, at the service of apprenticeships and not on performance alone. What must take precedence, what must be of concern to us, Minister, is the end of the link between social and economic inequalities and academic success: every child, regardless of his or her territory of origin or social origin, must have the same opportunities at the beginning of his or her school career. What about the less affluent territories in Hexagon and overseas? Minister, can you tell the national representation the number of classes that have actually been split and those that could not be split? In this regard, are there any corrective measures planned?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u235	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u236	Thank you, Ms. Manin, for referring to this issue of the doubling of CP classes into an enhanced priority education network and its continuation, which we have announced: the doubling of CP and EC1 classes into a priority education network and an enhanced priority education network. Let us remember that this measure is first and foremost a wonderful news for France, inspired, as you know, by the best international studies on the issue. If the President of the Republic has committed himself to this matter, it is because it has been shown that, in order to go to the root of the fight against social inequalities – as you have said very well – we must act as soon as possible, by targeting our action on the most disadvantaged territories. It is this voluntary choice that has been made and that has been at work since the beginning of last year. Above all, we must salute not only the inspiration that I have just recalled, but also the action, since this reform has been a reality since the beginning of last year. We were told the opposite, on the pretext that we would have run out of time. The reform has indeed become a reality, since we were able to prepare it between June and September. In 85% of cases, therefore, CPs in REP+ could be physically divided by two and, in 100% of cases, we were able to hire two teachers for twenty-four students, i.e., in most cases, to have classes of twelve students. This is wonderful news, which I wanted to remind you before discussing the practical points arising from it. Pedagogical support is necessary because this measure is the advanced point of a policy of mastering basic knowledge for elementary school. And of course there are quantitative, budgetary issues, since 3700 classes were split up at the beginning of the year and it is about the same number of posts that will be created next year, only for this measure. We have maintained much of the "more masters than classes" system, which will be evaluated in order to allow us to make decisions in the future. We have made it coexist with this new measure, the first impressions of which are extremely encouraging.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u237	We conclude with a question from a non-attached Member of Parliament. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u238	Minister, the 2017 school year was unfortunately marked by a serious shortage of teachers in national education. At primary level, there are 573 teaching posts in unfilled schools and more than 900 vacancies in secondary schools. Why? Many denounce the infantilisation of teachers, an increase in administrative tasks and even psychological pressure on the actors of national education. All this is probably true. However, wouldn't the problem also come from the sense of abandonment felt by teachers, who sometimes feel that they are under-supported by their leadership? I will take only one recent example: that of Joseph Gallieni High School in Toulouse. Half of its teachers called for help last Tuesday and called for a real "Marshall Plan". Let us take up their grievances: verbal and physical assaults that become widespread and trivial; intrusions of outside students who come to sow trouble and commit offences; classroom and boarding; widespread violent fighting within the institution; gender-based violence against girls; drug trafficking. The list is long, too long, and the means to fight are unfortunately sometimes to subscribers absent according to the teaching teams. Some students, it must be said, leave prison or come to class with an electronic bracelet; others have a fairly good criminal record; icing on the cake, some high school students are registered S, remember! Mr Minister, because I welcome the reforms of common sense that you have begun to launch, I ask you this question: since a few video surveillance cameras will not suffice, what solution can you find to rekindle the desire of teachers to practise their profession and, therefore, to combat the shortage of teachers in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u239	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u240	Madame Ménard, the crisis at the Gallieni High School in Toulouse raises a more general question about the school climate, which can be linked to that of the prestige of the teaching function and of the happiness to exercise it – in school matters, one can relate all the factors between them. I will refer to this crisis before turning to the general problems that you have addressed. It is obvious that we must react to this crisis, as we must do for every settlement crisis. That's what I did, in connection with Toulouse's rectorate. These days, I have sent a mission from the General Inspectorate to accurately identify the situation and to demonstrate initial support to the teachers. This support was at the heart of the speech that I held on the day I took office, as I said earlier. All teachers in France must feel supported by their minister, by French society and, of course, by national representation. It's a key point. I take this rostrum to send them this message, which must be heard: support will be expressed in all concrete cases where teachers will feel isolated in the face of phenomena of violence and denial of the values of the Republic, which are at the centre of the school. That is why we have made several arrangements, such as the strengthening of mobile security teams – that of the Toulouse Academy is present in the Gallieni High School – or others, aimed at observing respect for the principles of secularism, sometimes called into question. On the other hand, according to my information, there are no S listings in this establishment, contrary to what has been said by the press; We will see in the next few days whether this is confirmed or not. Force must be on the right side, and that's what will happen for Gallieni High School. Strength must also be on the teachers' side. We must accompany all crisis situations. I know that the majority of students, in such a case, only ask for a return to calm. I promise he'll come back to Gallieni High.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u241	We have completed the questions on education and teacher recruitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-01-16-O1112.u242	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Questions on first degree education. The meeting is adjourned.
