ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u1	The President of the National Assembly received today, from the Minister of the Interior, a communication informing him that yesterday, Sunday, November 25, 2018, Mr.Francis Chouat was elected Member of Parliament for the first riding of the Essonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u2	The next item is the discussion, on a further reading, of the draft amending finance law for 2018 (No. 1405 corrected, 1443).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u3	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u4	Here we are gathered to re-examine a text that was recently considered by your assembly and then by the Senate. Composed of only a few articles, this amending finance bill for 2018 – PLFR – is not an object of catching up, nor of the tax debate – moreover, only thirty amendments are currently under discussion – nor of any inadequacies in the budget appropriations for the year since we have avoided the decrees in advance. As we speak, you can see, Mr. Rapporteur-General, that the Government has not yet presented any to you. This year, the text that the Senate rejected, for essentially political reasons – even though the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee had welcomed the Government's action, notably the reduction of the articles of the PLFR to the simplest expression of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, LOLF – responds to a double impasse, because it does not present any tax measures and it will not be preceded by an advance decree. If the Senate did not have the opportunity to examine all the budget items, it was because it wished to reject the text from the balance item, leaving it to your assembly to consider more than it did. I recall that the major assumptions revised during the introduction of the 2019 Finance Bill have not moved, whether it is the forecast of a public deficit or the 1.7% growth assumption. We do not take advantage of the parliamentary shuttle to change these great balances or other elements. By voting against this text, honourable senators have done nothing but deny the evidence that it is only ensuring the soundness of our budget for 2018, which had already been stressed at first reading. The PLFR is limited almost exclusively to cancellations of the €2.7 billion reserve appropriations, without affecting the operational expenditure of the ministries. It makes it possible to meet the inevitable end-of-year expenditure of EUR 2.1 billion out of the more than EUR 300 billion of the State's appropriations; That seems acceptable to me. It also allows – and this is not nothing – to meet the commitments made under the PLF, to set an expenditure target of EUR 600 million less on the standard of the State's pilotable expenditure. We are content to follow Parliament's vote, since this year there was no freezing, no interdepartmental taxation – the opposite of choice, because it dilutes responsibilities – and I myself, once it is not customary, thawed more than 2 billion credits, including for the benefit of the Ministry of Armed Forces. This PLFR, at the request of the Senate Finance Committee, contributes to the "syncrisation" of the employment patterns of the ministries. By restoring the sincerity of the employment ceilings, we will be able to abandon the use of job patterns and thus restore the autonomy of public managers, allowing them to manage their wage bill more freely in accordance with the employment ceilings voted by Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why I ask you, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to re-establish the text as it was voted on at first reading by your House. By adopting a PLFR without any tax provisions, we will work on a method while respecting parliamentary authorization since no advance order has been presented to the committees – a first since 2001.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u5	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u6	The amending finance bill for 2018 was passed in the Council of Ministers fifteen days ago, on November 7. The calendar of this "PLFR flash" – different from last year's "PLFR blitz" – is tightened but, I maintain, compatible with the limited object of this text. In accordance with the Government's commitment, it contains only budgetary provisions or provisions which must be included in the amending finance law, in accordance with the rules of the LOLF. It is thus limited to nine articles and does not contain any tax provisions. That is why I objected at first reading to all the amendments on tax measures: I consider them to be horsemen because, in my view, they have no connection, even indirectly, with the bill. I have observed that the rapporteur-general of the Senate Finance Committee has adopted the same attitude and I welcome it. The organic category of amending finance laws, the area of which is defined by the LOLF and authorizes the possible inclusion of tax provisions, should not be confused with the actual amended finance law, which, in this case, did not originally contain any tax provisions and which, like all laws, is subject to the first paragraph of article 45 of the Constitution, which prohibits legislative riders. This flash PLFR makes it possible, for the first time since 1985, to prevent an advance order from being made in order to make budgetary adjustments in progress or at the end of management, without parliamentary authorization. This is a significant step forward for Parliament's rights. This means promulgating the PLFR at the very beginning of December, in order to guarantee the payment of the December payments, the pre-liquidation of which takes place at the beginning of the month. The draft was adopted without amendment by the National Assembly on 13 November. The Senate, at its November 19 sitting, after having passed the first four sections of the bill without amendment, did, however, reject the balance clause, which automatically led to the rejection of the first part of the PLFR and, consequently, of the entire text. However, at the meeting of the Senate Finance Committee, the rapporteur-general had indicated that his general interpretation was positive and that he had no reason to disagree with this PLFR. He proposed an abstention. However, in a public meeting, following the unfavourable vote by groups that disagreed with the Government's policy, rejection prevailed. The Joint Joint Committee, which met last Tuesday, could only note that it could not reach agreement on all the remaining provisions. That is why we are meeting today for a rereading examination. The Finance Committee met last Thursday to consider 19 amendments; Eighteen were rejected and one was withdrawn. Of these 19 amendments, only one was new, the other 18 having already been seen and rejected at first reading. The debate was therefore rather brief in committee, and we passed the bill without amendment, in accordance with the vote in the Assembly at first reading. I'll be pretty brief myself. However, I would like to say a word about two topics that emerged during the discussions: the special trust account "Energy Transition" and the financing of the external operations and internal missions of the Ministry of Armed Forces – the OPEXs and the MISSINTs. Article 2 provides for the reallocation to the general budget of approximately EUR 600 million of the product of the internal consumption tax on energy products, ICTPE. I regret the political exploitations of this technical adjustment which have been relayed by the press. It has been erroneously claimed that EUR 600 million has been withdrawn from the energy transition policy. However, the adjustment in question does not affect the amount of money devoted to it; it has neither the purpose nor the effect of improving the budgetary balance of the State. Such an adjustment takes place every year in the law of finance or in the law of amending finance, without any controversy so far. And because of this, it simply aims to allocate to the special trust account "Energy Transition" an amount consistent with its purpose, which is limited by law. As a reminder, this account only finances part of the energy transition, relating to the obligations to buy electricity produced from renewable energies, in accordance with a deliberation by the Energy Regulatory Commission – CRE – voted annually. I suggest changing his name in the next finance bill, to avoid this kind of misunderstanding. As in each year, the Government has proposed to adjust the income from the trust account to the amount of expenditure resulting from the latest discussion of the REC, dated 12 July 2018. Failure to make such an adjustment would have no impact on the budgetary balance of the State, since the surplus revenue could not, in any event, be spent: the expenditure of the trust account being standardized and controlled by the CRE, the absence of an adjustment would simply have had the effect of finding an unspent surplus in the account. A final word on the financing of OPEX and MISSINT. It was generally agreed that the former rule of inter-ministerial solidarity in funding OPEX did not contribute to budgetary sincerity. The annual provision for external and internal operations needs to be further calibrated; That is what the military programming law provides for, and I welcome it. The emphasis must be placed on the sincerity of initial budgeting, as provided for in the law on public finance programming, which, let me say, must take precedence over this point. The Commission has introduced a self-insurance principle which allows only exceptional situations to be limited to adjustments which may affect during the year the ceilings defined by mission. It is this principle, Minister, which the Government has applied in this PLFR for the "Defence" mission. You have also confirmed to the national representative that the planned cancellations will have no effect on the delivery of material for our armies. In the name of the same self-insurance principle, the Department of Armed Forces does not contribute, unlike previous years, to the funding of other departments at the end of management. Defence resources have thus been preserved. Previously, advance decrees provided for inter-ministerial funding to finance OPEX, at the same time with a levy from the Ministry of Armed Forces' precautionary reserve to finance other policies. It is healthy to have put an end to these practices criticized on all sides. For having been the first to worry about it in committee, I understand those of my colleagues who have asked for explanations on this subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] However, when consistent responses are made and the sincerity of the finance law is improved, it is to be welcomed. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I wholeheartedly support this amending finance bill, which I invite you, like the Finance Committee, to vote in the text adopted by our House at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u7	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u8	We are coming to the end of the budget marathon and, Mr.Minister, I am very pleased to acknowledge that, contrary to the previous quinquennium, an effort has been made to "sincerize" the accounts, particularly with regard to OPEX, which is the most visible element of this insincerity. Last year, the difference from the forecast was more than EUR 1 billion, which is considerable; Between 2017 and 2019, you plan to double the provision from 450 million euros to 1 billion – 950 million if internal security operations are not taken into account. This, of course, is a good thing. I take the opportunity to do some "political archaeology" to temper your tendency to consider that nothing has been done for thirty years and that it all started 18 months ago. In fact, under Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium, the one I know best, the provision of OPEX had increased sharply, as my colleague François Cornut-Gentille can confirm. In 2007, the provision covered only 53% of the actual cost of OPEX; When Nicolas Sarkozy left power in 2012, coverage reached 72%. This operation of sincerity, which looked quite like the one you are conducting, was not only stopped but collapsed under the presidency of François Hollande, the provision only covering 46% of the total cost at the end of his quinquennium. In 2018, you provided 57% of the actual cost of OPEX. In 2019, if the cost of OPEX remains constant at 1.3 billion euros, the provision will cover 73% of the real cost of OPEX and will be at the same level as during Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium. I can only welcome this, although I regret that this effort was interrupted between 2012 and 2017. On the other hand, it is a pity that inter-ministerial solidarity can no longer be used to finance the excesses of the OPEX, as was the case before. However, this inter-ministerial solidarity is one of our main principles and it is, in particular, enshrined in the law of military programming, which it is important that you respect. That part of this expenditure be borne by the other ministries and by the Ministry of Defence itself, in proportion to its own reserves, has a republican meaning. You have to stick to it. For increasing defence appropriations to, in a way, take them back by changing the rules would be a very bad way for national defence. Finally, I would like to say a few words on the special trust account "Energy Transition". I agree with the rapporteur that there are no problems in managing this account, since EUR 600 million, which has not been spent, have been returned to the general budget. I also think that this trust account bears its name badly, because it is not the alpha and omega of the energy transition. That being said, you will admit, the moment is wrong: deciding that 600 million euros will not go, in a visible way at least, to the "energy transition" while, outside this Chamber, a movement of sling or at least anger on the part of many French, is quite clumsy. Things may fall wrong, but sometimes we need to know how to correct them politically. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You wanted to make this PLFR a sort of "super pre-order," while often PLFRs were used to correct errors, which was not so bad given the speed with which the PLF had to be stopped. You could have used this PLFR to correct the mistakes that had been made on energy taxation. In particular, the tensions that the country is experiencing could have led you to freeze the carbon tax trajectory, as we encouraged you to do, and to adopt a less brutal trajectory for the coming years. That was not your choice, and I regret it. But perhaps we will have this debate at the second reading of the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u9	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u10	In this crowded place, where few of us are present, I will now ask this very simple question: when will you listen to the cry of the people? The people's cry resonated against the labour law, it resounded again against the new railway pact, and it resonates daily in the homes for the elderly – EHPAD – in hospitals, and wherever your austerity policies are applied. Indeed, the cry of the people resonates wherever you pursue an unjust and ineffective policy. Every time one of your laws is passed, you push a "wow! It's a relief, confusing passage into force with approval of your policy. It is to be believed that you do not hear the shouts of anger that rise daily throughout France. Just take public transport or chat in a café to understand it: people no longer support the unjust and ineffective policy that you implement. Not only do they not support it, but it is often the cause of much suffering and, it must be said, of many suicides in public enterprises. Fifty suicides occurred at the SNCF last year! You shut your ears, a little like the one who, under the Old Regime, spent his leisure time repairing watches as the Revolution went up. Today, the Cree people are dressed in yellow and, in a new way, they are opposed to your budget. However, by referring to the history of France, you will see that few popular movements have risen against a budget voted by the Assembly. And whenever the people objected to unfair taxes, ever-increasing benefits, indecent privileges, the mobilizations were the strongest and sometimes even revolutionary. Minister – and through you, I am addressing the Government and Mr Macron – it would be time for you to hear this cry and to respond to it other than by provocations, demeaning measures, contempt, repression and division. In 2018, the budget was unfair, giving the advantage to the privileges, with the removal of the ISF and the introduction of the flat tax, which this year complements the quasi-deletion of the exit tax. He attacked purchasing power with the increase in the generalised social contribution – CSG – and the removal of the tax credit for the energy transition on window insulation. It was also terribly anti-ecological, with the removal of nearly 2400 full-time equivalents – FTEs – at the Ministry of Ecology over the two years 2018 and 2019. Above all, as has just been said, he has pretended to transcribe an ecological policy which is in fact an unfair taxation of the French. No, it is not normal that, out of the €4 billion carbon tax, only €1 billion goes to ecology and that the rest is used to compensate for the gifts that were the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – and the tax credit for competitiveness and employment – CICE! Worse, with the PLFR, you are aggravating these unfair policies by providing for budget cuts of 2.7 billion euros and transfers to local and regional authorities amputated by an additional 200 million euros compared to what had been announced in the PLF 2018, even though the French suffer from the subcontracting of austerity to local and regional authorities organised for years. With this PLFR, you grant an extension of EUR 453 million to finance the debt and another EUR 738 million for the revenue levy for the European Union. You're not giving us any explanation. But why should we give this money to the European Union, rather than putting it at the service of the French, to promote their purchasing power and strengthen public services? You amputate EUR 492 million for the "Work and employment" mission, removing EUR 300 million from the aided contracts. Do you realize that the abolition of assisted contracts is for a lot in the troubles that take place in many departments, I am thinking in particular of La Réunion, constituency of my friend Jean-Hugues Ratenon? Let us continue the catastrophic record of this PLFR. This PLFR is also 130 million less for the recruitment bonus in small and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs – and 200 million less for the mission "Sustainable ecology, development and mobility" – 200 million less for ecology and sustainable development! I would remind all those who, on the benches of the House, allow themselves to give ecological lessons to the "yellow vests" who protest because they can't close their end of the month! The PLFR still plans to remove EUR 200 million from the mission to "Research and higher education". Yet, in recent years, several movements of researchers have called for the rescue of public research. Of course, they were speaking not to you but to the previous majorities. However, you have made the situation even worse. You also decide to drastically reduce the allowable employment ceilings, with a reduction of 10800 full-time equivalents. Thus, there has been a decrease of 3,266 jobs in national education. This arithmetical evidence is to be compared with Mr Blanquer's speeches: again this year there are job losses in education. But there are also 3327 jobs abolished in the army, 1472 in the Ministry of Public Accounts and 477 in the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. This is the record of this PLFR which only worsens the systematic weakening of the state and the breakdown of the social state that you have been working on for a year and a half. I would like to say today to the "yellow vests" and to all those, overwhelmingly majority, who contest your policy, what emergency measures France is proposing. For we want another PLFR, which corresponds to the situation in our country. We know that this is not impossible because last year, in the middle of the budget debate, you presented a PLFR for the 3% tax on dividends which you thought it was urgent to repay to those who already have so much. We propose, against fiscal injustice and gifts to privileges, that the ISF be restored and the flat tax repealed. These measures would immediately bring our country 5 billion euros. We are also concerned about the question of purchasing power, which a study by INSEE has just confirmed what we have been moving forward for years and that you are denying – which in turn suggests that you are unaware of the reality of our country – that the purchasing power of the French has been declining for ten years under successive austerity policies. Its decline has accelerated even for a year and a half, while the purchasing power of the richest 1% of French people is going up again. That is why we are calling for an increase in the SMIC and the social minimums that are at least at the level of inflation and – this is our programme – to reach the level of the poverty line for the social minimums. We also request that the CSG increase be cancelled. With regard to ecology, which gives rise to so many lessons on your part, we propose that you use ecological taxation for ecological investments instead of paying the state budget the 4 billion taxes on fuels. Even better, we ask you to suspend these carbon taxes and immediately replace them with a tax on aviation kerosene, which would bring the state 3 billion euros. We offer you a tax on the oil activities of large oil companies like Total. We propose to renationalize motorways. Be aware that this year, only to finance the rent of motorways, motorway tolls will have been increased twice, one in January and the other at present! It is unbearable for the French to have to pay the motorways, not to maintain them better, but with the sole aim of favouring the capitalist rent of the big companies, which share not only the concession of the motorways but also the motorway works. Finally, we ask you to cancel the EUR 40 billion of the CICE. This is just one example, here is what we propose you to do this year: invest 30 billion in ecology, through the deployment of renewable energies, the establishment of the public energy pole, the commitment to the dismantling of nuclear power plants, a new policy of transition of the agricultural model, with subsidies for conversions to bio in order to reach 20% of organic surfaces next year, and the thermal insulation of 700000 dwellings per year. To this 30 billion, you can add 10 for the social emergency: university renovation; construction of public housing, in order to begin to solve the housing crisis that you have increased with the law on housing, development and digitalisation, known as "ELAN"; opening of 70000 crèches; implementation of a major disability plan; opening of 10,000 places in retirement homes. I recommend reading this counter-budget, in which you will find all these detailed figures. This 40 billion uncompensated business aid, which is unfortunately part of the dividends rather than part of the investment, could benefit from a genuine environmental policy, from a genuine social policy. This would, of course, favour the activity of companies, which need financial gifts less than to fill in their order books. The State can, precisely through the implementation of ecological and social solutions, feed these order books. We also offer you – but perhaps we dream – a great plan for the development of rail freight, which has been broken as you open the SNCF to competition, in favour of the all-truck solution, which is absolutely catastrophic from an ecological point of view. You're asking me how to finance it? At the borders of France, introduce a kilometric tax which will depend on the movement of heavy goods vehicles and will reduce the safe and ecological gabegie of truck transport. These are the emergency solutions that France is proposing; These are the urgent solutions that we bring to the attention and listening of our fellow citizens, especially those who have been mobilizing for weeks, whose number you are reducing, and who are increasingly convinced of the need to change policy. Why, after all, not to hear these solutions from the very mouth of those who today manifest themselves? The Elysée would be well inspired to receive a delegation of yellow vests, as we would in the Assembly. In many departments, complaints books are beginning to be written – a term that reminds us of the glorious times of our history. We, the representatives of the people, should insist that representatives of the yellow vests come to explain to us their solutions and what they are contesting in the current policy, since we are in the midst of a budgetary debate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne also applauds]] You have now reached an impasse, and I do not believe that repression and political postures will do much to that end. I believe, minister, that you would be well inspired to have confidence in the people of France. The solution is always the people! Listen to the cry of the people! And why, for once, would we not be making a bill for a citizens' amending finance bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u11	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u12	Mr Coquerel, I listened to you: unfortunately, you did not explain how you financed all of your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u13	You didn't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u14	No, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u15	He explained it: restore the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u16	Even if you re-establish the ISF, which would raise roughly 3 billion euros in the first year – much less the following years since you would send a very negative sign to investors and people,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u17	Investors? You forget the good citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u18	... hence the choice that we have widely presented before you – you would not be able to finance all the plans, very numerous, that you would put in place, as if France lived in a closed world where the economy would only turn on itself. This is where the disaster, which makes it difficult to discuss together: it is an aspect that you do not present, unless you consider, point that President Mélenchon points out from time to time, that we must get out of the European rules in their entirety. I say this all the more easily because in 2012, when I was a Member of Parliament – you yourself were not yet a Member of Parliament – I had voted in this House against the Treaty providing for a number of regulations, including budgetary ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u19	Why didn't you keep on doing this?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u20	You see, there are two points on which we strongly disagree. The first is that the treaties, even if you would denounce them that would have gone outside the will of the people, were first and foremost wanted by the people, particularly in Maastricht. The Maastricht Treaty, Mr Mélenchon remembers because it was already in the public debate, was adopted by the majority of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u21	But not in 2005: it was a slap!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u22	The 2005 Treaty, for your part, was already largely enshrined in the rule of the independent European Central Bank, in the percentage of authorized deficits already fixed, and above all in structural adjustment. We often talk here about the nominal deficit, which is obviously important, but what is the subject of a very deep European political discussion is the structural adjustment proposed by the Commission. This subject is a little distant, I must say, from the debates that we have in public opinion and here. On the other hand, it is quite surprising, Mr Coquerel, that you are no longer citing the example of Italy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u23	Because I only had fifteen minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u24	In fifteen minutes, we can talk about Italy! Every man should speak of Italy, even for a few seconds, so beautiful is this country and deserves to be the motherland of each and every Frenchman! The truth, Mr Coquerel, is that in fifteen minutes you were unable to mention the Italian example when you spoke about it during the debate on the finance bill. That's amazing! In the meantime, you have noticed that even Mr Salvini and Mr Conte were discussing with the European Commission, perhaps to find a compromise – we will see it in a few days. Yet this is one of the examples you cited! Nor can I hear you citing the Greek example. In fifteen minutes, I have not heard of the Greek example which, let us admit, after a beautiful adventure that no doubt resembled your romantic political vision, ended for the Greek people with enormous sacrifices!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u25	Is Greece romantic? With an unemployment rate of 40%?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u26	May I speak, Congressman?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u27	Let's hear the minister! We listened to you, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u28	In these circumstances, there is no dialogue anymore: I am satisfied, you are voting and you will say that I despise you! As your group defends two motions, I imagine you have an interest in the political debate! You do not mention the Italian and Greek examples. This is a shame, because the first problem is that you do not explain how you finance your program: you assume that debt is no big deal. After Schmidt's famous theorem, of which Mr Mélenchon said he was quite questionable, there could be Mr Coquerel's theorem: today's deficit is the debt of tomorrow, then taxes and the rigor of the day. That's what will happen, Mr. Coquerel, if we follow your adventure policy! Do you think for a moment that a government, whatever it may be, whatever its drought of heart or its ideological will, might not put in place these solutions that you are proposing simply because it does not want them or because it wants to cause some part of society to suffer? Of course not! The world you offer us would be deadly for the French economy...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u29	It's true that the French economy is fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u30	Mr Coquerel, you can explain things as you wish. There is obviously a lot of poverty and social difficulties in the country, otherwise we would not be there, and things would probably have followed the course of politics as it has been conducted over the last fifteen or twenty years. However, admit that, in the French economy, a number of public policies put in place save some of our fellow citizens from poverty, and that social democracy has been able to meet certain imperatives. All the economic solutions that you have proposed have ended in greater difficulties for the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u31	You've been following the same policy for 30 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u32	As for the rich, even if they can be deplored, they have the opportunity to vote with their feet: they leave. Those who will suffer the economic policy that you propose, made both of ideology and beautiful dreams, it must be admitted,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u33	It's not on the level!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u34	Yes, sir. This causes economic disasters!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u35	All your numbers have been bad since 2018!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u36	You see, Mr Coquerel, I took you seriously: I could have told you that it was not extremely serious to debate this issue in a PLFR, which you know concerns only a few budget items that do not change...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u37	Last year, there were 3% dividends!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let me answer you! We will have a debate this evening, after dinner, on the Social Security Financing Bill, which concerns some of the issues that you are talking about, and then at the second reading of the Finance Bill. Objectively, the Government and the majority listen and discuss with the opposition, but I regret that you have not done the exercise of trying to consistently encrypt all the beautiful dreams you propose to us. Unfortunately, after beautiful dreams often comes the nightmare of waking up!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u39	We come to the explanations of vote on this motion of rejection. Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u40	The objective of an amending finance law is to adjust the balance of the original finance law, in no case to present a PLF bis. Sometimes, because of the urgency of spending, but also because of insufficient consideration of budgetary uncertainties, the use of advance orders had increased in the past. In breach of these practices, the very light format of the 2018 PLFR that we are considering today will, for the first time in more than thirty years, lead the Government not to proceed with the opening and cancellation of appropriations by decree in advance. Thus, for the first time since the entry into force of the LOLF, the full openings and cancellations of the general budget will have been fully decided by Parliament, either in the context of the finance bill or in the context of the amending finance bill. This is a major step forward for our institution in its central role of authorizing and controlling expenditure. We owe this end-of-management PLFR format to the Government's re-establishment of the principle of fiscal sincerity: the government's manageable spending targets are met and even below the target of the original finance law, while the government's deficit is improving. Mr Coquerel, as usual, I hear you making opposition speeches, always the same, without substance because I am unable to propose anything that holds the road, and without consistent funding, as the minister pointed out. Worse, you are inconsistent in your amendments from week to week. As regards, for example, the carbon tax, you are now proposing that we suspend it, while you were defending it, that you even wanted to increase it not so long ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u41	That's not true! Stop lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u42	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u43	You have a short memory!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u44	You don't even know what you're reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u45	Listen to yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u46	I hear you talking about emergency measures. A country does not change in urgency but in the consistency of a coherent action. You mix everything, you deceive the French and French by surfing their anger, blowing on the embers. The responsibility of the elected representatives is great: we assume it; you, you unsubstantiated, and you abuse it! To all this, I reply that we are proud of this flash PLFR, consistent with our action from the beginning. We leave you to your discourses identical to each law, which ultimately makes them inaudible and inaudible. If there's someone in a dead end today, it's your group, because it never offers anything new!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u47	We have to go out on the weekend!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u48	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We can only reject your motion: the La République en marche group will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u49	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u50	The Socialist and related group – in this case Boris Vallaud and I – will vote in favour of this motion of rejection, not for technical reasons but for the reasons put forward by our colleague Coquerel, who are political. We stress the need, not to correct your budget but to completely flatten the fiscal policies that have been in place for the past two years. I would remind you very quickly: the exemption of the ISF for 3.2 billion euros, the flat tax for 1.8 billion euros, the need to compensate the municipalities for the abolition of the housing tax, the doubling of the CICE. All these measures must be corrected in the budget. First, you have put in place savings measures, such as the elimination of assisted jobs and the reduction of LPOAs. Then you created new revenues: CSG increases for our retirees, ecological taxes, which weigh on the most modest and are now unbearable. What we want is to put this tax down. You blame my colleague for not indicating the means. He proposed, however, to put an end to ISF's exemption, which costs $3.2 billion. With that $3.2 billion, we could do a lot of things. We could invest in the rehabilitation of housing, for the benefit of our neighbourhood economy and the purchasing power of the inhabitants of these housing units. The energy cheque could be matched with a territorial component, for people living in territories that are not fortunate enough to have public transportation. We could improve the purchasing power of our pensioners: 3.2 billion euros for each of our 3.2 million pensioners, almost a thirteenth month for the most modest pensioners. [[Boris Vallaud applauds]] You realize what we could do with that $3.2 billion! Purchasing power could be restored or reoriented to ecological transition support measures to ensure that workers, the most modest pensioners, are involved in this ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u51	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u52	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's hopeless, Minister! How can you say that we do not encrypt when our colleague from La France insoumise has just done exactly the opposite? If you doubt it, you can refer to the counter-budget that we tabled at the beginning of the budget debate – I also tell our colleague who reads papers with little talent against us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u53	It is true that we do not have your experience!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u54	How elegant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u55	You were also not very tolerant in saying that our remarks were absurd in principle! Our colleague has just made two very clear and encrypted proposals. What kind of Parliament are we if, when we discuss the finance bill when there is such an emotion in the country, we do not take it into account? The island of La Réunion is in an insurrectional situation today, but we will not discuss it in the finance bill. The whole country is busy from dam to dam, but we're not talking about it! We're making you an encrypted proposal. Since you would miss 3 billion if you remove the fuel surcharge, we propose that you re-establish the solidarity tax on wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u56	You're the wrong text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u57	You got the wrong card!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u58	Now is the time for everyone to put their hands in the pocket! That and the flat tax, it's exactly the same amount as what you're going to take on fuel surcharges. In other words, we are taking it in the pocket of those who need it the most to give to those who need it the least and who, in addition, did not ask for it! As for the plan that Mr. Coquerel presented, the sum has been proposed to you. This year, you're putting $40 billion in the CICE maneuver. That 40 billion would have to be put back into production. The CICE should therefore be repealed. He doesn't make any sense. This amounts to collectivizing – I said "collectivizing" – the labour force to the tune of 6% of the wages in each company. It is a form of absurd collectivism, which consists of making part of what should be paid for by people who, then, do not place a euro in real production. They put everything else, in dividends and therefore in speculation. These figures of sharing wealth, of surplus value, can be found everywhere, between dividend and accumulated wealth. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So these are two simple measures. If we want to hear what is being said in the country, we have to cancel the fuel surcharge. What do you want at the end? Whether people get tired of rage as they approach Christmas and eventually give up, or are they heard? That's what you have to answer, minister. This is a democracy that is heard by the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u59	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u60	Minister, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left notes that you continue to sink into your certainties. You want to do people good against their will, but you're leading an unfair policy. Under the guise of ecological transition, you tax the French to finally finance the unjust measures that you have taken in favor of the richest. The ISF, we must restore it and make it a specific tax in view of our needs, in order to finance this famous ecological transition that we care about as much as you do. We would then have the opportunity to launch a major plan for energy renewal, a major plan for mobility, to allocate these revenues to concrete actions, perceived by our fellow citizens. Polls are worth what they are worth, but almost 80% of French people condemn your policy; 80% of French people point to injustice. I, who live in rural areas, know that this feeling of relegation expressed by the forgotten French of the Republic is not new. You say you have a real project for these territories, but you are proposing punitive taxation, measuring measures, without really aggregating a set of measures that would respond to the call made today by all those who have decided to go down the street to tell you that your policy is particularly unfair. Other examples could be given, but for your part, suspend the increase in taxes scheduled for January 1st. Send a sign!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u61	It is a mistake for the French to say that. It won't solve anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u62	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u63	This is the second time I have spoken in this forum about this budget adjustment text for 2018, which cancels unused appropriations – which is surprising in view of the state of our public services – or new appropriations. Our opinion on these adjustments has not changed; What has changed is the social context. I think our fellow citizens, yellow vests or those who support them, will be happy to know the amount of planing carried out on this budget and on which missions. I would like to return in a few words to the very rocky conditions that led to the examination of this text in committee, to the conditions – which have been noted on all the benches of this House – which are truly contemptuous of Parliament, leaving us twenty-four hours to decorate a 134-page text and to table amendments that enrich the democratic debate, while the discussion of the finance bill in session continued! Of two things one: this absurd haste is either a total amateurism or a deliberate intention to stifle our proposals and the oppositions – but cumulation is not to be excluded. However, this PLFR is interesting to analyse. It is not, as we are trying to make it seem, a simple "technical exercise" or at least behind the technical exercise manifests itself a logic that is not to surprise us: ever more shots of planing, always less money for essential missions. In total, it is 2.7 billion euros that are thus subtracted, with 60 million to justice, 200 million to higher education, 200 million to local authorities, 12 million to the politics of the city, but also to ecology, I will go back in detail. If there are 2.1 billion more, it is for debt or for Europe. This amending budget is of course evidence of the ever-changing desire to control public expenditure, i.e. to reduce it, an imperative logic that inspires all your budgetary choices. These choices are inefficient, not only in economic terms, judging by the growth in dullness, stagnating unemployment and growing popular exasperation, but also ecologically. This is reflected in the initial appropriations allocated to the environment. The observation is implacable: despite your gestures, this budget is reduced by almost 694 million, of course dedicated to a special account for the energy transition, but when you are asked to commit yourself to reallocating this amount to the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", you say that it is impossible. In fact, this mission is itself planed to the tune of 200 million. Go and make the French understand how it is that we plan the mission "Ecology" at the same time as we increase the tax on fuels!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u64	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u65	Our fellow citizens need to know that this is as much less for the energy transition, for the necessary adaptation of our production and consumption model, at a time when all the visionaries are warning us about the current warming and its dramatic consequences. When will you understand that in the face of the climate emergency, the bifurcation of our economic model is the real green rule that must guide our public policies? But to this green rule, you prefer the gold rule of 3%,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u66	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u67	... this crazy compass, which continues to dictate your budgetary choices. Thus, Mr Darmanin, you have tried to justify this reduction in the funds allocated to the energy transition by the need to "finance the army or the interests of the debt", or to strengthen our contribution to the European budget. Everything is said: in short, if the climate were a bank, it would already be saved!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u68	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u69	The short-term interest of the financial powers is preferred to the defence of the general human interest; We prefer to repay the banks' debt – 460 million extra credits – rather than that of the planet. It is not the diversion of creating a High Council on Climate that will reassure us. Clemenceau, to whom we have just paid tribute, was already getting rid of such rude manoeuvres: "When you want to bury a problem, you create a commission," he said. The tartufery of imposing so-called ecological taxes on the working and middle classes has lasted long enough. By practicing punitive ecology, you will end up hating it, especially as it is increasingly proven that the carbon tax that you put in place for the 2019 budget will compensate the famous CICE, gift made for nothing to companies. The French are not fooled. Everywhere popular discontent is heard without the need to blow over the embers. Today, on tolls and roundabouts, on the outskirts of medium-sized towns and countryside, everywhere, citizens want to assert their rights and manifest this aspiration for dignity and sovereignty. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is precisely this irruption of the word of the people that must cause us to reconsider the budgetary choices and arbitrations of this amending finance bill. That is why, in our view, this referral to the committee today makes full sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u70	We come to the explanations of vote. Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u71	The parliamentary debate has this wonderful that it allows the expression of the most varied ideas but, also, to correct the oriented readings that attempt – without success, I must say – to sow confusion by surfing on a timely occasion. I would therefore like to take this rostrum to correct a misreading and misreading and to point out that a amending finance bill allows the provisions of the original Finance Act to be amended in the course of the year, in particular with regard to the spending ceilings of the State budgets and the general data on the balance of the budget. By using this method, we are therefore continuing our exercise of budgetary sincerity. As there is no question, in this PLFR, of catching up on appropriations or of new tax provisions, asking for their rejection or referral is a political act...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u72	That's why we're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u73	...to take advantage of the suffering expressed by some of our fellow citizens to denounce an alleged impasse and injustices related to the measures taken in the finance bill. But our fellow citizens are not fooled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u74	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u75	They do the part, they fully understand that this amending finance bill is part of an adjustment logic aimed at rebalancing the government's accounts. Let us remember that this text will have no impact on the energy transition policy. So this is not a repeat of the PLF: do you mind, ladies and gentlemen, the finance law has been designed and matured for the benefit of each of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u76	Why don't you tell them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u77	Yes, the PLF, like this PLFR, is in the interests of the French! Yes, he's at the service of the weakest. We are going to vote on the provisions, and we are fully aware of the difficulties that our fellow citizens may face, especially since many of us have been confronted with the same difficulties. You are quoting, for example, the 2018 capital tax reform, but, contrary to what you say, it is not a gift to the rich: it is a gift to our country for its transformation, for employment to benefit from a new dynamic, to strengthen productive investment, to restart the machine!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u78	And for what results!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u79	Not only do we take account of the anger of the French but, above all, we understand it, as all the measures of the PLF attest. Everyone will be able to check! I ask you this question, ladies and gentlemen: if the ISF and the taxation of capital were to remedy the profound evil that our country is suffering, why would we be at this point today?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u80	It's true: why not make the system even more unfair, since it was already unfair?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The La République en marche group will therefore not vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u82	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u83	Unsurprisingly, the Socialist and Related Group will vote on this motion to refer the matter back to committee, although we have some differences with our colleague Rubin with regard to this business support scheme, which is the CICE: we have always been on the sidelines of companies to promote their productivity. We have sometimes been criticized for the lack of matching on the employment front, but the employment premium has been one and we must support exports anyway. On the other hand, we regret the doubling of the expenditure involved in transforming it into a reduction in costs. It would have been possible to avoid it by shifting the reduction of contributions by one year, which would have meant that everything would not have been paid in 2019, in particular, a bill of 40 billion. I am surprised by the discovery, in this budget, of a cancellation of credits of 50 million for the energy check while the workers, the most modest pensioners, the rural world are in the street to demand more purchasing power in order, precisely, to be able to bear the burden of the ecological transition. It might be time, precisely, to review in committee the issues raised by this cancellation, since the energy check is a tool for the redistribution of purchasing power. In particular, it is necessary to revise its eligibility conditions, whereas today it is aimed at French citizens whose reference tax income is less than 7500 euros, which corresponds to the people who receive the social minimums. The energy check is of course necessary for those who live in the greatest precariousness, but it should also benefit the most modest workers, those who have no choice but to take their car to work. I understand that, among the measures announced, an increase in the threshold is foreseen, but it should also be increased in view of the dizzying increase in energy prices. On a territorial level, a twofold reality must be taken into account: on the one hand, the contrast between the rural and urban worlds, the former not benefiting from public transport, the use of the car being forced; On the other hand – you should be sensitive, minister – the contrast between the north and the south in terms of heating, where bills are still much higher in the north. Perhaps we should also think about that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u84	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u85	I thank my colleague from the Republic on the move because she has made a number of arguments, even if we are not convinced. Let me remind you that last year's Finance Amendment Bill came back on the dividend tax after the Constitutional Council declared it illegal. 10 billion have been repaid to the richest! We may disagree, but that was included in the amending budget. Adjustments, and even more – 10 billion, that is no longer the case! – are therefore possible if the situation requires it. In this case, this is the case. The movement to challenge your unjust and ineffective policy is growing in our country. Just look at the INSEE figures since the beginning of the year, Mr Darmanin, which show how far you are from having a fair economic record – purchasing, popular consumption, unemployment, etc. – except for dividends that, in response to Ms Hai about ISF and flat tax gifts, increased by 26% in the first half of 2018, which is twice as much as the global average. I repeat, but I never have an answer! Your policy is indeed effective for those with whom you want to be. Problem: runoff sucks, as you should recognize with us. You should therefore also consider correcting your policy, if only in accordance with the requirements of the French. As I said, the re-establishment of the ISF could compensate, at a minimum, for a moratorium on the carbon tax so that it is fairer. Another solution that I have already had the opportunity to mention: the taxation of aircraft kerosene would bring in EUR 3 billion, the equivalent of the share of the carbon tax that you do not affect to the ecological transition. You can see that there are proposals! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, I regret that no one has answered me, even in principle, with regard to the very serious proposal that I have made. Let us, the National Assembly, receive a delegation of "yellow vests" to hear their demands. We would thus rise to the height of popular sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u86	Great idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u87	Receive them in your parliamentary permanence!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u88	The La France insoumée group will, of course, vote in favour of the motion it has put forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u89	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u90	We will vote on this motion for referral to committee for several reasons. First of all, I recall the conditions for examining this PLFR at first reading, which had been very criticized on many benches: I believe that the discussion in committee had lasted forty-five minutes... This may not be the point, but it is a matter of concern. Then the great anger that is emerging in our country. It is the result of certain budgetary choices for 2018 and you say you understand it: it is a laudable intellectual effort but the political effort is not at the rendezvous. You could already change the path planned by the PLF for 2018, including by taking exceptional decisions in view of this exceptional situation itself. For example, you could include the fact that the salaries of the CAC 40 bosses increased by 14% in 2017 and that you should not allow an additional fiscal year to pass without going to get that money and a number of resources that you obviously decided not to do when they would be very useful for public budgets. Finally, it is clear that the return to the general budget of 600 million for the ecological transition – without our knowledge of its precise allocation – raises a number of problems. However, this issue is essential and we cannot accept such a decision. The committee must once again deliberate on these issues and take a number of orientations. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I concede that it is difficult at this stage to correct such a bad budget, but we still have room for manoeuvre. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u91	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u92	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u93	In the general debate, Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u94	In terms of form, this amending finance bill is unacceptable. In twenty-six years, Mr.Minister of Public Action and Accounts, I have never had such a short time to examine a finance bill, even if it was a correction. We only had twenty-one hours between the filing of the PLFR by computer and the tabling of amendments for the consideration of the text in the Finance Committee, while we were examining the non-attached articles of the 2019 Finance Bill, which has been busy us all afternoon and part of the night.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u95	What a disrespect!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u96	Secondly, we had less than 24 hours between the examination of the text in the Committee on Finance and the deadline for tabling amendments for the public sitting on Monday 12 November. The work of the parliamentarian is to be able to discuss the substance seriously and to improve the texts on which he is working. The review of non-budgetary items under the FLP showed that we were not useless in this area – and you yourself acknowledged it, Minister – because we have raised many problems that the Government and its services have not identified. I would also like to recall that our colleague Laurent Saint-Martin, who, to my knowledge, belongs to the majority, proposed in July, during the examination of the constitutional bill, that the Constitution should lay down a period of forty days between the tabling of a bill and its consideration. We are far from it, far away! I would add that it was not you that we heard in committee, Mr.Minister of Action and Public Accounts – while the budget is undoubtedly part of your portfolio – but your Secretary of State, who was not the author of the text. This is a disrespectful attitude towards Parliament, and therefore towards our fellow citizens, which we represent. Minister, I should like to remind you that the right of amendment is enshrined in the first paragraph of Article 44 of our Constitution. However, the tighter deadlines imposed on us for tabling amendments in committee and then in public sittings have not allowed Parliament to exercise this fundamental right, which, I repeat, is of constitutional value. By doing so, you circumvent the Constitution and, in a way, you express some contempt for national representation. Our group is ready to refer to the Constitutional Council, together with the other groups that wish to do so, for a ruling on the constitutionality of such deadlines. On the fund, this amending finance bill presents at least three serious problems. The first is that it cancels almost 330 million euros from defence equipment appropriations to finance France's external military operations – OPEX – to the tune of 402 million euros, contrary to what had been included in Article 4 of the Military Programming Act, which provided for the provision of this funding through the redeployment of inter-ministerial appropriations. In doing so, Minister, you are reducing our army's ability to purchase equipment. I'm not saying it, but your impact assessment – we've been told that it won't shift any orders, but it's not what's written in the impact statement. Your decision will also lead to a reduction in investment expenditures, while France's policy requires that they be increased – and there has been an immense majority in the National Assembly to approve this direction. You therefore go back to the commitments of the President of the Republic, who had promised a constantly increasing budget, since these amounts represent 20 to 25 per cent of the increase that was planned; You will also come back to the commitments made before Parliament under the military programming law, since the defence budget did not have to take full responsibility for the costs of the OPEXs until 2020. The risk is great that this precedent will be used again in 2019, since everyone knows that what we have included in the 2019 Finance Act is insufficient to meet these expenses. The second problem is of a political nature and concerns the energy transition trust account. You are reassigning 600 million euros to the general state budget in a context of rising fuel prices. All your technical arguments weigh nothing: to paraphrase a famous formula, you are technically right, but politically wrong. You are wrong, because what you blame those who have raised the problem of the socially unbearable increase in the price of energy is that only a small part of this increase in taxation is affected by the energy transition. This is quite a minority, since in two years you have increased taxes by about 8 billion, while the ecological budget has increased by only 1 billion euros. In the Libertés et Territoires Group, we believe that the revenues from the taxation of fossil fuels, of the order of EUR 15 billion by 2022, should be fully used to support the energy transition in the territories, to support households, especially the most modest ones, and to make this transition socially sustainable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u97	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u98	No, I recalled the figures: 8 billion revenue and 1 billion expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u99	What about the drop in the housing tax?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u100	This has nothing to do with the energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, only Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u102	The third problem with this PLFR, ladies and gentlemen, is that you are claiming to reduce the deficit faster than expected. But it is not necessary to be a major expert in public finances to discover that this fall in the state deficit comes from exceptional budgetary revenues, largely due to the transfer by the State of 2.35% of the capital of the Safran company which brought 1,24 billion euros into the caisses. Withdraw these exceptional results and you will realize that the structural deficit of the state does not recede. And for good reason! The reforms undertaken by the Government are inconsistent, as we were able to recall during the review of the PLF for 2019, which does not allow for a reduction of the structural deficit that is truly long-term. In these circumstances, the Libertés et Territoires Group considers that this amending finance bill for 2018 is insufficient and will vote against the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u103	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u104	The majority who sit on these benches are well in tune with reality, contrary to what some would like to make believe, and they are well aware of the concerns and angers that are being expressed today. The distress of some must be heard...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u105	It must above all be heard!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u106	... and everything must be done to respond and mitigate it, rather than to feed it for political purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u107	And you're the one who says that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u108	It is also up to us to restore confidence to the French, showing that our words and statements really translate into reality and their daily lives. With a cautious humility, calmness and determination, I would like to recall the coherence and ambition of our policy, of which this amending finance bill for 2018 is both an instrument and a fair illustration. Our policy, which found its first numerical expression in the 2018 budget, and whose sincerity this PLFR confirms, aims to be part of the daily lives of the French. This concern was at the heart of the commitment of candidate Emmanuel Macron and it is at the heart of the reforms carried out over the past year. Far from the positions which, for a long time, have claimed to relieve the daily lives of the French with public money or by maintaining them in past habits, we believe that only profound and structural reforms will make a lasting improvement in the lives of our fellow citizens, in all fields. The first reform is that of the dynamics of employment: employment must pay better, thanks to reduced taxation and the renewed growth of enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u109	It's the opposite of what you're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u110	French workers want to be autonomous and not dependent on the state in their daily lives. We understand them and create the conditions for responding to this demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u111	What about social security? What about free and compulsory school?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u112	What about the health of the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u113	What about the public hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u114	The second project is that of education: we want to better support children in the most disadvantaged areas, because we want to deal with the issue of inequalities at the root.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u115	Customs officers to protect us? A police at the service of the population?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u116	Finally, through an administration that reinvents itself and is more conciliatory, we want to support citizens in their administrative efforts to alleviate their burden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u117	A successful justice? An armed army?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u118	A certainty animates us: the improvement of the daily life of the French can only be achieved through a modernised, dynamic and positive economy, that is to say, at the service of the general interest and not at the service of a few. The tax reform, voted last year, of the gradual reduction of corporate tax, the transformation of the solidarity tax on capital into a tax on real estate – IFl – and the creation of the flat tax only aims at this: to make France no longer a country of capital flight, but of attractiveness and investment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u119	We have the world record for profits!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u120	... these investments we want to respect our social, environmental and ethical values.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u121	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u122	There should be no room, neither in France nor in Europe, for those who do not respect these rules, conditions for real common progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u123	Get us out of here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u124	The investments that our policy will make possible are as many jobs for the French, as we are accompanying by unprecedented means in vocational training and skills, to the tune of 15 billion euros. These reforms and means are a reality that is reflected not only in the budget documents we are examining, but also on the ground. I was on Friday night in the Allier, at the inauguration of the premises of a very beautiful company, JCE Biotechnology. The mayor of Vichy announced, in the course of 2019, the creation of more than 600 jobs in the industry for the only Vichyssian basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u125	Then it's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u126	You're gonna be jealous, Mr. Dufrègne!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u127	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u128	Was he invited, at least?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u129	Besides, I'm a little for something...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u130	These reforms are not only necessary but also in line with the need to gradually improve our public balance. While the government's debt has reached a historic level and we spend more than half of the income tax revenue on paying it back each year, some would like to try us here again in austerity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u131	Yes, the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u132	In order to reduce this massive debt that forces the state in its public policies, let us stop making it appear that the decline in the state's lifestyle is the panacea. Exemplarity and probity are paramount, and they have been the subject of the very first law of the legislature, but they remain largely insufficient in terms of the amounts at stake. The measures already announced, as well as those to be taken under the Public Action 2022 programme, will help to initiate a thorough modernisation of public action and improve the public services of everyday life.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u133	You've increased the debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u134	We want to pursue a policy that unites around a common destiny, that of our country, and not disunity. At a time of increasing uncertainty, Brexit, the successful synthesis of extremes in Italy, a Brazil where reaction prevails, growing trade tensions, the risks to the European Union and our country are immense. Some may accuse us of trying to scare the French, but it is our responsibility to name the dangers and do everything we can to protect ourselves from them. If opposing and dividing is done at very little cost, building and carrying out a project for the benefit of all is undoubtedly the most difficult task. This majority will therefore not respond to the call of the demagogues, those sirens who would like the French boat to break on the rocks of the division. We are following another path to reconnect with solidarity and fairness in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u135	What a shame to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u136	The French tell us today, through the voice of the "yellow vests", that this is not enough, and we have heard them. Yes, compulsory levies are too large in France and we are working to reform public spending to try to provide answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u137	That's not what they tell us! On the contrary, they want to restore the tax on wealth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u138	Let's remember a few facts. The gradual abolition of the housing tax is not only intended to support purchasing power; It is also intended to put an end to an unfair tax, the amount of which varied from place to place for no objective reason. In my territory, the average economy, over the long term, will be 550 euros per year. The abolition of unemployment and sickness contributions, in a department such as Allier where the average income is 21678 euros gross per year, represents an average purchasing power gain of 314 euros per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u139	You have to be able to pay for the medicine!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u140	To counter the scissor effect that has been so highlighted in recent days – while jobs are concentrated in city centres, the cost of real estate pushes many French people to settle in the periphery or in the countryside – we propose structural responses. For example, the "City-City Action" programme, which is manoeuvring local authorities, aims at renovating the centres of medium-sized cities and offering attractive housing offers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u141	Nothing for small towns!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u142	Again, these are concrete advances, the realization of which takes time, but which are gradually being realized, thanks in particular to the sustained work carried out by local actors in partnership with the State services. In terms of solidarity, our choices are based on clear and accepted principles. That is true, we are asking pensioners for a contribution in the form of an increase in the CSG for some of them, but at the same time we are making an unprecedented effort towards the most fragile: an increase of 50 euros in the amount of the adult disabled allowance as of November, an increase of 100 euros in that of the minimum old age during the quinquennium, an increase in the activity premium to combat the phenomenon of the working poor. As the opposition struggles in its contradictions, finding nothing better to propose than a one-year extension of the retirement age to compensate for the 1% increase in the amount of aid, our solutions are clear and our policy follows a clear course. Finally, a few hours before the President of the Republic presented the next multiannual energy programme, I know that the French are aware of the need for the ecological transition. It is up to us to ensure that all can commit themselves to it. The ecological transition should not be chosen by some and experienced by others, otherwise it would only lead to new divisions. We must therefore rebalance efforts between businesses and households, and between households themselves. Faced with the blindness of certain governments, which persist in the status quo and turn their backs on the Paris agreement, France is moving forward and wishes to embark Europe with it. The climatic phenomena that affect our soil, both in our overseas territories and in the metropolis – as evidenced by the recent floods in Aude and the droughts of this summer – are all warning signals that we must respond to. In this respect, taxation is an efficient economic tool that is not limited to rising pump prices. It is an element of structural transformation of our economy, as this simple example shows: the rising cost of virgin plastic makes recycled plastic more competitive, thus creating a real circular economy. It is therefore our responsibility, as politicians, to explain the need to maintain the trajectory and to accompany everyone in this transition. That is the meaning of the action of the Government and its majority. Our majority does not claim to have the answer to all evils, but it wants to propose concrete and coherent solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To our fellow citizens, I would like to say on behalf of the Members of Parliament, The Republic on the move, that they have our listening and our consideration. The task to be accomplished is immense and the process of implementing sometimes long and tedious reforms. Let them be assured of our will to ensure that public money is spent effectively and precisely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u143	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u144	At the outset, I would like once again, as I did at first reading, to welcome the Government's efforts to alleviate this year's content of the amending finance bill. By ringing the bell of a parliamentary tradition of making the PLFR an opportunity to catch up with the vote on the draft finance bill, the Government has enabled it to return to its original vocation: to make the subtle balance between the provisions of the original finance law and the budget implementation forecasts of the State. I'm glad. [[Mr. Eric Coquerel applauds]] On the other hand, we can only regret the haste that has led the Government to force an already extremely tight agenda, which has prevented Parliament from properly carrying out its tasks at first reading. The right of amendment cannot be called into question, Minister! And in order to defend this fundamental right, the Republicans group intends to refer the matter to the Constitutional Council. However, while the text in the form of the text deserves some compliments, it is unfortunately different in terms of substance, i.e. the budgetary guidelines supported by the majority. I will not dwell on the cancellation of more than EUR 404 million of appropriations in the army budget, which gave the Chairman of the Finance Committee the opportunity to make a presentation on political archaeology, especially since my colleague François Cornut-Gentille will defend an amendment from our group designed to remove this unjust provision and contrary to the Government's commitments. I will focus on three topics: the structural deficit, the competitiveness of enterprises, the purchasing power of the French. First of all, despite a staggering debt that peaks at 98.5 per cent of GDP, the Government, with regard to the structural deficit, is acting in spite of common sense and showing unacceptable cowardice. While European standards set the deficit reduction target at 0.5 points of GDP per year, the French structural effort will be zero in 2018 and will reach only 0.2% in 2019. How can the French understand a Government that asks them to make ever more efforts but refuses to tighten its belt? Between the 20 billion euros of public expenditure inflation for 2018 and the 25 billion euros for 2019, how can we not understand the grunt that is swelling in our streets? Secondly, the Republican Group has been urging the majority for months to take effective measures to boost the competitiveness of our businesses and boost growth. The Government has remained deaf to our proposals. If only measures affecting companies in a sustainable way, such as the reduction in the CICE rate or the increase in corporate tax, as a result of the conversion of this tax credit into a reduction in contributions, are taken from businesses, an additional €4.3 billion. This is how France is relegated to the seventeenth position in the rankings made by The Global Competitiveness 2018 Report of the countries with the best overall competitiveness, far behind Germany, in third place. In these circumstances, how can we be surprised by the dramatic decline in our growth? According to the latest forecasts by the OECD, it is expected to stagnate at 1.6% of GDP for the years 2018 and 2019, i.e. 0.7 points below the figures recorded for 2017. When it comes to purchasing power, finally, putting taxes on the most precarious households to continue spending more and more, it's making fun of the French! This Government's foot-and-mouth towards our fellow citizens is all the more unbearable because the rise in taxes is accompanied by a dangerous stagnation in purchasing power, when it does not decrease by deepening inequalities. In light years of the €6 billion reduction in household taxation promised by Mr Emmanuel Macron, measures such as the ceiling on the increase in retirement pensions to 0.3% in January or the deindexation of social benefits strike the French budget. In 2018, 300 million euros were removed from the household portfolio. On the trajectory of the carbon tax, let us recall that the Republican Group, on 17 October of last year, gave the Minister of Economy and Finance an appointment with the French for the following summer, considering that the Government should assume the combined effects of the significant increase in the CTBTP, the domestic consumption tax on energy products, and the maintenance of the price of the barrel at 52 dollars. Here we are, Minister. There is an urgent need for the Government to respond to the distress flares launched by our fellow citizens, before the areas of tension become fracture zones. The Government must respond to the anger of the French with an arsenal of effective and courageous reforms, in order to push back the spectre of the budgetary crisis that is hovering over our country. For all these reasons, the Republicans Group will not be voting on the draft amending finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u145	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u146	I can only be surprised here, on behalf of the MODEM and related groups, that the Joint Joint Committee could not reach agreement on the draft amending finance law for 2018. Let us remember the second amending finance bill for 2017, its thirty-six articles and the thirty new tax arrangements added in public sittings by means of government amendments. All the groups had denounced such a practice, to which you promised to give up, minister. This year, therefore, the PLFR was to be limited to management movements only, and no tax arrangements were to be included, the examination of which would have its place in the finance bill or the social security financing bill. The commitment is fulfilled and is fully in line with the reform of the functioning of our Assembly, which allows the budgetary procedure to take place in a more serene and constructive atmosphere. When the Government does not play the game of this reform, the Assembly does not hesitate to report to it, which is evidence of its good health. It is therefore extremely regrettable that such a simple amending finance bill faces such opposition. Let me make it clear that my group is not opposed to the debate. The debate is legitimate and allows us to shed light on our choices. But this debate took place precisely on the financing of the additional costs of OPEX – for which our group has proposed that inter-ministerial solidarity should be used if necessary – or the new forecast should be taken into account with regard to the costs of compensation to electricity suppliers financed by the special allocation account improperly called "Energy Transition". On these points, the rapporteur-general and the minister have been able to clarify the correct budgeting of our expenditure. The proper management of the appropriations must continue to guide our majority. It is not a question of blindly applying Community provisions, but simply, I would point out, of improving our public accounts and making their presentation sincere. As far as sincerity is concerned, it is precisely the role of this House to adopt the most fair budgetary appropriations possible, despite unforeseeable risks by definition. As for the improvement of our public accounts, it is a major issue in terms of budgetary sovereignty and justice, knowing that the debt burden represents more than 40 billion euros each year – even 50 to 60 billion in a few years if interest rates rise. Ladies and gentlemen, we must realize that this amount is equivalent to the budgets of justice and defence combined: it is so much public money that is not spent on helping the most fragile people, the competitiveness of our economy and the implementation of a transition that is both energy and solidarity. You know how important the issues of combating inequality and social justice are to the Democratic Movement. I will not be longer, ladies and gentlemen, not to unnecessarily prolong the debate on this PLFR. It must be examined within very tight deadlines, but as you know, this constraint comes from the fact that, on the one hand, the first results of the growth of the third quarter are only available at the very end of October and, on the other hand, the payment of the December salaries of officials requires the adoption of this text before the end of November. I would like to refer here to the comments made by some of our colleagues who, in committee, have rightly stressed the fact that such deadlines were ultimately compatible, in some cases, with the consideration of a text that does not include tax arrangements. Mr Minister, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support you in the pursuit of your objectives, while hoping that you will once again commit to maintaining the same method of work for the budgetary collective at the end of next year. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote in favour of this PLFR for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u147	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u148	The re-reading of the amending finance bill for 2018 follows the same steady pace that it has seen since its submission to the Council of Ministers on November 7. On the method, as Valérie Rabault, president of the Socialist and related group, rightly pointed out at first reading, this calendar of discussions is simply new. The text was presented to the Council of Ministers on Wednesday, 7 November, before being presented to the Finance Committee. The amendments for the Finance Committee were to be tabled on 8 November for consideration on 9 November. For the public sitting, the amendments were to be tabled on 10 November for discussion on 12 November. In new reading, we find the same infernal cadence. The Joint Joint Committee, meeting on Tuesday 20 November, failed to reach an agreement. In the Finance Committee, the amendments were to be tabled on 21 November for consideration on 22 November. In a public session, they were to be tabled on November 22 for discussion on November 26. And the final reading should be held in two days, Wednesday, November 28. Why such a calendar? While it must be acknowledged that the text comes back to the original spirit of the PLFRs, with the notable absence of tax articles, its conditions of examination are primarily due to the impasse in which you find yourself. In the absence of advance decrees, you are currently missing, until the end of the year, EUR 163 million in budgetary appropriations to pay teachers in the second degree of public education, EUR 19 million to pay the salaries of teachers in the first and second degrees of private education, EUR 20 million to pay the salaries in university research and EUR 31 million to pay the salaries of police officers. Finally, by the end of the year, you still lack EUR 404 million to finance external operations. Let us be clear: you are caught up in the reality of your management: you no longer have enough money in the caisses of some departments to pay for professors, police officers or researchers. The Order in Council should not be viewed as shameful, minister. This type of decree is provided for in articles 13 and 14 of the Organic Act on Finance Laws of 2001, because everyone knows very well that it is not possible to decide everything on 1 January. In order to manage its own budget, each Frenchman may also have to make decisions during the year that were not originally foreseen. However, this does not make it a bad manager. After addressing the issues of timing and methodology, I come to the bottom. Two points are of particular interest to socialist and related Members. First of all, they regret that, for the first time, the financing of external operations is entirely based on the budget of the Ministry of Armed Forces, without recourse to inter-ministerial solidarity. This is in contradiction with Article 4 of the military programming law 2018-2022, which provides only gradually for the full cost of OPEX and internal missions by the Ministry: 650 million euros in 2018, 850 million in 2019 and 1 billion in 2020. In 2018, the Ministry of Armed Forces will therefore bear the cost of OPEX, i.e. €1.37 billion, through cancellations of €402.2 million from the equipment of the armed forces and €155 million from salary savings. This choice will lead to a massive reduction in your initial ambition. Secondly, Socialist and related MEPs regret the cancellation of EUR 50 million in appropriations from the "Public Energy Service" programme, which includes the credits from the energy cheque. While everyone, or almost everyone, agrees that the increase in energy taxation must be accompanied by compensatory measures for the most modest French people – workers and pensioners alike – it is incomprehensible that the Government should make such a cut in this system, which is directed towards our compatriots who suffer the most from the current tax battling on energy products. According to the PLFR, these EUR 50 million were set aside. However, during the first reading, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts acknowledged that these appropriations were the result of an under-consumption of the energy cheque, due to the sometimes misunderstood operation of the scheme. For the members of the Socialist and Related Group, one thing is clear: instead of planing the energy check credits at the end of 2018,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u149	We're increasing them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u150	... every effort must be made to ensure that the households most in need use them. For my group, moreover, the ecological transition is not opposed to social justice. This is why it proposes three measures for 2019: integrating a "fuel" component into the energy check; impose a one-year moratorium on the rise in ICTPE; extend the energy check to French people who do not have access to public transport, subject to income conditions, in order to take into account the realities of the territories. I will defend another amendment, which will aim to provide sufficient funds to renew the "honey analysis" measure of the European beekeeping programme – EAP – managed by FranceAgriMer, for the month of December 2018. I would point out that the honey fairs have encountered some difficulties in financing the analyses since the "honey analysis" measure of the European beekeeping programme managed by FranceAgriMer has not been renewed. This lack of renewal would result from insufficient mobilisation of funds by analytical laboratories. But it penalizes local honey fairs, which are very successful: they are based exclusively on volunteers, who rightly do not want to take any health risks in their event. The amendment by the Socialist and Related Group is therefore intended to allocate, for the month of December 2018, 25000 euros, i.e. one twelfth of the 300000 euros needed over a year, so that honey fairs can again receive financial support to use an analysis laboratory, which will allow them to secure their demonstrations. We therefore take into account the comment made by the rapporteur-general on his sizing at first reading. The year 2018 will remain for many people as a beautiful year: that of our victory in the football world cup. However, it has been spoiled by your fiscal year, which has, in particular, abolished the solidarity tax on wealth, less taxed income from movable capital through this particularly unfair tax, namely flat tax, increased, in an unprecedented way, taxes on energy products, and drastically reduced the number of jobs assisted, a measure that affects the communities and, above all, the most fragile people, usually in the process of integration. In January 2018, the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques économiques – OFCE – referred to a recessive budget overcompensated by a growth supplement linked to the economic policies of the previous quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u151	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u152	The comparison of the 2017 French growth figures with those of 2018, and that of these same figures with those of our European neighbours, show that OFCE had seen it right. Your economic and fiscal bet failed. We went from runoff to evaporation! As inequalities widen, consent to tax decreases. However, the budget for 2019, which is currently being discussed in Parliament, shows how much you persevere in the error and unjust social orientations. As the minister likes to repeat, often in Latin, "mistake is human, persevering is evil": I therefore announce that the Socialist and related group will not vote this PLFR for 2018. (Applause from the SOC Group)
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u153	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u154	As we have all observed, this amending finance bill for 2018 goes back to its original vocation under the LOLF, i.e. a text reduced to mainly budgetary adjustments. This return to fundamentals breaks with a practice resulting from a kind of second finance law that includes many tax measures. We therefore welcome the return to this original objective of the end-of-year PLFR, focusing only on measures that have an impact on the current year. We also welcome the "syncrization" of the budget and the Government's determination to make real budget forecasts, as affirmed by the absence of a budget freeze or advance decrees. With regard to the conditions under which we have had to examine this text, haste has affected the quality of our work. It would therefore be appropriate for such a situation not to happen again. During the examination in the Committee on Finance, the opposition groups left the committee to protest the senseless and untenable delays, feeling that this was a lack of consideration for parliamentarians. I regret, however, the paradoxical choice of certain oppositions, which, at first reading, sought to add tax measures to the PLFR, although we are all aware that they do not belong in such a text. You have kept your commitment, Minister: all additional appropriations are now the subject of a vote by Parliament. Let us try to get to the end of this, with a time limit now sufficient for Parliament to be able to examine these appropriations with the necessary elements and time for analysis. As regards the openings and cancellations of appropriations, that is true, you did not resort to decrees in advance. As you told us, they are all being done in the context of this amending finance bill. However, several decrees on the transfer and transfer of appropriations, operating movements reaching several tens of millions of euros between different programmes and missions, for the 2018 financial year, were transmitted to us last week, two weeks after the initial examination of the PLFR. Of course, these movements of appropriations on the substance are nothing shocking, however, could they not have been integrated into the PLFR? We would have gained even more in budgetary sincerity. The nine articles of the PLFR are intended to ensure the end of the management of the 2018 fiscal year. On the macroeconomic side, the growth assumption of 1.7% for 2018 seems "a little high", in the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance, which estimates a growth of 1.6% more likely, thus joining the INSEE forecasts. It is surprising that the Government maintains this macroeconomic scenario despite adverse economic signals. Taking into account the growth gains after three quarters, the Government's scenario assumes that the French economy will return in the last quarter to a pace of growth comparable to those observed in 2017, i.e. between 0.6% and 0.8% of growth. However, given the current state of household confidence in their purchasing power, it seems unlikely that the French economy will accelerate sufficiently to achieve an annual growth rate of 1.7% throughout the year. The public deficit forecast for 2018 also remains the same as in the original finance law: 2.6% of GDP. It should be possible to achieve it, given its unambitious nature. I recall that the government deficit amounted to 2.7% of GDP in 2017, with virtually zero structural efforts. This improvement in the government deficit, however small, is not attributable to the Government's policy, as it relates to the "non-discretionary component" of the evolution of the structural balance, i.e. the elasticity of compulsory levies and an upward revision of non-compulsory levies. The government deficit forecast is €80 billion, a decrease of €1.3 billion compared to the revised estimate presented in the 2019 Finance Bill and €5.7 billion compared to the initial forecast in the 2018 Finance Act. Despite this improvement, the deterioration in the deficit would be EUR 12.3 billion compared to the 2017 level. The government deficit therefore remains at a very high level. The decrease of €1.3 billion is due in particular to the sale of 2.3% of Safran's capital, amounting to €1.24 billion. The shareholder state makes divestitures, allowing it to reduce its deficit and contribute to its deleveraging. Even if the objective can only be approved, the contribution of the divestitures will necessarily have a very limited effect on the reduction of the State's debt: it cannot be the only solution envisaged. The High Council notes that the road to reducing the structural balance to the medium-term objective remains important. It is time to take this path and accelerate the move towards a return to control of our public finances, our public deficit and our debt. I now turn to the various articles, starting with a few remarks on the article on the adjustment of resources in the energy transition trust account. Approximately EUR 600 million have not been spent, which fully justifies an adjustment of the revenue allocated to this account for 2018. However, green taxation has increased in recent years by almost EUR 8 billion, of which only EUR 1 billion has been allocated to the energy transition. Admittedly, the ecological transition is not only funded by this CAS, but also through other budgetary missions. But it's time to hear the tax ras-le-bol expressed throughout our country for more than a week. Fiscal leverage cannot and should not be the sole instrument of public policy. Finally, there is a lack of accompanying measures so that every French citizen can effectively participate in the ecological transition without experiencing it too unevenly. Hear that the measures you take on fuels are particularly unfair and do not have the same effect depending on the purchasing power of households using a car. Hear the taxpayer's incomprehension with these tax increases, which they no longer understand what they are used for, but which they suffer fully on a daily basis. Do not impose the ecological transition: accompany it effectively! I come to the reduction of 10805 full-time equivalents of the vacancy of job authorizations pursuant to section 11 of the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022. This new provision will make it possible to restore its full scope to the parliamentary authority to set an annual ceiling on employment authorizations per department, which will no longer be disconnected from reality by vacations sometimes accumulated over the years. But I say again today: the reduction of the vacancy in job authorizations cannot be counted as a strict reduction in the number of ETPTs. I come to the appropriations of the Defence Mission. We knew it at the time of the review of the PLF for 2018: for a total "sincerization" of the budget, it would have been necessary to enter 1.1 billion euros for the financing of the external operations and the internal missions carried out by our soldiers. That was not the case. In the framework of this PLFR, the principle of inter-ministerial solidarity must be applied, as has always been done, because this principle embodies the full support of our Republic and of all ministries for our armies. Of course, OPEX is partly financed by the thawing of reserve appropriations. But on the 146 "Equipment of forces" programme, for example, you are thawing EUR 319 million to finance the OPEX, when we could have considered anticipating orders to speed up the equipment of our soldiers, who are in great need of it, and the deployment of new weapons and new means at their disposal. Moreover, we know that the question will rest next year: for 2019, only 850 million euros are entered for the financing of OPEX and MISSINT, whereas these are not likely to decrease next year. As at first reading, ladies and gentlemen, the IDU Group, Action and Independents will abstain on this PLFR for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u155	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u156	Put on your yellow vest, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u157	So, Mr. President of the Republic, this is your budget for shame. Here's your anger budget. Last year, it was your inaugural gesture, your entry into the matter: for your millionaire friends, you removed the solidarity tax on wealth. It was a campaign promise – to finance it, precisely, your campaign! I have gathered the testimony: what did you guarantee to your generous patrons, at any point of time, from a lucrative dinner to the next? The end of the ISF. In exchange, the financiers signed you to draw the cheques of 7,500 euros. As soon as you entered the Elysée, you kept this commitment and assured your donors of a return on investment. With the removal of the ISF, but not only: also with the flat tax, with the erasure of the tax on high wages, with a "special Brexit" discount for bankers, with a reduction in corporate tax. To your boyfriends and naughty guys, you've distributed billions, eyes closed, not to mention. And at the same time, as soon as you're told about the abandoned hospital, underfunded EHPADs, disabled students, jailed courts, dilapidated police stations, as soon as you plead for health, education, police and justice, you answer "public deficit". You brandish this terrifying spectre: "What debt are we going to leave to our children? » Hypocrite that you are! Charlatan of debt! They're very selective, your father-the-rigueur indecency! [[Smile on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] At the same time, above all, to enrich the rich, how did you proceed? You have impoverished the poor or the modest. You scratched 5 euros on the tenants' APL, you eliminated 240,000 assisted contracts, you raised the CSG of retirees. You had to dare! At this point, you had to dare! Such an obvious injustice, so blatant, you had to dare! But you dare everything, and that's what we recognize you for. This year, you could correct the shot. You could correct your budget. On the contrary, you are digging the same furrow, the furrow of injustice. For the poor, it will be the freezing of pensions, allowances and the gas tax. For the rich, for their firms, it will be the abolition of the exit tax and the doubling of the CICE. It's so excessive, so abusive! This affects the purse, of course, the purchasing power, but not only. It is the pride of a people, their honor, who are wounded: they make fun of him. His own head of state is making fun of him! For to this injustice, to this evidence of injustice, as one throws salt on a wound, you add the arrogance of injustice, to the great reinforcement of "people who are nothing", of "faithful", of "refractory Gauls", of "you only have to cross the street" and other "crazy money", as renewed provocations. You ripped the social contract. You sat on it. You trampled him. You've made confetti. And that's France you're tearing today. [[Murmures on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Even before your election, on the eve of the second round, I was sending you an "open letter to an already hated president." And this is what I wrote to you: "You are hated, you are hated, you are hated. I hammer it on you because, with your court, with your campaign, with the bourgeoisie around you, you are struck with social deafness. You don't hear the rumbling: your hour, hoopy, in the Whirlpool parking lot, was just a taste. It's a class ditch that, in front of you, is widening. With twelve "you are hated" in about thirty lines, I warned you with no insistence. Stylistically speaking, I don't wear this text in shoulder straps, like a literary pride. In substance, however, I do not deny it. The warning sounded right: you are now hated, massively hated. It was sprouted yesterday, and we are now witnessing the harvest. The ditch turned into a gulf. You plucked it yourself, this hatred, from Lorraine to the Ardennes, from the Marne to the Somme, during your week of memory roaming. You have done the jovial – "I like to go to contact", "I will come back more often" – but this resentment in your own people must have bruised you and, I hope, alert you. For the past ten days, especially, what brings together the "yellow vests"? What unites them much more than diesel? What, beyond a thousand differences, makes them a common feature?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u158	Extremism!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u159	You! The aversion you provoke. The aversion your caste provokes. What slogan do we sound on the roundabouts, barely a tight microphone? "Macron, quit! Macron, quit! »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u160	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u161	So how can we get out of this democratic impasse? If I were in your place, or if I were your pen, here's the speech I'd be offering you for tomorrow night: a real rupture, frankly disruptive, in your quinquennium. "French, French, I heard you. I understand you. I've changed. I was wrong: politics is not done at CAC 40. We must lead the ecological transition, with the demand for social justice and with a democratic renewal. Tonight, this is a new road that we are opening for the country. This is the road map that I am entrusting today to the Prime Minister and to the whole Government. » It would be a change of course. And these are the three measures that I would announce as a matter of urgency to sew France. First step: give the ISF back first! Trace tax fraud without pity – all the yachts registered in Malta, all the private jets in Jersey, all the Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon that you receive with the honours at the Elysée,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u162	That's why we're going to tax them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u163	... all your friends who optimize, who "panamisize", who "caimanize", who "luxemburgize". It's a poison for society, 60, 80 or 100 billion that's taken away from the tax department! It's a poison, not just for finances, but especially for the morale of the nation. How can we believe in the common good when the privileged, the CEOs and the first of the ropes, whom you give as an example, cheat, steal and free ourselves from the common law? It is all the French who are disgusted, disgusted, discouraged. Second step: stop this gas tax! For a year and a half you've been President of the Republic, and even before, the environment is the least of your worries. Nothing in the latest law on agriculture: no transitional outline. On the contrary, you sign the CETA with Canada and a free trade agreement with Mercosur – free trade before the planet! This spring, in the law for a new railway pact, we found eighty-five times the word "competition" but zero times the word "climate", zero times the word "warming", zero times the word "biodiversity". And now, suddenly, nature is worrying you! But what for? To tax motorists! Who's going to bother? Small wallets, of course. As you know, the richest 10% emit eight times as much greenhouse gas in this country as the modest households. Under cover of ecology, it is the greenwashing of fiscal injustice. You were already Robin of the woods upside down, who takes the poor to give to the rich; There you are, Robin from the woods upside down and repainting in green. So, swallow your pride, come back on that tax! Third step: put the package, immediately, on the insulation of the buildings! Consecrate 20 billion euros, which you will scratch on the CICE, to a large national plan for thermal renovation. Why? Because 45% of the energy in France is consumed for heating. Because there are 7.5 million thermal colanders in the country. Because, above all, this is an opportunity to lead a popular ecology. People, often the most modest ones, will see their gas and electricity bills plunge, and at the same time, CO emissions will decrease: it will be the winner-winner, not the loser-loser as it is today. These are the measures I would announce, in your place. It would be a start to get out of the dead end. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout also applauds]] It's a serious time, Mr. President of the Republic. The time has come to become the president of all the French, and not just of your financial friends.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u164	It was a yellow speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u165	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u166	The amending budget which we are considering today at a new reading bears its name rather poorly. This is a confirmation budget rather than a correction, as it does little to correct the political and budgetary choices you made last year – choices that favour the small number and penalize the large number. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] The year 2018 is the first full year of this majority and the executive. This is the year in which the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth came into effect. The original sin of François Hollande's quinquennium was that he had not renegotiated the European budgetary treaty when he had committed himself to doing so; Yours is to have voted a budget for the rich for 2018, by abolishing the ISF and introducing a flat tax of 30% on dividends. This is your original sin because, at the same time, you have attacked the vast majority of our citizens to finance these tax gifts: I am thinking of the increase in the CSG, the increase in taxes on fuel and tobacco, and the reduction in social benefits. The injustice of this budget for 2018 will stick you throughout this quinquennium like the sparadrap sticks to Captain Haddock's fingers. No remorse, no regret. Actually, this choice seems to be taken care of. You stay straight in your boots and, at the highest summit of the state, we do not hesitate to provide the after-sales service of the measures adopted last year: during his trip to Belgium last week, did the President of the Republic not describe as "good" the reasons that had led some of our fellow citizens to move overseas? In doing so, he gives a white-seing, grants his blessing and offers a "key-in-hand" repentance to those who had left our country for tax reasons. What a remarkable example: money before people! Exile yourself, you will be forgiven for your sins! It is this political orientation, which drives the highest authorities in our country to make curvettes to the powerful, which gives so much credit to the mobilization of our fellow citizens, last Saturday in Paris and elsewhere, but also in our hospitals with the movement of nurses, and in our courts with the movement of lawyers. In the absence of a positive outlook, in the absence of a horizon that would tend to clarify itself, anger is rising, and the divides that cross our country, be they economic, social, territorial or cultural, are growing. Let us say it forcefully: the injustice of your political project is the fuel of anger rising in the country. Rather than blowing over the embers by taking this exasperation from the top, it is indeed a re-foundation of our social and republican pact that we need. This was the objective of the Communist MEPs throughout our budgetary discussions: to create the conditions for a living together, whether urban or rural, young or less young, rich or less rich. Social cohesion is not decreed: it is achieved by concrete actions and strong measures, but also by symbols. So we proposed, to finance the ecological transition, this great debate of the moment, the introduction of a solidarity tax for the planet, PSI, a real budgetary innovation applicable to major groups and offering an annual yield of around EUR 5 billion. This measure, swept away by a turn of hands in our discussions, is nevertheless just and legitimate. It is fair on the tax side, because the effective tax rate of large groups, i.e. the amount of tax they actually pay, is much lower than that of our TPEs and SMEs, and this tax would thus provide a necessary remedy to ensure tax justice in our country. It is also ecologically correct, as it offers a salutary rebalancing of the financing of the ecological transition, largely supported by households today, as is well illustrated by the punitive taxation on fuels.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u167	Racket!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u168	Finally, for us, there is no ambiguity: these EUR 5 billion must be entirely directed towards the ecological transition. By the way, such a clear and clear dart must guarantee the good consent of the economic actors involved to this measure – even if we were not really concerned about it, given the large amounts of tax that they have enjoyed since you came to power. The debate over the shift of perceived resources towards the ecological transition is going through this amending finance bill. As indicated in this budget document and as we indicated at the first reading, you propose that we withdraw EUR 600 million from the financing of the energy transition and return it to the general budget. These 600 million euros collected through the ICTPE, paid by our fellow citizens when they are about to fill up, will not eventually fuel the energy transition, but they will finance, at choice, the suppression of the ISF or the flat tax at 30%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u169	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u170	Two weeks have elapsed between the first reading of the text and today's discussion, but the answers do not satisfy us. Unease and misunderstanding remain. Contrary to what you say, it is quite possible to guarantee these funds and postpone them for next year, rather than simply making them a budgetary adjustment variable in order to balance your accounts. 600 million euros, that's not nothing. Our fellow citizens would need it for their mobility, their energy renovations, their food and, more generally, their purchasing power in the dark. I would remind you that it would take EUR 300 million to revalue farmers' pensions, as proposed by my colleague André Chassaigne's parliamentary initiative in this area, adopted by the House, and that you unjustly and authoritarianly blocked the Senate at the time of its final adoption. Communist MEPs and members of the GDR Group have also paved the way for a recast of corporate taxation. It must be noted that multinationals have the hand. One example is Starbucks. Since 2007, this American company has paid zero euros in corporate tax, thanks to mechanisms that, in fact, always use the same strings: the Starbucks group organizes itself to fill the accounts of its subsidiary by artificially putting up charges that it pays to other entities of the group, located, as you imagine, in countries with privileged taxation, such as the Netherlands. This situation can no longer be sustained. If we remain crossed arms, two major dangers await us: either a tax-free society, the ultimate fantasy of neoliberals and true civilizational culture, or a society with ever more taxes to pay for the most fragile and, at the key, the explosion of the social pact and the consent to tax. We have therefore proposed to modernise our corporate tax to allow it to apply to the economic actors who are playing with States and borders, and artificially transfer their wealth. This tax against the relocation of profits, this levy at the source of multinationals will continue to be carried by Members of our group in the coming months. Over and over again, tirelessly, we will have to attack the ever stronger financialization of our lives and put the human and his environment at the forefront. Finance must be at our service and we must not be at the service of finance. Clearly, this draft budget does not take this path, and, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech, goes in the opposite direction by giving the advantage to the rich holders of capital, by abolishing EUR 600 million of appropriations to be allocated to the energy transition, by also abolishing appropriations per million and by reducing the employment ceilings in the public service of the State. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Therefore, and in the absence of any substantial development, we will vote against this draft amending budget, which is no better for the Allier, dear colleague – but I note that Mrs Peyrol has left – than for the other rural departments, as you wish to make it appear. In any case, in Allier as elsewhere, our fellow citizens ask you to change your policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u171	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u172	As we are re-reading the amending finance bill for 2018, you will not blame me, ladies and gentlemen, for reminding us here of a few definitions – an unnecessary reminder to the public finance experts you are, but who will undoubtedly have an interest in the citizens who are following our debates today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u173	Go ahead, they're listening to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u174	Recent developments have shown that it is easy for some parliamentarians, and sometimes not least, to surf the relative lack of knowledge of the various financial laws by our fellow citizens to deceive them on the interpretation of some of their provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u175	You take the citizens for what they are not!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u176	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a draft law on amending finance is a law designed to amend the provisions of the original finance law, that is, that of the year in court, taking into account the economic context and the significant events that could have an impact on the provisions voted at the end of the previous year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u177	A little humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u178	Except for major events, therefore, the provisions of this Act are in principle less numerous than those of the original Finance Act. However, in particular during the last quinquennats, this law has moved away from its original vocation, becoming a kind of broom car and mixing forgotten tax measures and/or articles that have not found their place in the finance bill. It has often been the vehicle for changes in caps and political retreats, the law of procrastination – when advance decrees did not deprive parliamentarians of the space for debate it was supposed to represent. That is perhaps the case, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, which has caused you to table these hundreds of amendments that have led our debates – I should rather say: your monologues – until the middle of the night. The strength of habit has blinded you so much that you have missed the fact that we had changed method. Have you noticed...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u179	Oh, yes! We've never seen so stubborn!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u180	... that no advance decree has been issued by the Government to effect the current or end-of-management budgetary adjustments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u181	That's too bad! We had to listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u182	It hasn't happened since 1985, so, of course, it's a little messy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u183	A little humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u184	I do not know if you remember that last year the Government committed itself not to make an advance decree, and since it does what it says, it is done, and that will now be the norm.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u185	We need to listen more. We wouldn't be here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u186	It had also undertaken not to include any tax measures in the PLFR. That's done, too, and it's never happened since the adoption of the LOLF. All of this becomes, suddenly, very legible: in the spring, we evaluate the provisions of the previous year – this is the spring of the evaluation. In the fall, we decide for the coming year – this is the finance bill – and, at the end of the year,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u187	You've got the evaluation on the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u188	... a budgetary adjustment is made – it is the law of amending finances –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u189	Thanks for the class!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u190	...and all this by strengthening the power of Parliament. All the provisions of the finance laws are debated and passed by us. Isn't that beautiful?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u191	And then we're surprised that it's reacting on the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u192	On the merits, it must be noted that in 2018, budgetary adjustments are really only budgetary adjustments, because this first budget was built on sound bases and realistic forecasts: public expenditure is kept and in line with initial forecasts, the public deficit is 2.6% of GDP, consistent with our fiscal programming trajectory, tax and non-tax revenues correspond to the assumptions of stable and sustained growth of 1.7% and the budget deficit is updated to €80 billion, an improvement of 5.7 billion compared to the original finance law. The finance bill for 2018 was serious and sincere, so there is no surprise in the amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u193	It's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u194	Oh, yes, I was going to forget! When a line of credit presents a positive balance at the end of the year under the Financial Amendment Act, it is transferred to the general budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u195	Thank you! We didn't understand it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u196	We did well to come!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u197	This is the case for the appropriations of the energy transition trust account, which has not been used up in full, as renewable energy is ultimately more competitive than expected. What good news! So when we tell the French that the credits of the energy transition are in decline, it is, at best, misinformation and, at worst, manipulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u198	I hope they hear you, the French, because they have another idea of your policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u199	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It's not glorious, but demagogy, isn't it what's left when you have no more arguments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u200	You didn't go out this weekend?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u201	We have to get out on the weekend!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u202	Mr. François Cornut-Gentille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u203	Two weeks ago, I paid close attention to the explanations given by the Prime Minister and by you, Mr.Minister, on the removal of interdepartmental funding for the incremental costs of OPEX. Your justifications are, in fact, based on two main arguments: the significant increase in the defence budget allows it and the under-consumption of Title 2 appropriations limits the impact. I would like to convince you of the weakness of these elements of language and warn you of the major consequences of a decision that you are trying to present as purely technical, when it is eminently political. The first political problem raised by your decision is that of trust in public speech. The argument of budgetary Sincerization cannot be used in good faith, since the military programming law – LPM – voted by your majority explicitly included maintaining interdepartmental funding. On returning to the word given, you put the Minister of the Armed Forces in a very difficult situation, because it took firm commitments on this matter a few months ago, and you also disavow your own majority and the Defence Committee, which have also made a strong commitment. None of this escapes the military, who are watching us. The question is therefore not so much about budgetary sincerity as it is about sincerity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u205	I would add that your denial is carried out under conditions that are even more injuring for our armies than when 800 million credits were cancelled in July 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u206	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u207	At the time, this was due to the very strong pressure from Brussels on France; Today, nothing like this can justify your choice, and you therefore resort to this accounting and budgetary smoke, in the words of General de Villiers, in order to deny your own words. The second political problem posed by your decision is that of our present and future defence credibility. The military programming law adopted by your majority aims to give our armies back their full capabilities of intervention. A major budgetary effort is being made to this end. This real effort, however, is, by the very admission of the Chief of Staff, only the strict minimum to enable the armies to carry out the tasks assigned to them. It includes a budget of EUR 3 billion in 2023, which everyone knows is extremely ambitious and difficult to achieve. With this new 400 million euro cut, you are weakening the entire LPM building as a whole and over the duration. Indeed, this amputation will be repeated as soon as next year, during which the financing of the OPEX, in the amount of 850 million euros, will require an extension of several hundred million. The same will apply in 2020 and thereafter, despite better budgeting. In these circumstances, it is certain that the Ministry of the Armed Forces will still have to hand in the pocket. By 2022, it will be well over EUR 1 billion that will be missing in order to modernise the equipment, because, as the rapporteur-general points out with the expertise and honesty he knows, the cancellations of appropriations from programme 146 to finance the OPEX "will result in a postponement of the orders planned for the next financial year" – I read his report. From postponement to postponement, our armies will mechanically suffer a deterioration in their ability to engage. After the 2017 Cup, and if we are biasing in 2018, what about our credibility to cross the 3 billion euro march in 2023? The truth is that, in an already extremely fragile building, these 400 million opens a huge breach. The LPM is already dead. I therefore call on my colleagues in the majority to take a good look at the scope of this text if it is adopted as it stands. Because the stakes are not good management, as the technostructure claims; the hidden stake lies in the balance of forces between Bercy and the Ministry of Armed Forces. With this text, Bercy holds the revenge sought for years, at the risk of betrayal of the word given and the weakening of our defence. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] Mr Minister, I understand you very well, even if I fight you, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do not engage in this dispute that does not concern you! Managing Bercy's susceptibility isn't your business. Simply respect the commitments of the President of the Republic and the MPA. You owe it to our military, and public debate, like your conscience, will be better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u209	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u210	In Paris and everywhere in France, the French shout at injustice, contempt and downgrading. Everywhere in the province – I'm not talking about "territories", because I abhor this novlangue that transforms and deconstructs everything that our country has shaped – French people are mobilized to tell you that they can no longer accept your ever-ending adage: "Stretch your belt and make room for others who are coming! » "The consequences of anger are much more serious than its causes," wrote Marc Aurelius. Here we go. Going so far as to demand the removal of President Macron,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u211	You take your desires for reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u212	... the French send you a clear message: "Take care of us, protect us, protect our economy, our purchasing power, our way of life, our ability to project us into the future, to move us, to live worthy of our work"! It is the people of the homeless, the forgotten, the despised and the snobbles who send you this message, but you answer them accounting records, Excel spreadsheets, Theodule committees, class contempt, moral lessons and savings lessons. With your austerity policy, growth will be 1.5%. Let me remind you that the average growth forecast for the euro area countries is 2.1%. We are therefore witnessing a real economic downturn in France. At the same time, poor economists you are, you are advancing the public debt: after an increase of $20 billion in 2018, it will grow by about $25 billion in 2019, as announced by the Chair of the Finance Committee. The continuous increase in the structural deficit and debt, which is clumsyly masked by the sale of State shares to the capital of various companies, does not relieve households tax. With a mandatory levy rate of 45.3% of GDP in 2017, France ranks second in the world. The tax baton always accelerates. CSG increases, technical controls, speed limits to 80 kilometres per hour, fuel increases, reduced personalized housing assistance, end of assisted contracts, grey card for future bikes: the state no longer manages to hide its tax appetite at the service of a few. French workers, both active and retired, are considered to be cash machines. The Government uses the ecological argument to justify its tax policy. It promises a €6 billion reduction in household taxation, but the French are not fooled by this game of cup. We give on the one hand to take back on the other with the increase in taxes on fuels, the famous daily tax. The reality of the budget is the decline in social benefits, the quasi-freezing of pensions and the decline in family benefits. In 2018 and 2019, the 0.1% of our richest compatriots will see their disposable income increase by an average of €86000 per year. The French who smoke cigarettes, who drive diesel and who do not go to Parisian restaurants at 200 euros are taxed, while the most privileged, now exempt from the solidarity tax on wealth, make the machine for optimisation and tax evasion run full. According to a survey published by Mediapart in 2017, the French group Kering, owned by the Pinault family, reportedly escaped the French and Italian tax services 2.5 billion euros. This group reportedly artificially transferred 70% of its profits to Switzerland through its logistics subsidiary Luxury Goods International – LGI. In November 2017, a tax investigation was opened in Italy; in France, nothing, we see nothing coming. It is true that it is easier to tax French pensioners or motorists heavily than the powerful financial groups that are your friends. I would add that draft finance law for 2019 foresees an increase of 11 million euros in the appropriations allocated to state medical aid, the AME. The purpose of this aid is to provide social benefits to individuals who are not French nationals and who are illegally present in our territory. In order to reduce the ever-increasing tax burden on motorists, as far as we are concerned, we propose a moratorium on fuel taxes. The current 60% of taxes are passed on to the pump, and our compatriots pay the price directly. By removing this tax aberration, the State would have the possibility to lower prices at the pump and thus reduce the French bill. I think this is the key ratchet for the yellow vests to stop. There is an increasing number of taxes on motorists. Most of the revenue is allocated to the general state budget or to the purchase of new radars, as we have seen in the budget. We propose that a majority of these revenues be reallocated to road infrastructure improvements. In France there is an emergency: 17% of the unlicensed road network and 7% of the bridges are involved. The disaster of the Genoa viaduct should be taken seriously. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to pursue another policy that combines ecological transition and purchasing power; security of the French within our borders and their economic interests. Today, November 26, in my constituency of Denain, it has already been ten days since the end of the month. Here we build the law. We do law because we lack courage and charity, wrote André Comte-Sponville; Let's try to make him lie by refusing this PLFR!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u213	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u214	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u215	I would like to refer to the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Rule 58(1). Minister, since this morning, the website www.impot.gouv.fr does not work. You are not unaware that it is particularly used at the moment. I tried with my IDs...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u216	Is this really a point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u217	That's a point of order, minister. We would like to have a response on the functioning of the administration and on its relationship with the administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u218	It's a matter of topicality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u219	A question of topicality, let's see! All we have to do is wait tomorrow! That's an extraordinary answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u220	Thank you for closing my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u221	Minister, it seems to me that you owe at least one answer to all French people who want to pay their property taxes or their housing tax and who cannot have access to the website www.impot.gouv.fr.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u222	I now call the clauses of the amending finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u223	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u224	It aims to reverse the levels of the structural deficit and the cyclical deficit. Mr Minister, a new element has taken place since the first reading of the text: the Committee on Finance has heard from Mr Pierre Moscovici, European Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs, Taxation and Customs. The latter tells us that France was making an "inadequate" structural effort. It is even "minimum" according to him. It refers to the risk of non-compliance with the rules of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance, the TSCG. He himself said that this country he knows well could make an additional effort. Even if things go in the right direction, France could go a little further, as the deficit it notifies is absolutely not in line with the commitment made by signing the TSCG. Mr Minister, whatever the governments that follow each other, we must respect the words of France. Our country has acceded to the European fiscal pact by signing the TSCG. While we have fallen below the 3% public deficit threshold, given various alarming indicators, such as the level of our debt, our structural deficit should be further reduced. [[Ms. Véronique Louwagie applauds]] Mr Moscovici told us that only six countries had been monitored by the European Union under the convergence criteria: Belgium, France, Portugal, Italy, Slovenia and Spain. We are not going to leave our country – I will not recall its history, its present and its place in the European Union – at the same level as Slovenia! Mr Minister, I believe that a substantial and structural effort must be made, and I am sorry, I think you have not taken this step.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u225	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u226	Madam Member, we must quote completely what the European Commissioner has told us. He added to the comments that you mentioned that there were flexibility clauses, a preventive part that had not been the subject of any comment with regard to the French budget. On the form, I note that your amendment tends to change the trajectory of the 2018 structural deficit at the end of November. That is not how a budgetary policy will be changed! With regard to the timetable, I think that your amendment is more an appeal amendment than anything else. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u228	First of all, Mrs Dalloz, I respect the rules of procedure of your House. As you have seen for the past seventeen months, I am always at the disposal of parliamentarians to answer their questions, including when they are not directly related to the content of the amendments under discussion. I therefore reply that with my own digital tablet and my personal codes, I was able to connect without problems, in a few moments, to the tax administration's website. Apparently, it also works, at the bench of government commissioners, for my Assistant Chief of Staff. Do not hesitate, Mrs Dalloz, to take up such questions, including outside the Chamber. It is not useful to make a point of order for this. Anyway, I'm not running away from my responsibilities. Secondly, with regard to the amendment, I would remind you that, for the first time, we have reduced the deficit to below the 3% of GDP threshold. I would add that if I listen to your proposals, I understand that we have to stop taxation – that's what I understood by reading the debates that took place here during the review of the PLF – and that we have to spend more public money, since you are opposed, if I listen to Mr Cornut-Gentille, to the financing of OPEX from the military budget alone, which means that we have to take the other ministries...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u229	Like it used to be!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u230	That's even what we voted for a few months ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u231	We are the government that has increased the army's appropriations the most since the Cold War, and we would have lessons to learn, you say! Why not, I'm happy to receive them. It is only a pity, honourable Member, that the same effort is not really made when the majority you supported was in business. If we make a catch-up today, it is good that the effort has not been made during several legislatures. Ms.Dalloz, we will have the debate when we look at the 2019 finance bill again, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the majority of the Senate, whose political colour is also yours, has aggravated the public deficit by several billion euros. The High Assembly has quickly removed the measure of non-revalorisation of social benefits provided for in Article 44 of the PLFSS, which represents an additional cost of almost EUR 1.7 billion – we will be discussing it again this evening, and we will restore this measure of limitation of public expenditure – and has also provided for EUR 1.5 billion of additional expenditure for the State: this is already EUR 3 billion. Of these sums, EUR 600 million relates to family allowances: it would please Mr Lurton and many of our fellow citizens, but this would have extremely negative consequences on our budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u232	This is not the purpose of this text, but we can talk about it, if you wish, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u233	We must add about €2 billion in miscellaneous expenditure, tax credits and tax revenue. All of this is related to the amendments adopted by the Senate on the texts we are considering tonight. It is therefore happy that your party is not in power, Mrs. Dalloz! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You quote Mr Moscovici with ease, which has not always been the case, if my memories are good. But if it were you who decided on the budget, he would have asked you, like Italy, to be more strict and to do it again. So he's happy that we're in power, not you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u234	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u235	Thank you, Minister, for having deigned to answer me on these two points. I would like to make available to you the document which I published at noon forty-three on the website impots.gouv.fr, which attests that the service was being maintained. I'm glad to know it's been fixed: it's a good thing. I simply hope that this kind of problem will not occur in January with the collection at source. I, for my part, welcome the difficulties to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u236	Ah, that's what you wanted to get at...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u237	Mr General, I was present at the hearing of Pierre Moscovici by our Finance Committee. I listened to him like you did. He said that French debt closes to 100% of GDP, and demanded efforts to reduce that debt, because it is the rule in Europe – an expression he repeated. He then referred to the five countries I mentioned earlier, and recalled the procedure for debt and excessive deficits provided for in Article 126(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and specified by the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union, known as the TSCG. I hope that France will not be subject to such a procedure, and I urge you to make choices quickly. As an opposition party, we make choices, and we assume them: they are not the same as you, especially with regard to family policy and defence, as my colleague François Cornut-Gentille pointed out very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u238	And then, what expenses do you propose to reduce?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u239	We propose to make efforts where possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u240	Yeah, but where?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u241	I will give examples earlier, defending amendments aimed at reducing expenditure by that. By adding up all these savings, we could build a different budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u242	You're a long way from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u243	You didn't really have the courage to cut public spending: that's what you're being blamed for. The structural deficit is reduced by 0.2%: it is a non-development, it is not a real structural effort, it is not enough to maintain the credibility of France's signature. You are not serving our public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u244	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u245	Minister, I stood very wisely in my place waiting patiently for the examination of the PLFSS – of its Article 44 in particular – to intervene on family policy, addressing your colleague Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health. But since you mentioned me by name, I recognize that I am very pleased with the position of the honourable senators, who have decided to increase family allowances according to the expected rate of inflation, as was the case every year so far. The National Assembly had chosen, on the proposal of the Government, not to increase family allowances at the rate of inflation. This under-revaluation would not affect the richest families, who have no entitlement to these allowances since 2015 – or receive so small amounts that the rate of revalorisation does not matter – but the middle-class families, those whose incomes are among the lowest, those who receive 1300, 1400 euros per month. These families will, of course, continue to benefit from family allowances, but since these allowances will not be revalued at inflation level, they will lose purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u246	Yes! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u247	What is currently happening in our country is the result of all that you have taken away from the less well-off families, including this undervaluation of family allowances. They don't realize it yet, since the measure is not yet applied, but you better look at it twice before making decisions like this!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u249	We are addressing the consideration of the first part of the amending finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u250	On identical amendments Nos 18 and 21, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u251	With this article, you transfer €577 million of revenue from the fuel tax – the famous ICTPE, an internal tax, supposed to finance the ecological transition – to the general budget. In a period of slinging against rising fuel taxes, you had to dare, but apparently you dared everything! Here we are witnessing a beautiful imposture: you tax the French on the pretext of ecological transition, but you do not affect the proceeds of these taxes on the said transition. There is nothing to guarantee today that these EUR 577 million will be spent on environmental protection, contrary to the commitments you have made, Mr Minister, with the Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Le Maire. I quote the rapporteur-general of the Senate Finance Committee: "The government sees green taxation as a means of making well-received revenues. Those who have good backs today are undoubtedly the "yellow vests"! By transferring these credits to the general budget, you show that you did not use all of the credits available to you for 2018 in the special trust account "Energy Transition". Therefore, why continue to tax the French? You obviously haven't finished taking them for fools, but I'm afraid for you that they haven't decided to let them go, and that's so much better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u252	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u253	The review of this amending finance bill comes very late in the year, so we can only change the 2018 budget execution at the margin. But this article raises questions, given the current situation – since you have reiterated that you will not come back to your decision to increase the so-called eco-tax on fuels on 1 January 2019. The question arises as to whether the sums collected through this tax will be allocated to actions in favour of the ecological transition or not. I would like to ask you not about 2018, to which this PLFR is relative, but about the coming year: can you tell us, minister, what you will do with the excess of compulsory levies that will weigh on the French from 1 January 2019 – if you do not change your position – due to the increase in the ecological taxation on fuels?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u254	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 18 and 21, to delete the article. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u255	Mr Minister, as we did at first reading, we propose, by this amendment, to reconsider the cancellation of EUR 600 million in appropriations from the special allocation account for the energy transition. Some elements of context: this trust account, which is one of the budgets allocated to the energy transition, is fed by the ICTPE. This tax, which has been increasing significantly since the beginning of the year, is one of the causes of the dissatisfaction of our fellow citizens. As a result of a deliberation by the Energy Regulatory Commission adopted last July, which notes a decrease in public service charges in connection with the support for renewable energy, you propose to cancel €600 million of appropriations in order to adjust the revenue to the expenditure of this trust account, and ultimately to allocate it to the general budget of the State. We do not understand this choice: by transferring to the state budget these 600 million euros received under the CTBTP, you are again showing our fellow citizens that the taxes they pay by using fuel at the pump do not feed – at least not enough – the ecological transition. Will this EUR 600 million not instead be used to fill the gaps created by the abolition of the ISF, the institution of the flat tax at 30% on dividends and the shift of the CICE towards burden relief? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It is difficult to understand this choice, as our country is faced with a wave of protests that we consider legitimate. This gives you more credit for the thesis that you are using ecology for budgetary purposes. Clearly, other choices are possible, such as deferring these EUR 600 million to the next financial year. That is not what you have decided: we therefore propose, by this amendment, to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u256	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u257	This is the third time that I have proposed this deletion amendment, which was very well presented by the previous speaker. You say, on the one hand, that the expenditure on this trust account decreased during 2018, that the account itself is in surplus and that the surplus should be returned to the general budget. At the same time, you are imposing an increase in fuel taxes that is likely to further strengthen this surplus, since this account – I would remind you – is abounded by the CTBTP. How will you justify this without debating yourself?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u258	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u259	During the presentation of the text, I spoke at length about the nature of this "Energy Transition" case – which I hope, like the Chairman of the Finance Committee, will change his name, as his current name misleads everyone. I will therefore simply repeat that if these amendments were adopted, the EUR 600 million would remain in the account and nothing could be done about it: they are standard expenditure. On the contrary, allocating this sum to the general budget makes it possible to finance all the policies of this budget, including the energy transition. These amendments are therefore counterproductive. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u260	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u261	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u262	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u263	We have heard the explanations given earlier by the rapporteur-general. But we've consulted some experts, and it seems to us that you could quite decide to direct this money to the energy transition. And for that, there is no better vehicle than this amending finance bill! However, it is not your choice: you prefer to give it back to the general budget. We propose to reconsider this decision so that this money goes directly to the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u264	What you say does not correspond to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u265	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u266	One can all the more doubt such an assignment as the famous mission "Ecology, development and sustainable mobility" will itself be planed for €200 million for 2019. Taking into account the 600 million euros of this trust account, this is 800 million euros less for ecology.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u267	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 18 and 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u268	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 45 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 11 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u269	I would point out that we are encountering a small technical problem: the results of the elections do not appear, as is customary, on the screens arranged in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u270	Is this a decision of the Elysée?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u271	Definitely, connection problems are accumulating!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u272	[[Smile]] But I know that everyone here trusts me, so there is no problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u273	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 19 and 22, to delete the article. I call Mr Lecoq to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u274	The executive is proposing further cuts for fiscal adjustment, while many public policies are cruelly lacking the means to meet the expectations and needs of our fellow citizens. Thus, this amending budget proposes to cancel the EUR 2.7 billion sum of appropriations. These cancellations do not penalise any of the missions, since they concern three essential public policies today: work, research and higher education, and ecology. The main contributor to these cuts, the mission "Work and employment", mission sacrificed, cow-to-milk mission since the beginning of the legislature, and which will once again make the costs of your political and budgetary choices: 492 million euros of credits will be cancelled, of which 360 million on assisted contracts and 117 million for hiring aid in SMEs. As for the research and higher education mission, it is more than EUR 200 million that is proposed to be cancelled, which we in the GDR Group do not accept in the light of the urgency of a genuine plan to support public research. By the way, I would like to remind you that 56 million euros of credits will be cancelled on the "Student Life" programme, while the students, who were pocketed with the drop in personalized housing subsidies, would still need this envelope. Last but not least, after EUR 600 million of appropriations cancelled from the energy transition trust account, it is the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" that will trinize EUR 90 million on transport infrastructure and services. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] All these cancellations illustrate a desire to adjust the general budget of the State by carrying out punctures here and there in an attempt to balance the accounts. For us, these cancellations ignore the real needs, which we see everywhere in the territory and which are still expressed every day at the crossroads. We therefore call for its deletion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u275	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u276	By this amendment of appeal, the La France insoumée group expresses its opposition to the massive budget cuts proposed in this draft law on amending finance, especially since it is not any mission that is the object of it while there are also additions of credits – on debt, etc. Thus, the missions "Work and employment", "Ecology, sustainable development and mobility", "Research and higher education" and "Relationship with local and regional authorities" suffer cuts, sometimes even dry ones, i.e. without appropriations on other programmes of the same mission. We oppose, of course, and with determination, these cuts that concern essential missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u277	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u278	I have already said in committee that these amendments are intended to delete an article which is mandatory by the LOLF since it is the balancing article. You can amend it, vote against it, but not delete it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u279	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u280	Same opinion as the commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u281	I do politics, you govern; Bad, but you rule!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u282	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u283	This is another appeal amendment that we have discussed in committee: it is proposed to include in Article 4 black and white how much money will be transferred, compared to what was voted in the original finance law, in addition to the European Union and less to local and regional authorities. If the overall effect seems to be an increase, it is only in the annexes that we can see a reduction of EUR 213 million to the detriment of the local authorities when they are already exsangued, and an extension of EUR 738 million in revenue levies to the EU, an excessive increase that we condemn. These transfers must be legible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u284	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u285	The PLFR follows the nomenclature of the PLF. Therefore, this amendment "can't turn" according to one of my expressions. On the other hand, the distinction between the revenue levy for the Union, on the one hand, and local authorities, on the other hand, would seem relevant to me. But it's not the right text. It would be better to consider this proposal in the context of an organic law which would make it possible to reorganise this point in order to make it clearer. The clarification requested does not appear to me to be illegitimate, but unfavourable at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u286	I put to the vote the whole of the first part of the amending finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u287	We are considering the second part of the amending finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u288	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u289	New entouroupe, new imposture, but this time against our army. This draft Financial Amendment Bill provides for the cancellation of appropriations within three programs of the Defence Mission and for the transfer of them to Program 178 "Preparation and Use of Forces". This movement is intended to finance external operations beyond the appropriations provided for in the original finance law. In doing so, Minister, you are going against the military programming law for the years 2014 to 2019 as well as the law for the years 2019 to 2025, both of which have provided for interdepartmental funding for the additional costs of external operations not covered by this appropriation. To vote for a law of amending finance that suddenly violates two laws of military programming, it is no longer an entourage or an imposture: it really becomes a perfidy, because it is thus the entire army that will have to bear these extra costs. Here I can only remind you of General de Villiers' remarks when he resigned in 2017: "I can no longer look my guys in the eye if we reduce our resources further. Your government, obviously, does not have this elegance and this concern for honour!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u290	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u291	Several speakers had already pointed out that, so far, the additional costs of external operations and internal missions were being financed by all ministries at the end of the year, when it was possible to calculate it. Your Section 5 Minister, however, provides that this additional cost will be borne in full by the military budget this year. This decision has a concrete translation: it leads you in particular to take 320 million euros to finance the purchase of equipment and weapons that our armies so much need. Such a measure goes far beyond a budgetary correction that is expected to be included in an amending finance law. You break a golden rule and deny your own promises. I recall that under the previous quinquennium – I think I remember that we were both on the benches of the opposition – Mr. Le Drian had obtained, year after year, that the extra cost of external operations be financed by all the ministries, within the framework of inter-ministerial solidarity. This rule has even been included in the military programming law 2014-2019, and your government has taken it in full letter in the military programming law 2019-2025. You're denying promises. You come back to a rule that made consensus on all the benches of this assembly, particularly in the National Defence and Armed Force Commission. Even worse, you're losing the confidence of our military. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Macron's quinquennium began badly in military matters, with the cancellation of 850 million euros in the summer of 2017, which led to the resignation of General de Villiers. The military programming law then passed had brought a little confidence and hope back into our armies. With this decision, Minister, your government loses the confidence of our military, who are engaged in difficult conditions, especially in the Sahel. This really isn't the time. It's a bad blow to our armies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u292	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u293	We have been talking for several years about the total loss of credibility of political speech. Well, that's a good example! The Assembly had reached an almost unanimous agreement to raise the military budget. As far as the OPEXs are concerned, everyone knew that they were largely under-funded, and the slippage was known as soon as the 2018 Finance Act was passed: 400 to 500 million credits were already missing compared to the 1.1 billion originally planned spending, and even a little more due to the accounting of previous transactions. It was said: "Promisedly, the military budget will not be affected and the slipping will be financed interdepartmentally from the budgets of the other missions. An article was even voted to that effect. And today, we are told, "Well, no, all you voted for was nothing." How this image is given to our people and to our army!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u294	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u295	That's not acceptable. However, it was not so difficult, minister, to say that the MPA is being applied, even if it is being managed to find the 400 million elsewhere. You would have been yelled at by your colleagues, but you're used to it, it's not a problem – you're there for that. At least you would have respected the word given. [[François Cornut-Gentille applauds]] However, this measure only reduces the annual increase, promised between $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion annually, to $1.1 billion, i.e. 30% of promises made are abandoned. How, then, do you want political speech to have credibility? She's completely devalued! And everyone is content with it, invoking the calamities of time. But you can't hold such a language. Put yourself in the place of our soldiers fighting. They said, "For once, they had agreed. It changes us from the horions that they send regularly, without realizing that we risk our skin; not them, who are very hot in their hemicycle. And today, we're going to do the opposite. Your question must be answered, minister: why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u296	We come to the amendments. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u297	By this amendment, we refuse to allow the 185 "Cultural Diplomacy and Influence" programme of the "External Action of the State" mission to be a variable of budgetary adjustment of a ministry already subject to severe financial cuts. In this regard, we were already deploring the modest resources allocated to cultural diplomacy by this government, and a fortiori when it wants to abolish part of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u299	For all the amendments which have already been seen three times, i.e. in committee, in public sitting at first reading, and then in committee, in the context of this new reading, I shall confine myself, from now on, to reminding the committee of its opinion, by concluding only on the new amendments. The committee is therefore against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u300	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u301	I know that I have already defended these amendments in committee. In any event, I would like to stress that there are cancellations of credits from the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission. It's not nothing; EUR 14 million of cancelled appropriations will not make our agriculture and agri-food model sustainable. In addition, €8 million is cancelled to the detriment of food safety and quality. How can such cancellations be supported when, by having recently passed a law, we claim to make agriculture healthy and sustainable, when so many farmers struggle to live from their activities and when health and environmental scandals multiply, whether it be the health and social consequences of junk food or the ravages of plant protection products? I have heard, Mr rapporteur-general, that you will only take the floor to recall the opinion of the committee, but I would like to express both my question and my opposition to such cancellations of appropriations on this type of mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u302	I have before me two amendments, Nos 16 and 26, which can be presented together. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u303	Above all, I will defend Amendment No 26, which is more likely to win the opinion of the rapporteur-general, at least I hope so. It aims to allocate sufficient funds to avoid any health risk at local honey fairs, so dear to our beekeepers as, of course, to their customers. The aim is to renew, for the month of December 2018, the honey analysis measure of the European beekeeping programme, the EAP, which is managed by FranceAgriMer. As a reminder, since this measure has not been renewed, honey fairs have encountered some difficulties in financing these analyses. This non-renewal would result from insufficient mobilisation of funds by the same analytical laboratories. The aim of Amendment No 26 is therefore to allocate, for the month of December 2018, 25,000 euros – this is not a matter! – one-twelfth of the EUR 300000 needed over a year for honey fairs to be able to receive financial support again, enabling them to use a laboratory of analyses and thus to secure their events. This amendment takes into account the remark of the general rapporteur of the budget made during the first reading of the draft amending finance law for 2018 on the amount of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u304	On the following identical amendments, Nos 5 and 30, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Committee's opinion on Amendments Nos 16 and 26?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u305	It is unfavourable with regard to Amendment No 16. As for Amendment No 26, quite honestly, even if it turns technically, unlike the first, are we going to change a general balance for 25,000 euros? In other words, are these 25,000 euros indispensable for a sector? I'm feeding some doubt.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u306	That's the amount!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u307	Nothing to spoil, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u308	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] That is why I will again give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u309	We don't get a lot of money!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u310	They don't like bees!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u311	They've got sea urchins in their pockets!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u312	It's only worth 25,000 euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u313	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 5 and 30. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u314	It refers to the subject repeatedly discussed by OPEX, and aims to ensure that the principle of their interdepartmental funding is respected. The draft amending finance law provides for the cancellation of €404 million of appropriations and their reallocation to the financing of the OPEXs, questioning what had been decided in the military programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u315	I call Mr Cornut-Gentille to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u316	Everyone now knows the terms of this debate, which is important. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, as I see you consulting your computers, you will have to decide on an important provision. Charles de Courson and Charles de la Verpillière had earlier serious words, at the height of the stakes, which is not simply whether the Minister of Defence and the armies themselves will be pleased or not, but which is indeed the credibility of the public word. All groups, from extremes to the centre, support the maintenance of the old funding of OPEX. In the current political context, which I do not need to recall, the political credibility, a fortiori with regard to something that we all have, majority as opposition, supported, is not anecdotal. In two respects, I would like to enlighten those who have little knowledge of military matters. Indeed, one can feel a considerable effort. I, who am in opposition, do not deny – I even greet him – the one that this majority is doing in favour of defence. However, it must be borne in mind that this effort has been calculated by including the interdepartmental funding of the OPEXs. As important as it is, this effort represents only the strict minimum necessary to finance our armies. Or else, we must reconsider our ambitions, and it is a heavy political choice for our armies. That's the bottom line. In conclusion, two small political elements, first at your address, Minister. You are a minister who is said to be political and promised to a great future. For you, is it just a matter of being Bercy's good little soldier? The military are certainly not yellow vests – they wear other colours. They're not going to protest, but they're looking at you. It seems to me that the Government, which faces a lot of difficulties, does not need to lose its credibility with them: it would not be a good thing, including from a political point of view. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] I now turn to our colleagues in the majority. You don't have Bercy's pressure on the minister. It seems to me that you were elected on a new project and on a different way of doing politics: you have the opportunity to show it tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u317	We bet on the intelligence of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u318	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u319	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u321	I will reply to Mr François Cornut-Gentille, and to his colleagues who have spoken on this issue, notably Mr Charles de la Verpillarie. I have already spoken at length during the first reading of the amending finance bill for 2018. It seems to me that the Prime Minister also responded to you in a question-and-answer session in the Government. And we also had this debate elsewhere, in the Finance Committee and in the Senate. First of all, I would like to reassure you, Mr Cornut-Gentille: I am not under Bercy's pressure. I know that everyone is interested in my personal, physical, mental and political life, but Bercy is not here to give me a few lollipops if I recite the numbers and cards that are put under my nose. I hope, as you know me, that you lend me a little more qualities than that. This does not mean that it is not a good administration, but it only does what it is asked to do, that is, that it responds to a political command.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u322	Do you recognize that there is a political problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u323	Let me tell you, on the other hand, that no one has a monopoly on the love of our armies. That's so true! I hear here or there that there would be those who love our soldiers. Thus, Mr. de Courson has very literally told us: "You realize, think of our soldiers, it is almost a second crime that you are committing against them! This expression was very demagogic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u324	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u325	I deeply regret it. Earlier, Mr. de Courson, you shared your experience, which, as everyone knows here, is both very important and very long. You could also have said, but you have not, and I regret it from the point of view of intellectual honesty, that the Government to which I belong is making very significant budgetary savings on the appropriations of certain ministries. He was sometimes criticized, and a few moments ago, by the deputy of the communist group. But the same government is also increasing very strongly, other budgetary appropriations. This is particularly the case for those in the Ministry of Armed Forces. We are not doing so for reasons that would meet the aspirations of public opinion, but because, in a dangerous world, our armies have been suffering for a very long time – Mr.Member, you know these issues extremely finely – from chronic underinvestment, because we had underestimated the importance of human and especially material needs. In particular, this Government will have to deal with the renewal of nuclear deterrence. Last year and this year, we have increased military appropriations by EUR 1.7 billion, and we will do so again next year. This is the largest increase decided by a government since the cold war. I would therefore like, first of all, with great respect for the parliamentary debate, to recall these facts of paramount importance and, in particular, to say to the majority that it can be proud to have given our equipment and our soldiers the means that unfortunately – for reasons x or on which I will not come back – successive previous governments had not given them. It is this majority that does it. Secondly, Mr President, last year we had a discussion on the cancellation of appropriations, marked, but not only, by the resignation of General Pierre de Villiers. At the end of 2017, I, at the request of the Prime Minister of course, made commitments that no one had ever made to the armies: the full thawing of military appropriations. It is true that things are sometimes difficult because they are subject to constraints. It was not until the last days of December, when we became aware of the exact amount of tax revenue in our country, to be able to thaw these credits. I did it in full. There was no budgetary cavalry or, for the moment, any surrounding as you might imagine from the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts, even though at the end of December, between Christmas and New Year's Day, it would probably have been easier – but it would have been the donkey's kick – to resort to it. We didn't. In addition, I am, under the authority of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Public Accounts, to thaw military appropriations in November. I am also the Prime Minister of Public Accounts – and you owe it to the collective work of Parliament – to make this thaw to the tune of 3%, when the others never or very little, at the end of the year, when they did not decide, in the end, a freeze of 8%. In November, therefore, our armies know exactly how much money is allocated to them, and the thaw is 3%. Finally, Mr President, we could discuss it ad vitam aeternam, but what was happening under the previous legislatures for external operations? For our part, and as President Woerth, whom I thank for his intellectual and budgetary honesty, stressed, we have always said that we would make the OPEX budget sincere by abounding in tranches of EUR 200 million. It is true that the exact amount required to finance OPEX cannot be foreseen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u326	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u327	But no, Mr. Member of Parliament for Courson, we cannot fully know this amount a priori. This is all the more true since it can be decided during the year, in particular by the Head of State, that new external operations will be carried out here or there. It's quite possible. It is therefore normal that the principle of a connecting track exists. Moreover, it is quite right to say that past budgetary programming was insinuating. We have therefore decided to make it sincere in tranches of EUR 200 million. Each year, the forecast will be less insinuated than in previous years. If we do this, honourable Member, and if you were able, earlier, to rejoice at it, it is in particular because we consider that military expenditure must be paid from the military budget, that it is not by nature an inter-ministerial taxation. Every year we increase the appropriations of the armies in order to make the budget more sincere, it is in order to take a completely normal, logical and respectful approach to Parliament. What happened in previous years? Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Public Accounts made you a great number, worthy of the great magicians. To make no one angry, he announced interdepartmental taxation, and then he took military credits to pay for other things. Look at what happened in the last three fiscal years, including when the Minister of Defence changed: that's exactly what happened. As far as we are concerned, we are saying that we can thaw military appropriations, having assured of course the increase in the appropriations of our armies. We decided, since the amount was the same, to a few million euros – I do not go back to the discussion we had at first reading about the efforts made by Mrs Parly or on certain management elements found this year – to make such a thaw. We say that we do not have to engage in this prestidigitation number, to lie to national representation. This year, because we have increased and thawed the army's appropriations, we do not have to make openings and facade closures to please him. You are absolutely right: every year, as we hope for a growing "sincerization" – with constant external operations, we all agree – this debate will be less and less appropriate. No one deceives our armies – and that is certainly not what you want, Member: I know your honesty – first of all because we allocate them a very high budget, a translation of a fair effort from the nation, then because we are thawing credits and simmering them. We thus keep the promises of the military programming law, and I am very proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u328	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u329	You called me a demagogue, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u330	Not you, your words!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u331	My words, you say, are those of a demagogue. Demagogues like me, by the way, you'll find a lot of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u332	We can find a number of them, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u333	Why do I put a certain passion in this case? I'm a former officer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u334	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u335	What do you mean, "and then"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u336	Beyond the figures alone, we can look at what is in a budget. On the other hand, you refuse to answer a simple question: why do you not respect the law of military programming? You don't want to answer it! You do not realize how, in doing so, you make a mockery of public speech and, with it, of Parliament. This programming law, we passed it no later than six months ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u337	Yes, last July!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u338	That's what's serious! You said in our budget debates that what we are talking about would have no impact on military orders, even though almost 330 million euros, out of an envelope of 404 million – a little more than 70% – are charged to equipment appropriations. The impact study of the bill itself says exactly the opposite! What's going to happen? The orders will be staggered! In other words, you continue the practices of your predecessors, this zigzag policy of making promises without keeping them. That's what I'm criticizing! And I don't see what's demagogic in my remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u339	Mr. François Cornut-Gentille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u340	I want to respond to the minister and draw the attention of my colleagues in the majority to the fact that he did not answer our questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u341	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u342	There are two things, one: if we change the law of military programming, in which case we must say it and modify the defence budget accordingly, or we must maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u343	That's it, the whole question is here!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u344	We cannot accept what the majority is about to decide – unless it has a burst of honor. Indeed, Minister, in terms of budgetary sincerity, a lot of criticism has been made in the past. But that's not the point! We didn't have much to say in the past, you say, but that's exactly what you're about to do. We announce an effort of sincerity, respect for the trajectory of an ambitious law of programming, and, from the first year, we show the opposite! This perpetuates parliamentary practices that have been repeatedly denounced by the current majority. Sincerity, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, was at the heart of your commitment in the spring of 2017. Here you have a very concrete opportunity to show whether these comments were serious or only intended to amuse the gallery.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u345	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u346	You do not mind me telling you, minister, that you have responded as Minister of Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u347	Of course, and that's a good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u348	It is indeed your role, but what we are talking about, far beyond a mere controversy over 400 million euros, is a matter of principle. By renouncing the interdepartmental financing of the additional costs of external and internal operations, the Government, through the voice of the Minister of Public Accounts, is putting the first nail in the coffin of the military programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u349	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u350	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u351	You cannot hope for a second that the military, that all men and women who put their lives at risk in the service of the country, will in the future have confidence in your promises, or even in what you are voting in Parliament – in this case, the military programming law. So the bad decision you're about to make is serious, and you have to measure the extent of it, Minister. Maybe it's not too late to give it up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u352	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u353	[[Smile]] Our group, convinced by the arguments of Officer Charles Amédée de Courson, will vote for these identical amendments in order to defend the objectives of the military programming law. We are also challenging the waiver of the interdepartmental funding of the OPEXs: this, in our view, is also a violation of the military programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u354	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 5 and 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u355	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 46 Number of votes cast 46 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 20 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u356	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor in support of Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u357	The rapporteur-general, who blames the amendments already tabled at first reading and re-examined in committee, does not dislike our position: on this point, you can trust the opposition. By defending the same amendment at a new reading, therefore, I will probably get the same answer, which will not suit me any more. I propose here to abound the budget of the OPEX by EUR 1 million. This sum is modest, I agree, but, as it is said in the Jura, where I live, and in rural areas in general, small streams make large rivers. This increase in the budget would be offset by a reduction of EUR 1 million in the budget allocated to the Prime Minister, i.e. the mission "Direction de l'action du gouvernement", of which I am special rapporteur every year. The PLFR is indeed revising the appropriations for this mission to a considerable extent, in terms of commitment and payment appropriations. This decision, we are told, is justified by the need to coordinate and reorganise government action, but I note that €20 million is being spent on staff costs in the Prime Minister's office. While everyone is concerned about the significant increase in cabinet spending in each department, the Prime Minister does not set an example. I therefore propose, symbolically, a reduction of EUR 1 million in the appropriations entered in statement B.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u358	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u359	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u360	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u361	This amendment, which concerns an envelope of EUR 50 million, aims to finance the payment of an extension of the energy cheque by the end of 2018. France of the most modest, that of the workers, of the pensioners, also rural France, is on the street to demand more purchasing power, which would give everyone the opportunity to become an actor in the ecological transition. That is why it is high time to raise the threshold of the energy check. The Government has made a number of announcements in this regard, since the cheque is intended primarily for persons in precarious situations, including, in particular, the beneficiaries of social minimums. The raising of the threshold would benefit, for example, modest workers, who need a vehicle to move, and would be justified by the dizzying rise in fuel prices. This measure would also allow the energy check to integrate a rural component, or in any territorial case: it is intended to improve the remainder to live, i.e. the amount available once the energy bills have been paid. These are of two kinds: fuel and heating. In the case of fuels, there is a break between urban and rural areas, the bill being heavier for the latter, who do not have access to public transport; When it comes to heating, there is a fracture between the North and the South. The minister must know that it is a little colder in the North, where the heating has been on since the end of September. The thermal regulations of 2005 have defined zones, which make up a thermal map. Under these regulations, Northern countries benefit from a coefficient of 1.3, which would be easy to apply. We do not ask you here for a digital revolution, but for a simple revision of the energy cheque, a tool for the redistribution of purchasing power in the service of social justice and territorial justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u362	Yet I'm right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u363	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u364	With this appeal amendment, we are opposed to the cancellation of more than EUR 56 million in appropriations from the "Economy" mission, i.e. 3% of its total budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u365	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u366	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u367	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u368	[[Murmures on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We propose to go back to the abolition of EUR 60 million in appropriations allocated to the Ministry of Justice. Mrs Dalloz has just proposed to withdraw EUR 1 million out of an envelope of EUR 20 million from the Prime Minister's office. The Government and the majority refused. On the other hand, the cancellation of EUR 60 million for the "Justice" mission poses no problem to them, despite the state of clocharding of our justice. I have said "clochardisation", ladies and gentlemen: it is not I who say it, but the former Minister of Justice, Jean-Jacques Urvoas. Of this EUR 60 million, EUR 4 million is withdrawn from staff costs. With this sum, we could have created some 50 jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u369	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u370	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u371	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u372	Defended as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u373	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u374	With this amendment, we would like to go back to the cancellation of EUR 359 million in appropriations from the 'Access and return to employment' programme within the 'Work and employment' mission. In particular, this programme finances aided contracts. When we see the social situation in which people find themselves, I find such a completely indecent budget cancellation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u375	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u376	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u377	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u378	One may wonder why the excess tax revenue from the domestic consumption tax on energy products has not been earmarked for financing energy transition measures, in accordance with your commitments, Minister, and those of the Minister of Economy and Finance, as I said earlier. Just a matter of timing, did you answer the Huffington Post: it would be too late to spend these credits before the end of the year, hence their transfer to the general budget. However, you promised to reallocate these famous €577 million to the energy transition in 2019, citing, as an example, the financing of the super premium to the conversion decained by Édouard Philippe in response to the challenge of the yellow vests. It can be said that this bonus is timely – but it will be for 2019. So I'd like to ask you a question, minister: Is it true that in 2018, these $577 million will be used to offset the tax shortfall associated with the replacement of the ISF by the IFI property tax? In other words, is the energy transition actually being used to finance the suppression of the ISF?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u379	No need to ask the question, we know the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u380	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 17 and 23, to delete the article. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u381	Article 8 confirms a drastic reduction in employment ceilings: the Government relies on the Public Finance Programming Act 2018-2022 to reduce the authorized employment ceilings by more than 10800 FTEs. Among the main ministries concerned are national education, with 3,266 full-time equivalents less...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u382	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u383	[["Scandalous! » on the benches of the GDR group]] [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] ... the army, which loses 3327 FTEs, public finances, this ministry sacrificed for fifteen years, which sees its ceiling of jobs amputated from 1472 FTEs, finally ecology – yes! – with 477 FTEs less.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u384	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u385	Of course, it is not a question of abolishing "hard" jobs since jobs are not currently consumed. But by so drastically reducing the employment ceilings, there is no room for manoeuvre to hire in the future and development opportunities for managers are blocked. We don't accept it. That is why we are calling for the deletion of Article 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u386	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u387	I would add to what has just been excellently and precisely said that larger ceilings had been passed in the original finance law. The Government is taking advantage of the draft Financial Reform Bill to move forward as a catimini, which seems to announce future abolitions of posts. We share the hope that the employment ceilings will be closer to the number of jobs actually filled. But, in order to narrow the gap, we have an alternative to reducing the employment ceilings: to increase the resources, especially those allocated to Title 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u388	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u389	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u390	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u391	I would point out that the provisions we are talking about are the result of section 11 of the Public Finance Programming Act, which was introduced in the Senate, and which requires, in the Amending Finance Bill, that the authorized employment limit be granted to the employment consumption found, that is, to include in it the establishment of the employment ceiling. One can judge this "scandal",...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u392	It is!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u393	... but to delete this article would be to delete a finding that the law on public finance programming obliges to make.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u394	That's what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u395	Hence my unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u396	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u397	I put to the vote the whole of the amending finance bill for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-11-26-O1081.u398	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Discussion, in new reading, of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2019. The meeting is adjourned.
