ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill to increase purchasing power through the creation of a fuel ticket (No 706, 816).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u3	Mr President, the Minister for Labour, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing since this morning a proposal for a law to introduce a fuel ticket for remote employees who have to use their cars to go to work without public transport. Naturally, I, who come from La Réunion and know the great difficulties of commuting in public transport because of a bad organisation of these and a clear lack of investment, was interested in this text. Indeed, when an employee uses public transport to get to work, 50% of the subscription is paid by the employer, but this is not the case for the fuel of an employee who comes by car. However, it must be recognised that, at times, public transport networks are insufficient or non-existent, and therefore these employees have no choice. The Group of the European People's Party could support this text, but there are many points that need to be re-evaluated, modified and added. Firstly, as regards the title: we are talking about a fuel ticket to remind the famous ticket-restaurant, but there is a major difference between them that must not be ignored: the ticket-restaurant, which allows the employer a partial deduction of his contributions and the employee a tax deduction, has a safety net which the fuel ticket is devoid of. Indeed, it happens that our colleagues in the group The Republicans failed to include in the text the obligation to take over the fuel ticket at a minimum of 50% by the employer, as is the case with the restaurant ticket. They thus leave to the company agreement or to the employer's decision the freedom to fix the rate of take-over. It is likely that in many cases employers will want to pay less than 50% of this ticket, leaving the rest to the worker. This notable difference therefore keeps your fuel ticket project away from the spirit of the ticket-restaurant. In my view, you have chosen this name only to give a good image before this device. We have therefore tabled a first amendment to ensure that the employee's share of the fuel ticket can not exceed 50% of its price.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u4	Pinning!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u5	Secondly, the bill amounts to creating a new fiscal niche and will contribute to the weakening of social security revenues. Of course, in order to guarantee the admissibility of the text, you have decided to compensate the losses caused to the Social Security budget by an umpteenth increase in tobacco taxes. Why charge consumers who are also in peripheral and rural areas, when you could have guaranteed your spending on a tax on financial transactions? Third, although your device is intended for people who live outside the city and have no choice but to take their car, it creates an incentive to use the car. That is why we tabled two other amendments. The first is to introduce a carpool bonus. Thus, the employer would take over a larger share of the ticket for the carpooling workers. The other amendment tends to adapt the number of tickets to the distance travelled by the employee, in order to avoid overuse of the car, which remains a polluting mode of transport. In addition, in your device, you make no difference between the types of fuel, some of which are more polluting and pathogenic than others. I say this again: it is imperative that our proposals take account of the environmental urgency. Car transport is a mode of travel that must be minimized, as it is a huge factor of pollution and diseases, including respiratory diseases. I come to my conclusion. The La France insoumise group proposes another vision of transport and work, which goes beyond this particular bill, but which it is good to recall. We want a real public transport development policy, especially in cities with less than 100,000 inhabitants. Furthermore, we want public transport prices to be subject to social charges or simply free of charge. On the other hand, we want to shorten transport times between home and work. It is not normal to have to make an hour, sometimes two hours' journey to the workplace. The reduction of the journey requires a substantial reduction in the price of housing in the city centre and a better distribution of economic activity in the territory. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is time to rethink our relationship to work, land use planning and our travel policies. Our amendments already invite you to do so and we will continue to defend this vision of progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u6	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, higher diesel prices, higher super prices, higher tobacco prices, higher tire prices, higher emptying prices, higher toll prices, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u8	And taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u9	... increase in the price of clothing, appliances and leisure: this is what the Republicans proposed in their presidential programme, just a year ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u10	That's what Mr. Mayor wanted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u11	Yes, the two-point increase in VAT, i.e. a 10% increase in the normal VAT rate, would have mechanically led to the increase in all prices. This increase in VAT would have penalised drivers twice as much. This is the whole paradox of the bill. Indeed, VAT applies twice on fuels: for the first time on gross product, then again on the TIPP – domestic tax on petroleum products. The French would therefore have suffered a double increase in fuel prices...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u12	Stop talking about what doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u13	It doesn't exist? I'm not making you say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u14	The reference to the presidential program, there's only one thing you're interested in!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u15	VAT, that unfair tax that everyone pays, that tax that all French people pay every day in each of their purchases, that tax that is the same for all, regardless of their income!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u16	That's what Mr. Mayor wanted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u17	Emmanuel Macron and our majority wanted to favour the path of wisdom and pragmatism by defending an overall increase in the purchasing power of workers. This increase in purchasing power, we wanted it to pay for work and above all universal, regardless of the mode of transport borrowed to go to work. Today, the French are waiting for the next step to raise their salary. It should not be limited to overtime or fuel purchase vouchers alone. Of course, the offer is tempting, but dreaming costs less than applying a law. Moreover, the proposed fuel ticket law does not contain an estimated portion of the cost of such a measure for the country's finances. The pledge is for tobacco, which would be mechanically increased again. Definitely, the martingale does not exist when it comes to public finances, and the very essence of the bill is not finally so great! Of course, the rapporteur's presentation looks like an Esso advertisement proposing to fill up with gifts,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u18	That sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u19	... but this would be at the expense of public money, would cost very much to the companies that would finance ticket-editing companies, and would reduce the financing of public transport. Of course, not all workers have access to public transport. Of course, rural life and its needs must be understood. But this rurality...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u20	Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u21	I'm coming, exactly! This rurality, like many of my colleagues in the majority, I practice it daily in my constituency of the Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u22	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u23	Yes! This rurality, I listen to it, I understand it, I accompany its development. But this rurality must never be regarded as an electoral pre-square...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u25	...and much less like an ideological valor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u26	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u27	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This rural area is France, and whether you are from Paris or Chalmazel, Strasbourg or Panissières, Marseille or Nervieux, you are first and foremost French. We Members of the majority believe that unity is always stronger than ideological fragmentation. We believe that developing a country is promoting the establishment of businesses and self-entrepreneurship everywhere, including in rural areas. We refuse the thought that you develop by limiting jobs in the big cities. In your scheme, small towns and villages would be lifeless places, only intended to park his car and sleep before going back to work the next day, filling in thanks to discount coupons. According to this vision, the inhabitants of the rural territories would sum up to François Pignon in the film L'Emmerdeur, where Jacques Brel explains to M. Milan that he makes the collection of good gifts Fina to offer santons to his petit-neve. While the bill seems at first to be generous, the financial reality and reason make it feel sulphur rather than gasoline. Indeed, in France, we still don't have oil, but we have debt! So, to the economic and social approximation of this text, I will oppose our programme and our achievements: a reduction in public expenditure, a reduction in debt, a reduction in levies during the term, an increase in the number of jobs, an increase in wages and an increase in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u28	And increase in public spending!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, today our reforms are beginning to bear fruit, and the Republicans' ridicule on purchasing power seems to be a blow.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u30	It's heavy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So, if some people thought in 2017 that the citizens had voted for Emmanuel Macron and for our default majority, it would seem in 2018 that, as at Total, citizens will no longer come home by chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u32	He had a great time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u33	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, just four months ago, in the course of the budgetary debate, I spoke on several occasions to oppose the planned increase in fuel taxes and to warn those whom this prospect enthused against its effects on the purchasing power of our citizens, explaining that the objective of convergence of diesel and petrol taxation was inevitably, under the guise of an energy transition, to cut the budget of those who have no other option but to use their personal vehicles for their journeys. I still hear the arguments of some colleagues in the majority: they did not hesitate to say that, thanks to the increase in fuel at the pump, the French would be encouraged to drive less. Inappropriate and disconnected response if it is, since those who have no other option cannot give up moving with their vehicle to get to work on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u35	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u36	And, as I said, the French would not drive less, but they would ride more expensive, and even much more expensive, which, unfortunately, is now proven. As a means of convergence, you have actually embarked on a crazy race-and-prosecution between diesel taxation and gasoline taxation, without knowing where all this will end. While waiting for them to join together, it is the motorist who pays at a high price the unprecedented increase in fuel taxation, an increase which indiscriminately strikes households, whether they are wealthy or much more modest, and which affects even more those who live in rural areas and the 20 million motorists who use their personal vehicles to get to work on a daily basis. This increase will result in a levy of 3.7 billion for 2018 alone, and is expected to reach, according to your forecasts, as they appeared in the finance bill, 14 billion by 2022. These 3.7 billion will be paid from this year by motorists alone, which, you will agree, will not help to strengthen their purchasing power, on the contrary. It must be noted that, as we could fear, the prices at the pump have blazed, undermining the purchasing power of motorists. Very concretely, on 1 January of this year, the price of the litre of gas oil at the pump increased by 11 cents, which will increase the fuel bill of our citizens from 250 to 300 euros, even more so if the price of the barrel were to rise again tomorrow. In its latest publication, the Ministry of Economy and Finance found an average price per litre of diesel oil of 1.38 euro as at 30 March. This figure, ladies and gentlemen, masks a cruel reality, that of the variability of fuel prices in the region of France in which we live. This is how the price of diesel reached EUR 1.58 in the Cantal this week – a comparable level has to be found in the Loir-et-Cher. In the face of this implacable observation, an answer is needed, and the proposal by our colleague Guillaume Peltier to create a fuel ticket on the model of the restaurant ticket is a concrete response with immediate effect on the purchasing power of employees. By offering employers to take part in the financing of the fuel costs of their employees, this scheme would significantly reduce the cost of travelling the 20 million French people living mostly in small municipalities, medium-sized towns and rural departments, who use their vehicles to get to work every day. At a time when the Government places "mobility of daily life" as a priority, without even the first effects being felt, Guillaume Peltier's initiative is welcome. Its proposal has the merit of providing a concrete response to the difficulties faced by those whose residence is far from their workplace and who do not have a public transport solution. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Facilitating the movement of millions of employees forced to use their vehicles is not only a matter of purchasing power, but also a question of social justice and fair treatment of employees in this country. They are not all equal in the face of mobility, and will be even less so tomorrow if you do not give up imposing them to slow down on the secondary network.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u37	Mr Damien Pichereau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u38	Mr rapporteur, this bill, which aims at "the creation of a fuel ticket", is based on a laudable idea – so laudable that it closely resembles the mechanism of the transport cheque that you put in place in 2006, when you were in the majority. For what results? Not much, because this too complex arrangement had not been taken over by the companies and had been abandoned two years later, still by your majority. At a time when society is calling for some simplification, adopting your bill would send a bad signal to our companies. Your idea, Mr rapporteur, is so laudable that the objectives you are pursuing are already laid down in the texts. Article L. 3261-3 of the Labour Code provides that the employer may pay all or part of the cost of fuel or supply of electric or hybrid vehicles which his employee incurs for travel between his place of residence and his place of work, in two cases: first, if either of these places is located outside the Île-de-France region and a municipal transport perimeter defined by law; Second, where the use of a personal vehicle is made indispensable by special working hours conditions which do not permit the use of a collective mode of transport. Furthermore, under Article 81 of the General Tax Code, the employer may also, under certain conditions, pay a transport premium, the amount of which is exempt from contributions and income tax, up to a maximum of EUR 200 per year. Moreover, your proposal for a law specifies that this remuneration supplement is exempt from income tax and social contributions, but only up to 15 euros per ticket. Your text, however, has the merit of stressing the need to put an end to the white areas in terms of mobility, which the Minister responsible for transport, as well as the Prime Minister, stressed from the outset of the National Mobility Assembly seven months ago. If we share the objective of allowing every Frenchman to access mobility, to fight against this house arrest, we do not approve of the means that you propose. Let's be ambitious! Let us take advantage of this debate to commit ourselves to cleaner, more sustainable, more sustainable, more intermodal, more connected and more supportive mobility. This will be the objective of the future mobility policy bill, which we will be looking at in the coming months. In order to combat white areas, it is necessary not to resign to the easy solution of self-solism. On the contrary, we must implement the provisions necessary to develop alternatives to the ecological and economic scourge of self-solism, through public transport, carpooling, car sharing and, for example, teleworking. Let's change paradigms! Rather than providing for "package" measures for territories not covered by mobility-organising authorities, let us tackle the root of the problem and ensure – I think you will agree, rapporteur – that our entire national territory is covered by one of these authorities. Similarly, rather than subsidising the business trips of our fellow citizens, let us help them acquire a modern car, which will consume less and emit less greenhouse gases, and encourage them to use public transport. In short, when it comes to mobility, we need to change our software, in a way of thinking. Your bill remains firmly rooted in the past, without meeting the social and environmental challenges facing us. For a more sustainable mobility, our majority and the Government are already committed to the climate issues that require us, particularly in the context of the climate plan presented by Minister of State Nicolas Hulot last July. First of all, the conversion premium, which makes it possible to make a large-scale transition from the French fleet to less polluting and less fuel consuming vehicles. Let us also consider the introduction of the eco-friendly bonus, which allows 27% of the cost of acquiring an electric vehicle purchased or rented, or our involvement in cycling, whether electric or not, through the bike kilometric allowance, which is currently under consideration. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In the end, this bill does not bring much innovation, other than a hybrid scheme, which proposes the amendment of existing provisions. It may even prove to be counterproductive: in its Article 3, it proposes to deduct the financing of fuel tickets from the contribution in respect of the transport payment, which is the main source of financing for the investment and operation of public transport, which would call into question the balance of the financing of public transport. For these reasons, it is not desirable to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u39	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the fuel ticket of the Republican Group, which we are considering today, deals with matters that are of particular interest to us. On the one hand, with regard to the purchasing power of the inhabitants of our territories, it is up to all of us, as politicians, to create conditions to reduce the growing inequalities between the richest and the poorest. On the other hand, the inequality experienced, in particular, by people living in rural and mountain areas, in terms of mobility and access to employment is discussed here. As elected representatives of Corsica, we believe that we have a particular legitimacy, like elected colleagues from other territories concerned, to talk about these issues, as the realities can be different, if not difficult, in certain places, especially on an island such as Corsica or on ultramarine islands, as has been mentioned. I would remind you that the median annual income in Corsica is 18965 euros, while in France it is 20369 euros. At 10.5%, Corsica's unemployment rate is the fourth highest in France. In parallel, real estate prices are rising to a level close to those of the richest regions, Île-de-France and Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. The combination of constraints prevails. These are objective, palpable realities which explain the Corsicans' desire to see the policies and legislation on taxation, employment, the economy, access to land and urban planning adapted. Entrepreneurs located in the island regions of the European Union bear additional costs "because of the condition of insularity [...], which ultimately weighs on the competitiveness of products and services", as indicated by an opinion of the European Committee of the Regions. This is a structural inequity. It is therefore not a whim to ask for solutions adapted to island territories or other places in a situation of stalling.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u41	Mountain territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u42	Overall, we can only support any legislative initiative that is in line with the aim of eliminating the inequalities experienced, in particular, by rural and mountain areas, as is the case with this bill to create a fuel ticket. However, we regret that the text refers to only one measure and that you do not go any further in the research, on the one hand, of a better link between competences and funding and, on the other hand, of favourable equalisations, in the framework of local public services, as are the intermodal rail-road transport schemes and, more generally, the strategies and action plans for sustainable mobility. The real subject, in our view, is to rebuff the maps of the relationship between territories and the state. Once again, I would like to point out that intermodal transport schemes are often a regional or territorial competence, and that one way of reducing territorial inequalities is the construction of quality public services, both in terms of frequency, continuity and tariff arrangements, particularly for the most disadvantaged social classes. If the powers are regional and territorial, we know that the bilboquet imposed by the examination of the annual financial laws, through the endowments, makes the worst fear in many areas, especially for the implementation of these public transit services, as close as possible to the rural and mountain territories. The transfer of taxes to the territories that assume these powers is absolutely necessary with a view to both accountability, territorial fairness and efficiency. Moreover, the criterion of proximity and consideration of the characteristics of each territory must be at the heart of public policies. We are fervent supporters of policies to combat the territorial and social divide, and we believe that fair and appropriate responses cannot be provided in this area – I think you have understood this – solely through a centralized and uniform model. Today, this model appears to be sluggish and ageing and leads even, through the lack of public service and the absence of equalization, to objectives that contradict the supposed principles of equality and solidarity. [["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, because it seems to us that we need to go further in our thinking, we will proceed by amendment if, however, the articles of this bill, to which we are generally in favour, are examined.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u43	Mr Christophe Lejeune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of measures on the margins – which we all know to be completely ineffective – is only an easy solution. Measures to increase the purchasing power of the French and, in this case, of the assets, must be developed as part of a comprehensive improvement plan: this is what has been under way for ten months now. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, the transport cheque put in place by the Villepin government in 2006. Two main reasons were given for the failure of the scheme: employers found it too complex to manage and transport companies did not want to bear the costs of managing it. Nothing in this bill assures us that the same difficulties will not arise, especially since employees can already benefit from appropriate measures. Pursuant to Article L. 3261-3 of the Labour Code, the employer may pay all or part of the cost of fuel or power for electric or hybrid vehicles used for travel between the habitual residence and the place of work. This measure may, on the one hand, benefit employees "whose habitual residence or place of work is situated outside the region of Île-de-France and a perimeter of urban transport [...]", which is the bulk of our rural territories. On the other hand, it may apply to employees "for whom the use of a personal vehicle is made indispensable by conditions of special working hours which do not permit the use of a collective mode of transport". The employer has the possibility, either to reimburse the costs actually incurred, if the employee is forced to use his car, or to pay a kilometric allowance in order to reimburse him for his expenses; This allowance may be excluded from the social security tax base under conditions which differ depending on whether the employee is forced to use his vehicle or whether he uses this mode of transport purely by personal convenience. The employer may also, under certain conditions, pay a transport premium, the amount of which is exempt from contributions and income tax, up to a limit of EUR 200 per year. As I said earlier, ladies and gentlemen, the laws we wish to vote on must be based on a comprehensive and coherent approach. One of France's objectives is, let us recall, a rapid and efficient energy transition. To this end, innovative mobility should be encouraged. After several months of consultation during the National Mobility Assembly, transport modes with less ecological footprint will have to emerge. This will allow carpooling and carsharing to receive particular attention in the future mobility policy bill. The specificity of our rural areas alone cannot justify this fuel ticket. The French energy transition cannot be satisfied with an incentive to take the car. On the other hand, the conversion premium introduced by the climate plan, the partial payment of collective transport costs by employers, the payment of the costs incurred by employees travelling by bicycle with the "bike kilometric allowance" are measures that allow us to reconcile in large part our different objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u45	Yes, bicycle in the Cantal at 800 meters altitude!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u46	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us avoid opportunism and recognize the effectiveness of the measures in place. Combining mobility and ecology is our challenge, the challenge of all French people. Let's keep this course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u47	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, we have to consider a bill to launch an experiment on a fuel ticket system financing individual transport costs. During the examination of the text in committee, the majority social affairs commissioners rejected the text for a number of technical reasons, but also because it was in contrast to the work of the Government over the past several months on the issue of travel costs and social dialogue. We have a shared objective: to liberate the purchasing power of the French, by attacking all subjects, and that of the essence is a very important one. Living in a village in a so-called hyper-rural territory, this is a problem that I experience every day, like most people who live there. I therefore speak with knowledge of the cause and wonder about a device that pushes to the combustion of oil, and therefore to the emission of CO, and which at the same time – forgive me the expression! – is a veritable gas plant for companies, heavy to set up for the TPEs and SMEs who need simplification measures. In this respect, the path we are proposing is quite different: we are aiming at measures that promote the purchasing power of the French, especially that of the most modest, by correlating them with ambitious arrangements in favour of the energy transition. Mr rapporteur, your scheme aims to bring some of the cost of fuel to companies instead of their employees. We know that this debate is dear to you. Under the previous legislature, an almost identical bill had been tabled by a deputy, The Republicans, and your group, at the time, did not consider it useful to put it to debate. In 2006, twelve years ago, the Villepin Government had adopted an equivalent scheme, the transport cheque, which was abandoned only two years after its creation, as it was rejected by companies that considered it too complex and impossible to implement. So, on this subject, you are doing a work of perseverance. Perseverance that would have been useful if nothing were to be implemented, if there was a need for debate on the issue, if we were here this afternoon to create a new right for employees. However, our Labour Code already contains provisions allowing, or even obliging, the employer to cover the costs of personal transport. We ourselves, since we employ our employees, have to know these devices: kilometric allowance, reimbursement of actual costs, transport premium. In the context of the social dialogue, there is the possibility of negotiating with his employer the payment of transport costs. What is the point, then, of proposing a mechanism such as yours, which is contrary to our common and shared will to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and which would be cumbersome to implement for companies, especially the smallest ones, which should go through an expensive external supplier? In addition, an ambitious mobility policy is needed, and to this end, it is necessary to leave exclusively individual means of transport. It is necessary to work on the mobility of the daily population, which was the subject of the national mobility offices and which will be the subject of the mobility guidance law, which we will have to discuss at the end of the year. We believe that public policies must be in line with territorial realities, building on local dynamics. The regions must mobilize to provide the appropriate means of public transport for each territory. Where public transport is scarce, new modes of transport have developed, such as carpooling and car sharing. There are dedicated and functional applications, suitable car parks or electric charging stations. Institutional actors have often contributed to the financing of these mechanisms as part of the energy transition. This is the case in my department of Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, where the departmental council accompanies and even promotes these actions and achievements. We must support these initiatives that are emerging from an individualistic concept of mobility and that reduce greenhouse gas production, create a link through the culture of sharing and save money. Instead of offering fuel aid that encourages the use of an individual polluting means of transport, it is better to encourage companies that can do so to develop teleworking. This is one of the aspects of the ordinances, which we have discussed at length. Of course, for this to happen, high-speed Internet access must be guaranteed everywhere, with the target of total coverage set at 2022. In conclusion, without neglecting the financial burden of work travel for an employee, there are already measures of financial participation of the employer; Above all, this bill is not in line with the necessary energy transformation that we all need to undertake by rethinking our movements and habits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u49	We have to take the car!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u50	Mr Guillaume Peltier, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the debates since my initial presentation of the text. I thank the Republicans and our 100 parliamentarians for supporting this bill, as well as the National Assembly Services Administrator for his valuable assistance. I have noted the support of all the groups in this assembly, with the exception of the two groups of the majority. The Group of the Republicans, of course, the UDI, Act and Independent Group, the New Left Group, the Group of the Unsolicited France, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, and even our colleague from the non-registered Corsican side, have, with different words, expressed their legitimate concerns on this subject and given more or less strong support to our bill. I would like to respond in detail to their questions, which, for the most part, were clear and clear. The first question was encryption. This bill aims to create a fuel ticket, the cost of which is estimated at around 600 million euros per year. How do we finance this device? We rely on the restaurant ticket model, which costs 1.5 billion euros. But, beyond this cost, the restaurant ticket represents, according to Bercy's figures, 8 billion euros reinvested each year in our territories. It is the same for the fuel ticket, which will increase the state's VAT-related tax revenues as a result of the increase in purchasing power. Better, and I agree here with the original proposals and ideas put forward earlier by Julien Dive on the defiance of overtime, we cannot tell the French, Madam Minister, that the ISF is being abolished for speculators and holders of capital at a cost to the state of EUR 3 billion, and at the same time tell them that it will be difficult to find EUR 600 million for a very concrete measure of increasing purchasing power for all our workers, middle classes, workers and employees. A question has been asked about youth. This bill is aimed not only at private employees, of course civil servants, but also at our apprentices, who need this mechanism to find a host company. The New Left group asked us about the proportionality of the measure according to income. Our bill increases the purchasing power by 200 net euros per month, which represents a 17% increase in the monthly purchasing power of a worker paid to the SMIC. It is clear that the more our compatriots belong to the modest categories, the more this measure increases their purchasing power in proportion. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has asked us about our sensitivity to the issue of the railway. This bill deals with individual cars, whether gasoline, diesel or electric, and promotes carpooling. But our group is very attached to the rail industry, even if we are going to get out of the matter and include it, especially since the discussions that have come will allow us to look at this issue very acutely. Maintaining and safeguarding the lines of everyday life, those that some Parisians wrongly call the small lines of everyday life while they are for us the main lines of millions of workers, are an essential and central subject. We were asked about ecology. This bill promotes a clear and pragmatic approach to petrol and diesel vehicles, because we are millions of people using such individual cars. But it extends to electric cars, and we have included in the committee a fair amendment from the Group of the European People's Party, which is intended to propose an increase in the event of carpooling. Finally, the group La France insoumée wondered about the question of thresholds, in the image of the ticket-restaurant. Again, we accepted and adopted an amendment creating a 50-80% take-over range, along the lines of the ticket-restaurant. I wanted to answer precisely all the questions of the five parliamentary groups that supported our proposal. I now turn to the cartoons, which I felt were particularly excessive, presented by the groups of the majority. I heard the long and slow litany of those who told us that this measure had already been tested in 2006. Everyone knows on these benches that this is wrong and that our proposal has nothing to do with the 2006 proposal. The latter consisted of a ceiling of EUR 200 net per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u52	There you go! All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u53	You will understand that, in the context of a decline in purchasing power, a proposal capped at 200 net euros per year is derisory in relation to our desire to take over 200 net euros per month, exempt from employer contributions and income tax for workers. We know how to count, much better obviously than the majority: 200 euros a year is not quite the same as 200 euros a month! You also referred to the current measures relating to transport costs. They do exist. Do you know the ceiling? It is 50 per cent for public transport. So, when you live in Paris, half of the Navigo card can be taken care of, which is very good, but when you live in Aurillac or Romorantin-Lanthenay, the coverage is capped at 200 euros per year. I repeat this before the national representation and for those who listen to us: 200 euros a month and 200 euros a year, it is not the same! You also suggested that our proposal be aimed at opposing rural areas to urban areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u54	You do it all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u55	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You know very well that it is the opposite. We are totally committed to the unity of the territory, and you know very well that it is, alas, your majority who, week after week, month after month, divides the French, which we deeply regret. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Suffer to listen to the contradiction, it will do you a lot of good! We repeat, with the calmness of those who know what is happening, that with all the opposition groups, we are very much in favour of maintaining transport aids for those who live in the big cities. But how can you justify that a resident of Aurillac or Romorantin does not have the same rights as a resident of Paris? The unity of the Republic, the territories and the French rests on equal rights. It is not legitimate that 70% of our compatriots, that is, the 20 million French people who use their cars to go to work, are, for the most part, not supported by public transport policies. Finally, you took advantage of your interventions to give yourself, by applying a kind of Coué method, to an identical litany on the presumed increase in purchasing power that our compatriots might contemplate. However, a deputy cannot say, without having a problem of conscience, that he regularly hears compatriots asking him to thank the Government on the grounds that their purchasing power has increased since 1 January last. Nobody believes it! Everyone sees that this is exactly the opposite: you have created 4.5 billion euros of new taxes and taxes, and you have increased the CSG. I am thinking, at this moment, of this couple of pensioners in which everyone earns 1000 euros, and who will be subject to an increase in the CSG of 444 euros in 2018. I am thinking of those who drive with a diesel vehicle and those who heat themselves up in fuel oil, who will see their purchasing power heavily burdened by the policy that you have implemented. Everyone knows that, alas, purchasing power has been declining in our country for several months or even years, contrary to what you say.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u56	With the rise in value added tax, purchasing power would have fallen further!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u57	You have tried to ease the concerns of the five opposition groups by responding that you have organized the National Mobility Assembly – we are now waiting for the Global Mobility Assembly! –, but your answers are so absurd: telework, electric bike, carpooling. But do you think for a second that I can look our fellow citizens and the people of my constituency in the eye by advising them to use a bike or to use carpooling if they have to travel thirty, forty, or fifty kilometers to go to work? It's a clear lack of common sense! Our proposal is rooted, connected, common sense, concrete, and expected by an overwhelming majority of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u58	They didn't all vote for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u59	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We have only one question to ask, at this moment, to those who, for many months, have been constantly repeating to us, Mr. President, this pretty word of "constructive": when will the presidential majority, the Government and Mr. Macron finally prove constructive?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u60	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u61	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République en route a motion to reject beforehand pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the context of this bill, I invite you to go back a little bit. I'll press where it hurts a little bit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u63	You're going to talk about 2006 again!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u64	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In 2006 actually
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u65	You have to live with your time!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u66	Don't worry, I live with my time! In 2006, I said, the Villepin Government had created a transport cheque to counter the effects of fuel increases on employees' purchasing power. He was modeled on the ticket-restaurant model. This transport cheque was purchased by the company and sold to employees, defied and exempt from social security charges. The company therefore assumed part of the employee's transport from his home to his work. For individual transport, the amount covered was not EUR 200, but EUR 100 per year. Implemented on 1 January 2007, this measure was a terrible fiasco.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u67	The context was different!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u68	On October 26, 2007, an article in the newspaper Le Monde said: "Designed a year ago, the transport cheque is not used anywhere. None of these cheques have ever been issued. The scheme will then be abandoned by the government to which Laurent Wauquiez belonged, who is your party president, the rapporteur. Six years later, in 2012, the same president tabled a bill to introduce a fuel security for employees. This bill has never been placed on the Orders of the Day. That is to say all the interest that this political group had in the matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u69	You've already said all this!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Six years later, in 2018, you again propose to create a fuel ticket, arguing that you want to restore purchasing power to the French. If, in twelve years, the cheque has become a "title" before becoming a "ticket", the measure is always the same. It is an old bad recipe that you come out when you're running out of real good innovative ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u71	What an originality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u72	Your political manoeuvre, which consists in making the French believe that on the one hand there are urban and, on the other hand, rural people,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u73	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u74	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] ... on the one hand those who have purchasing power and on the other those who have less, on the one hand those who use soft public transport and on the other those who drive with their individual vehicle, aims to break up our society, to promote individualism and to create rivalries. All of this, if you achieve your goals, gives rise to democratic tomorrows that are more than obscrusive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u75	Have you read the results of the last by-elections?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u76	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Contrary to what you say, Mr. Rapporteur, this Government has taken measures in favour of purchasing power, in particular that of employees. I would like to point out the increase in the activity premium, the reduction in the housing tax for 80% of households and the reduction in social contributions, which have improved the purchasing power of employees and that of 75% of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u77	These are concrete measures!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u78	I am also thinking of the upgrading of the minimum old age and the allowance for adults with disabilities, the support for modest families, the increase in the family supplement, the upgrading of the family support allowance for single-parent families and the increase in the maximum amount of childcare assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u79	What about the decline in the early childhood care benefit? What about the rise in the CSG?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u80	[["You refused it this morning! » on the benches of the LR group]] And we will go further, since the exemption from overtime charges is a campaign commitment of the President of the Republic. We will do so by 2020. Your bill calls for further comments from us. First of all, you seem to be ignoring the fact that devices already exist. Today, an employer can cover all or part of the cost of fuel or powering electric or hybrid vehicles for travel between the usual residence and the workplace. The payment is exempt from income tax and any social and employers' contributions, up to a maximum of EUR 200 per year per employee. In addition, an employer may choose to cover the transport costs of its employees as a professional expense, on the basis of kilometric allowances defined according to a scale established by the tax administration. Secondly, the broad consultation conducted during the Mobility Assembly should feed into the mobility guidance law, which will be presented by the end of this year. Among the main measures proposed to reduce territorial inequalities, the competence of the regions will be extended to all mobilitys and will become the organising authority for regional mobility. Departments, several public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – or several municipalities will be able to pool their technical teams in the field of mobility, and the State will financially support the engineering of the territories. With regard to transport in rural areas, one of the tracks will be to set up bus lines for those who will work in large cities through the motorway and lead to a railway station. Road and rail networks will have to be connected in order to create a smooth chain from one mode of transport to another through efficient multimodal hubs. Roads already exist, especially on the A10. Others can be created to develop public transport, but also carpooling. Finally, the future law will organize the provision of data for all modes of transport, not only public but also private, and will accompany companies, communities and associations to bring about the emergence of new technologies related to clean, autonomous, connected and shared mobility. In this context, I can only encourage you to take part in these debates by being active and by proposing innovative and effective solutions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, you expect companies to be able to deduct their contribution from their transportation payments. This represents a real loss of profits for the State and communities, as well as a very bad environmental sign for the development of public transport. Those who are elected locals know that very well. Thus, you undress Peter to dress Paul by taking out payments for public transportation to finance individual travel. For example, I can mention the case of Metz Métropole, of which I am an elected member, which I mentioned in the Committee on Social Affairs. The transport payment for 2018 amounts to 44 million euros. If the community were completely deprived of the transport contribution of non-residents, which accounted for 26% of the jobs, the loss of profits would be EUR 11 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u81	You're talking about a metropolis!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u82	Two thirds of the municipalities in this metropolis are in rural areas. Even if, by way of an amendment tabled for the sitting, you repaint your bill with a little green by favouring carpooling, your measure belongs to the past. It is not part of the objectives of COP21 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Contrary to measures that encourage the use of bicycles in travel, the replacement of petrol or diesel vehicles by hybrid or electric vehicles, this bill encourages the French to bring out their good old polluting car, on the pretext that they have no choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u83	They really don't have a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u84	We prefer to help and encourage the French to develop more virtuous and environmentally friendly practices. As part of the Government's climate plan presented last July, a conversion premium has been introduced to allow for a large-scale transition from the French fleet to cleaner vehicles, but above all, as far as we are concerned, to vehicles that consume less fuel. This scheme is particularly targeted at the least fortunate households, as it concerns used vehicles. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] So, rapporteur, I regret to leave you, with your'shock ticket', on the roads of demagogy, populism and pollution. And I am pleased to propose to our assembly that it be accompanied by the "chic ticket" of consistency, compliance with our commitments, and recognition of the work carried out by the transport organizing authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u85	What is the consistency of the one who was socialist before May?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u86	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u87	[[At 15:55, Ms Carole Bureau-Bonnard replaced Mr Yves Jégo in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u88	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u89	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Unfortunately, we will not agree on the substance, even if you will allow me, on behalf of the various opposition groups, not to accept that you use the term "populist" to qualify an incredibly popular measure. We are tens of millions waiting for concrete measures to promote purchasing power and territorial equality. You have, and this is your right, decided to initiate a policy of declining purchasing power, of dividing the French, and of opposition between rural territories and agglomerations. Take this choice, but don't caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u90	These are fantasies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u91	Do not caricature the opposition when it proposes to the national representation, with clarity, simplicity, calmness and serenity, incredibly concrete measures and, I repeat, popular! Secondly, if you do not agree on the substance, at least agree, in the name of democracy, that if five out of seven parliamentary groups have given a favourable opinion on a bill, then we must accept the time for debate. Your motion of rejection is a rejection of the democratic debate. We must, through speeches and the study of the articles and amendments, hear all the sensitivities of national representation. You have decided to reduce purchasing power and oppose cities and rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u92	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u93	Lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u94	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Do not continue in this way by opposing, within the Chamber, an authoritarian vision of the world and the deep listening to democracy! Your motion to reject is a rejection of the debate. Listen at least – it always does good – to the concrete and soothing voices of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u95	On the vote on the motion to reject the motion, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u96	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and Ms. Minister of Labour rise and applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all of you, I welcome a Swedish delegation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u97	We resume the discussion of the bill to increase purchasing power through the creation of a fuel ticket.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u98	In the explanations of vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection, the floor is for Mr Stéphane Viry, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u99	One motion of rejection, one more! It has been understood that the majority systematically opposes the proposals for legislation emanating from the oppositions of this House in order to rule out them. It is now a marker of your majority, Madam Minister! Moreover, I welcome your presence with us this afternoon. You plead for access to work for all. But moving, going and coming to work is not only a necessity, but a cost for every employee using his personal vehicle! Alternative solutions, such as public transport, are not accessible everywhere and by all. Mobility is a necessity for work. This morning, as a few moments ago, we were opposed to the National Mobility Assemblies in response to the bill. We have also been opposed to the existing devices, which everyone agrees are very largely suppletive and accessory, and in any case not legible and easy to use. On the contrary, the proposed law contains practical and concrete measures of immediate and effective implementation. No one can deny that the price of fuel has increased substantially in recent months. In addition, the bill provides nothing but the right to try.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u101	It is a right to experiment for two years. If the proposed measure is useful for employees, if it can bring them back purchasing power and if it has no detrimental consequences, I do not understand the desire not only to rule out the debate, but also to refuse the right to test. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I do not understand the answers given to us, which are based on general principles and above all obstruct the test of a measure favourable to the purchasing power of the men and women in this country, who are in great need of it. That is why we oppose the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u102	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u103	To read the explanatory memorandum of the text, the purchasing power of the French would be unchanged or even decreasing since the beginning of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u104	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u105	Do I have to remind you that many increases, whether actual or future, deserve to be welcomed? Here are some of them: the minimum age increases,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u106	Thirty euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u107	... the income of active solidarity increases, the premium of activity increases,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u108	CSG's on the rise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u109	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... the allowance for adults with disabilities is increasing and will continue to increase, the basic amount of the education allowance for the disabled child is increasing, and the school-rearing allowance paid in August is increasing. To these increases should be added the effects of the recovery of the economy on the purchasing power of the French as well as the reductions in contributions for all employees and the abolition of the housing tax. The proof is, it seems to me, that improving the purchasing power of our compatriots is a priority of this majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u110	She should be!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u111	In any case, the bill does not answer the question of the purchasing power of households, let alone the problem of the mobility of our citizens in rural areas. In essence, the lack of a financial assessment prevents us from knowing its impact on public finances, even though our country must meet its European commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u112	And the removal of the housing tax, you know the impact?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u113	In addition, several existing schemes allow the employer to cover all or part of the fuel costs incurred by its employees to go to work. Therefore, the creation of a fuel ticket seems redundant. We could perhaps consider strengthening the existing mechanism after carrying out its evaluation. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Above all, you are proposing a mechanism to encourage the use of cars, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Republicans. In its present form, this is neither the future of transport nor the mobility of the future in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u114	We can't do without it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u115	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] As you will understand, the members of the MODEM and related group will not support the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u116	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u117	I will repeat what has already been said, but it is a reality – indeed, it is hot at a time when the Government is presenting a constitutional reform! The truth lies in your actions, dear friends and colleagues of the La République group on the move, in particular the systematic refusal to debate any bill that does not come from your benches. This becomes unbearable, regardless of the substance of the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u118	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u119	We do not fully agree with the texts presented and therefore propose amendments. We want to debate, because we believe that the exchange of arguments has something fruitful and may open the possibility of improving things. You have, on the contrary, since the beginning of this Parliament, since a bill does not come from the group. The Republic on its way, wherever it comes from, you have only one reaction: rejection – to such an extent that we wonder what the days like this are for: what are we playing at? It's getting boring, and almost grotesque!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u120	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u121	[[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We're in a play where we're going to make it look like we're going to debate texts that you're systematically rejecting, whatever the subject! Beyond the words you use, there is an illustration of the reality of the fate you have in Parliament: on the move or die, the final point! [[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] In substance, there was much to be said, in particular on improving carpooling and the take-over of the fuel ticket by employers and on the possibility of reducing the distances between home and work. I will say no more, for lack of time, but beyond the substance of the text, the way in which you conceive the debate and the exchanges between majority and opposition poses a constitutional problem. It's getting really boring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u122	The next speaker is Mr Yannick Favennec Becot, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u123	As we have indicated in previous niches in Parliament, we have a disagreement in principle with motions for rejection or referral to committees almost systematically voted by the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u125	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We wish to conclude the discussion of the text. We share the alarming situation in some of our territories, particularly in rural areas. The proposed scheme is clearly perfectable and we wish to assess its positive points and weaknesses. As a result, the members of our group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u126	The next speaker is Mr Laurent Pietraszewski, for the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u127	A word of form, first. I have heard some cartoons emanating from the benches of the right and left in constitutional matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u128	Truths, more like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u129	He's an expert talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u130	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] It is true that most of us are neo-MPs and have a lot to learn from previous practices, including the blocked vote that was used, from 2009 to 2012, by the opposition that is now promulgating and which was then the majority. No doubt its members have been victims of amnesia since then!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u131	Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u132	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As for the practices that had taken place in the previous quinquennium, they were hardly better. If it is interesting to criticize, it is good, ladies and gentlemen, to have a little memory!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u133	He was an archivist, in an earlier life!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u134	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] In substance, I will reply to Mr Corbière that the debate is not grotesque. It is all the less so, dear colleague – but you weren't there, I understand you didn't realize it. Listen to me, colleagues! It is the exercise of democracy and it will change you! In committee, the debate took place and we discussed the substance of the text very broadly. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You want us to debate fully the bills that you are tabling, colleagues in the Republican Group. Why not? We'd have to drop one off, not four! By filing four, you visibly assume that it cannot be debated in substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u135	Respect democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u136	And on the bottom, what do you have to say?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u137	So you could adopt another political strategy, unless you immediately assume that your bills are mere lines of communication. This is probably where the answer lies! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I confirm that the members of the Group of the European People's Party will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, for the reasons very well set out by our colleague, Mr Belhaddad.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u138	There's France! The House is no use! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u139	Please, Congressman! You've just arrived! Sit down! I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u140	Consequently, the bill is rejected and there is no need to proceed to the solemn vote decided by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u141	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u142	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u143	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Gilles Lurton and others to assign the combatant's card to soldiers recruited in Algeria after the Evian Accords, from 2 July 1962 until 1 July 1964 (No. 232 corrected, 820).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u144	Mr Gilles Lurton, rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u145	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, Mr President of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to discuss a matter which affects the honour of France and its duties towards those whom it has called to serve. I have told you in committee that it is not without a certain emotion that I am defending this bill aimed at assigning the combatant's card to soldiers hired in Algeria between 2 July 1962 and 1 July 1964. Today, by adopting this proposal, our Assembly can put an end, collectively and unanimously, to an injustice that has been going on for too long. I will not return this afternoon to the history of the combatant's map or that of the Algerian conflict. My report deals extensively with these issues and our debates in committee have allowed them to be discussed at length. I will merely recall that, in accordance with the Evian agreements, France maintained a military presence on Algerian territory beyond 2 July 1962 and until 1 July 1964. During this period, several hundred French soldiers died for France: 535 were counted. I have here a list of their names and the conditions of their death. To their brothers in arms who had returned alive, the Nation granted only partial recognition, since they could not be given the fighter's card. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish, as far as I am concerned, to make this question a subject of political opposition. For several years, parliamentarians from all walks of life have tabled bills to allow these former soldiers to be awarded the combatant's card. On each occasion, successive governments have opposed non-receivable aims, stressing the need to deepen the topic. But what more needs to be studied?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u147	Madam Secretary of State, I believe in your sincerity when you say that you want to move this issue forward, be assured. But what is the deadline? [[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] In committee, members of the majority objected to me that "a few years remained" before the end of this quinquennium to take action. Ladies and gentlemen, I say this without intent to argue: such a position is not acceptable! The last military personnel on Algerian territory were demobilized in 1964, fifty-four years ago. Among the soldiers involved, the youngest – I say the youngest – are currently seventy-five years old. They will therefore have eighty at the end of this term of office. We owe them respect; Respect is not to make them wait more! What interest is there in waiting for and constantly repelling the measures imposed by justice, equality and respect due to those who have fulfilled their duty to appeal and on behalf of France? If we continue this way, we will grant them the status of a veteran, but posthumously! The second argument that I was opposed to rejecting this bill concerns the number of potential beneficiaries of the combatant's card. I do not wish, as I said, to go into these considerations: in my view, this is a matter of principle and not of volume. However, I would like to point out that the veterans' associations, gathered at the initiative of your cabinet, the Secretary of State, all agree on the figure I mention in my report. Since 2001, military personnel recruited after 2 July 1962 may obtain the recognition of the Nation; 36000 requested and received it. Since 2014, those who have been deployed continuously before and after July 2, 1962 may be awarded a "horse card"; 12,000 asked for it and received it. Thus, a simple subtraction leads us to estimate to about 24,000 people the potential number of beneficiaries. I know the figures put forward by successive governments, which aim to paralyze any initiative because of an supposed exorbitant cost. In fact, I repeat this here after I said it in committee, no matter how many soldiers are involved! Are we ready to admit that these men have served our nation at the risk of their lives? Were we engaged in such pre-apothecary calculations when it came to granting veterans status to members deployed in OPEX? The answer is clearly no! We decided that all military personnel engaged in outside theatres would benefit from this status as long as they met the criteria. The number of potential beneficiaries was never a criterion. It's happy – I know that everyone here is convinced of it. Whether the military members covered by this bill are 2, 200, 20,000 or 40,000, the only question we need to answer is whether France should recognize them as veterans. Once this question of principle has been resolved, we must solve this problem today. It is already quite late, while the answer makes consensus on all the benches. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you regularly refer to the commitments made by your candidate during the presidential campaign. That is very commendable, and I fully respect that attitude. But let us then help you realize one of these commitments! Candidate Macron had committed himself in writing to the associations in favour of such an evolution. I note in passing that the current Minister of Public Action and Accounts, Mr.Darmanin, introduced a similar bill in 2012 when he was a Member of Parliament. On all the benches here we interviewed successive governments and on all the benches, I admit, we failed at some point. Let us not repeat the mistakes of the past. I fully understand that we still need to provide some financial estimates. I have estimated the cost of the measure at EUR 18.7 million. The Government is making much higher advances; But, once again, government statistics are to be taken with great caution. For example, military personnel who have already obtained the map for other conflicts or their presence in North Africa before July 2, 1962. And since, since this morning, you have refused all our proposals on the sole ground that we have managed them on the price of tobacco, I will propose that you delete Article 3 of this text to finance this measure in a cost-effective way for the State. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would like to remind you that, under the 2018 Finance Bill, the non-Title 2 appropriations for the Veterans Affairs, Memory and Nation Relations programs have been frozen to the tune of 3%. This reserve therefore amounted to approximately EUR 73.8 million. The lifting, at least in part, of this reserve could be used perfectly to finance the cost of extending the benefit of the fighter's card. The mobilisation of the appropriations put in reserve would be fiscally virtuous. It would not create an additional burden for the State, since these appropriations are immediately available. There is no need to create a new tax to dispose of resources; The operation would be neutral for the state budget, Madam Secretary of State. I'm taking a nice thorn out of your foot!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u148	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u149	Finally, if this can reassure the authorities in charge of public accounts, I will stress a sad reality. Given the age of the beneficiaries, the solidarity of the nation will unfortunately not represent a long-term effort for the State budget. We do so every year, because because of what is agreed to be called "the natural attrition of the number of beneficiaries", the budget of the mission "Veterans, memory and ties with the Nation" unfortunately decreases every fiscal year by several tens of millions of euros. I therefore invite, with great humility, the majority to align their statements with their actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u150	"They have rights over us," said Clemenceau!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u151	The candidate and then President Emmanuel Macron, the leaders of the majority, our parliamentary colleagues have reminded us enough: the majority wants to go beyond partisan divisions and has committed themselves to supporting all the good ideas, wherever they come from. The text that I propose offers you the opportunity to give substance to this beautiful commitment. Do not reject it on the sole ground that it is proposed by the opposition! If you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, had tabled this text, you would naturally have adopted it. As Jean-Jacques Ferrara pointed out in committee, the opposition would also have voted for it. Without committing myself on behalf of my colleagues on my left, I think I can even say that all the oppositions would have voted for it. On the other hand, and as André Chassaigne rightly pointed out during the debates in committee, adopting this text would be a strong sign and would encourage us to step out of an approach that is often too partisan of parliamentary niches. Do not fall into the ways you strongly denounce and adopt this text! In conclusion, I would like to say a word about the motion for referral to committee that had been announced at the committee meeting, by the first speaker – before, therefore, we were able to debate the substance! This is rather nasty and, unfortunately, it is a good sign of the diversion of this procedure by the majority, when it comes to opposition initiatives. This motion, which some are about to support, is both incomprehensible and shocking. Let us not lie to those former called or engaged, to the veterans' associations and, more broadly, to the French: it is only a procedural artifice that aims not to debate again in committee – we will never do so, and you know it perfectly – but to bury this bill. I call on all Members of Parliament who support our veterans, all our veterans, including those who are not yet recognized as such, to reject the motion for referral to committee. And I know that there are many of them, including in the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] Let us have the courage, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this bill unanimously. Let us recognize now all those who have done their duty to France. It'll be far too late already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u152	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u153	We're gonna need arguments, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u154	We're not mobilising credits or the majority, apparently!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u155	Systematic rejection is not a comfortable position!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u156	It's indefensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u157	First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr Lurton, and the whole House. We are all attached to the fighting world – all here, on all benches, have demonstrated it over the decades. The fighting world needs to hear this attachment and our will for recognition, and sometimes reparation. I have noted your comment on the inability of previous majorities to adopt the measure you propose. I remind you that I undertook before you, during the examination of the last finance law, to exercise pragmatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u158	You're going to show us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u159	As a field elected woman, I used to act in a pragmatic and simple way. Pragmatism requires studying all the demands of the fighting world, which have been made for many years – you will agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u160	You said that last October!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u161	This evaluation work is carried out by the departments of the Ministry – the General Secretariat of Administration, the Directorate of Legal Affairs, the Directorate of Financial Affairs, the Directorate of Pensions, etc. – in consultation with associations in order to determine the mechanisms most likely to lead to the repair and recognition they expect. This work is under way. The associations of the fighting world are gathered to work on the map of the combatant 1962-1964 as well as on other subjects – including military disability pensions – that have been the subject of their long-standing claims. At the end of this work with the associations, my intention was to seek national representation in order to move forward, in a pragmatic and concerted manner, with the agreement of the minister responsible for the budget, who is responsible for the balance of public accounts. My method is summarized as follows: listen, study and move forward together on this important subject. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] I repeat my commitment to the veterans I meet regularly – whether they are national associations, or local and departmental associations when I travel on the ground. These associations are waiting for further recognition, but they are very pleased that Members of Parliament, of all political sensitivities, are listening to them and eager to respond to their requests. I wish, like you, to advance this issue as well as those corresponding to the other demands of the fighting world, knowing that we will not be able to move them all forward, of course, otherwise the previous majorities would have done so for a long time. In my view, the policy requires reviewing the files before making responsible decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u162	So far, we agree, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u163	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] However, I am not in a position today to take up your figures, honourable Member, because, as you said, the figures vary according to the associations, according to the parliamentarians who make amendments every year, and – I am not afraid to say – according to the state services.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u164	That's not reassuring!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u165	The very fine study that we are trying to carry out will make it possible to get as close as possible to reality. It is important before a decision is made and a law is passed to know all the impacts – in this case, the number of beneficiaries and the cost to the state budget. I ask you to understand this situation. I am committed to this work, and I wish to pursue it with each of you. The fighting world is getting older, it's true. But we are at a turning point: new veterans are entering the ranks. The application for the 1962-1964 Veteran Card is part of an approach of fairness that I am sensitive to. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr rapporteur, your proposal for a law is interesting, but it is far too premature in terms of the policy we intend to implement in favour of the fighting world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u166	Most of the people concerned are over eighty years old! We can't wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u167	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Those who have exercised responsibilities know, we only make decisions when we know where we are going. I would like everyone to understand that the Government is trying to reform, but knowing where it is going.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u168	In the general debate, Mr Claude de Ganay spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u169	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Algerian war officially ended on 2 July 1962. This did not mean the end of the fighting or the immediate departure of our troops from Algerian territory. From 1962 to 1964, several tens of thousands of French soldiers were still present in Algeria; 535 of them will find death there in the last, particularly violent, subjugations of a conflict that hastened to be occupied in the metropolis. Those who remained in Algeria after 2 July 1962 are combatants, for they experienced the troubles of the end of the war. The latter, from the point of view of the intensity of the fighting, have nothing to envy to our toughest commitments – it represents ten times more deaths in two years than during our long and difficult engagement in Afghanistan. While this bill is supported by the entire combatant world, the majority and its satellites claim that it is difficult to estimate the number of eligible former military personnel, and hence the costs involved. Our excellent colleague Gilles Lurton rejected this objection with the usual rigour: if very high figures circulate, most are vague estimates. In addition, a number of soldiers deployed after 1962 are already entitled to the combatant's card because of their participation in the Second World War or in the wars in Indochina, Korea and Algeria before July 2 – on average, 20,000 to 25,000 people are mentioned. But that's not the most important thing. Here, first and foremost, there are principles with which we cannot compromise. Moreover, the amounts mentioned are far from a danger to the balance of public accounts. During the discussions in committee, the members of the majority affirmed that this bill was premature, because they bet, in a word, that the President of the Republic will remedy this injustice before the end of his term of office. Well, I bet that if we continue not to solve this problem, it will settle itself, because, in order to employ euphemism, the population concerned will not go by increasing. There comes a time when the desire to attract the favors of opinion must be wiped out in the face of the urgency of our duty. The younger members of the former military are over seventy years old. I am sure that everyone agrees on the need to act quickly. Beyond the urgency, there is also a question of principle. We took too long to recognize the rights of these soldiers. It has been too long since the Republic neglected its duties towards this part of the fighting world, which is a real injustice. They are entitled to the same treatment as their comrades. The last argument I heard was a repeat of the Sempernel "but it wasn't done before". Getting rid of others from one's own shortcomings is certainly skillful, but rather petty. The context, ten years apart, is different. Moreover, on the part of those who carry a reformist speech, such a response is disappointing not only for the quality of the parliamentary debate, but also for the fighting world that expects a lot of you. Despite the creation of the so-called horse map and the possibility for those deployed after July 2, 1962 to be awarded the title of recognition of the Nation, it is a matter of going further and matching the law and the facts, namely the participation of young soldiers in real war missions. The Republican Group has always supported the fighting world, as evidenced by the inclusion of our colleague's bill on the agenda of our own-initiative parliamentary sitting. When we were in the majority, we had taken concrete steps for the rights of veterans. I am thinking in particular of the combatant's retirement point or the differential allowance. Our support for veterans, even years after the end of conflict, must be commensurate with their commitment: unwavering, uncompromising and uncompromising. They did not postpone the protection of the Nation and the defence of our rights! "They have rights over us": this formula, so repeated that it has become, for some, an ecclesiastical slogan, over which the economies of candlesticks prevail, is nevertheless one of the foundations of the bond between the army and the Nation. It is a sign of the awareness, at the end of the Great War, of the sacrifices of those who defend French society. The soldiers of yesterday's wars and those who fight today are not mercenaries. What they want, in return for their commitment to the ultimate sacrifice, is the honours they deserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u170	Please close, Congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u171	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The minister of armies, in an interview she gave in January to the newspaper Libération, had this beautiful formula: "There are those who risk their lives for their country, and the others". Let us finally give the first what is due to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u172	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u173	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the national representation is now called upon to speak on Mr Gilles Lurton's proposal for a law to allocate the combatant's card to soldiers hired in Algeria following the Evian agreements between 2 July 1962 and 1 July 1964. Beyond the importance of this map for veterans who have operated in Algeria, I would like first of all to reiterate and commend the constant concern and interest of our group in the world of veterans. The Secretary of State made a clear statement on the subject before the national representative not only during her hearing in the context of the review of the 2018 finance bill but also in plenary session. The work for veterans is moving forward: several working groups have been set up, one of which deals more specifically with the combatant's map for the years 1962 to 1964; All the relevant services of the Ministry of Armed Forces have been mobilized to establish the truth of the figures and finally to provide a concrete assessment of the cost of the measures requested by the associations. They are fully associated with this work and, to my knowledge, recognize the Government's willingness to move forward quickly and to establish indisputable facts, to put an end to the battle of numbers once and for all. So, what can we say about this bill as it stands? First, the Government undertook, shortly after it came to power and as soon as the 2018 Finance Bill was considered, to address the issue. On no occasion did the executive object to the idea of assigning the combatant's card to former French soldiers hired in Algeria after the Evian accords – know that, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u174	Then we have to go!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u175	There is now unanimity on this issue, which did not exist in the past. Secondly, I would like to point out that this subject is old and that, so far, none of the successive governments have really made any progress in solving the problem. Mr Lurton and the promoters of this text belong to a political party which, despite several years in power, has done no better than the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u176	That's not true! We've re-aligned the clue point!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u177	The proof, we're acting today!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u178	But the past is the past: think more about what is now possible. How, then, can we attribute the combatant's card, to which a number of rights, including pension rights, are associated, even though neither the associations nor the State are now in a position to provide the real, indisputable number of potential beneficiaries? Indeed, there remains a significant gap between the figures given by the associations – and included in this bill – on the one hand and those provided by the Bercy administration on the other. Veterans' associations are willing to acknowledge this inaccuracy. Refinement, census and flattening is therefore essential before any action is taken. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us give the office of the Secretary of State and all the services working in liaison with associations the time to draw up a true estimate of the cost of this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u179	You've been in office since September!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u180	As members of the nation, demanding and responsible, we cannot legislate without knowing precisely the number of beneficiaries and the final cost of the measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u181	We'll have the encryption in 20 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u182	It is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen: reliable and consolidated figures must be used to make an informed decision. Indeed, at a time when budgetary constraints require government authorities to make public finance choices, it is necessary to act conscientiously, methodically and accurately. In addition to these two factors – political and budgetary –...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u183	Especially budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u184	... which could explain these procrastinations, I should like to note that this measure also raises diplomatic problems with Algeria.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u185	So what? It's not Algeria that decides!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u186	Let us understand: I did not ignore the importance of the service that these former French soldiers have rendered to France. Article 1 of the Act of 24 March 2005 on the general status of military personnel states: "The military state requires in all circumstances a spirit of sacrifice, which can go as far as the supreme sacrifice". Called yesterday or hired today, the military thus put their lives at the service of the nation, and that is what underpins the right to recognition and reparation that irrigates all the provisions of the Code of Military Disability Pensions and War Victims. The action of French soldiers present in Algeria between 1962 and 1964 must of course be acknowledged. There is a right to recognition and reparation for both these soldiers and those who fought in Algeria before the Evian Accords. In substance, therefore, we agree with the content of this bill. We regret, however, that it is being presented on a temporary basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u187	On the other hand? Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u188	When it comes from us, it's always on the wrong side!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u189	Dozens of bills have been tabled by parliamentarians on this subject. Like his predecessors, the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, stated in writing to the veterans' associations that he was in favour of this measure. On the other hand, perhaps more than his predecessors, he had given substance to that commitment by asking the Government, the Secretary of State, to be precise, to put all the demands of the veterans' associations to a standstill so as to provide precise and realistic answers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u190	To the Saint-Glinglin!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u191	From this point of view, no one explains or justifies the desire to act with haste. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement would also like to commend the Government's method, which is based on the seriousness of the figures and is constantly seeking consultation with the associations. As you know very well, Mr rapporteur, the Government has also planned to involve parliamentarians in this work in a second phase. By presenting this bill so quickly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u192	That's our right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u193	Gérald Darmanin had filed the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u194	... you short-circuit this useful and, above all, necessary process. All the more so since, as I recall, the associations on which you rely and which you seek to satisfy – I have no doubt – are involved in the working groups set up by the Ministry of Armed Forces. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I therefore propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we allow the Government to do this census work calmly and to meet with us when we consider the next finance bill in order to vote on this measure and to give these veterans, with full knowledge of the facts, the full recognition due to them. Accordingly, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u196	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u197	The veterans thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u198	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u199	First of all, I welcome the work of the rapporteur, who once again highlighted the notable injustice faced by some French soldiers who were engaged in Algerian territory between 3 July 1962 and 1 July 1964. Let me recall a quote from the Roman Senator Seneca, who, I believe, is particularly welcome in this debate, particularly after your speech, the Secretary of State: "The greatest damage in life is to postpone. The biggest obstacle to life is waiting, which suspends itself the next day and ruins today. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u200	Not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u201	Today it is up to us to find a happy way out of this legal flaw – if not this legal vacuum – which undermines the equality, fairness and dignity of our veterans, to whom the nation as a whole must respect and recognize. Let us stop constantly delaying the outcome of our work, and let us finally settle this question, which, in the light of the discussions in committee, has demonstrated its consensual character and its ability to transcend political divisions, as evidenced by the fact that no amendments have been tabled. Everyone, I believe, has been able to recognise an ambiguity in the method of assigning combatant status and the somewhat questionable nature of the deadline for attribution, set by the legislator on 2 July 1962. The executive itself stressed the limitations of this mechanism and, in April 2017, the President of the Republic, then in the election campaign, declared himself "in favour of the allocation of the combatant's map to the soldiers deployed in Algeria between 3 July 1962 and 1 July 1964". This bill, defended by our colleagues in the Republican Group, is part of the logical continuity of the approach of many parliamentarians who, regardless of their political sensitivity, wanted to remedy this differential but unjustified treatment. This work, which has been constantly rejected, ladies and gentlemen, even buried or abandoned, has, however, been largely encouraged by the fighting world as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u202	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u203	Of course, this is not about rewriting history. This is not our role, especially since, on such a sensitive and inevitably diplomatic subject, we must proceed with caution not to awaken old passions. The 1962 Evian Accords, signed between the French and Algerian governments, officially put an end to the Algerian war, turned a dark page in our common history and paved the way for the independence of a country that has since become a major partner of France. However, these historic agreements, the political and legal scope of which remains unquestionable, have, from an operational point of view, marked not the beginning of peace but rather the beginning of a process of exit from war. On the ground, demobilization was not immediate, and close to 800,000 French military personnel continued to be deployed, in accordance with the terms of the agreements. In a context of intense tensions, more than 500 military personnel fell in response to the mission assigned to them, namely to protect people of "European origin" and troops stationed in the territory of the new Algerian State, as well as certain goods and infrastructure. These figures are a cruel demonstration, on their own, that the criteria of "permanent insecurity" and "military risk" for the allocation of the combatant's card can and must apply to those forgotten. Paradoxically, the title of recognition of the nation has already been awarded to 35,000 of these soldiers, thus formalizing their participation in an armed conflict involving military risks. In many ways, the expectations expressed by the veterans' world are therefore perfectly legitimate. For several years, they have argued a clear difference in treatment, in the sense that no legislative framework is concerned with the specific case of these soldiers who are unrecognized for their commitment. Among the ambiguities highlighted in the explanatory memorandum to this bill, it should be recalled that the French soldiers who had served in Morocco and Tunisia, whose independences had taken place on 2 March 1956 and 20 March 1956 respectively, had the possibility of obtaining all the titles of the combatant for services until 2 July 1962, six years after the end of the fighting. It is therefore appropriate to consider the appropriateness of establishing 2 July 1962 as the deadline for the allocation of the combatant's cards. Moreover, the legislator has already implicitly recognized this inequality by introducing the card "on horseback", that is to say by granting the quality of combatant to French soldiers deployed before 2 July 1962 and mobilized beyond. Although it was a significant step, the introduction of this system into the 2014 Finance Act did not put an end to the issues relating to the recognition of the rights of military personnel engaged in this theatre of operations. The claims in this regard therefore remain perfectly legitimate. In a logical continuity and on the basis of the principle that the Algerian State was independent on 3 July 1962, other legislative vehicles granted the military members concerned the right to obtain this card. Similarly, the authors of this text propose, in a pragmatic way, that the military deployed on Algerian territory after 2 July 1962 should benefit from the provisions relating to soldiers engaged in external operations, and in the same terms and conditions as the latter. Notwithstanding the questions raised by some of our colleagues about the number of beneficiaries and the cost of the scheme, which are estimated at 24000 people and 18 million euros a year respectively, this measure would be above all a strong symbol, a hand stretched out to these former soldiers to express our gratitude and assure them that France has not forgotten the services rendered to it. For potential beneficiaries, it is also the assurance that their commitment to France will be fully recognized and, in a spirit of fairness, that this card will be issued, which gives its holders the right to benefit from the fighter's retirement and half a share of income tax from the age of 75, as well as to bear the cross of the fighter. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and NG groups]] After considering the present bill and in the light of the many similar parliamentary proceedings that have so far not been carried out, the IUD Group, Agir et indépendants, calls for the adoption of this necessary measure of fairness and dignity, which will finally remedy the unjust situation faced by thousands of former French soldiers who risked their lives for France and its nationals.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u204	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u205	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and LR groups]] Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleagues Luc Carvounas and Joaquim Pueyo indicated during the debates in committee, our group supports this proposal by Gilles Lurton. Several stages have been marked by the recognition of the role of former recruits in Algeria. First of all, obtaining the title of recognition of the nation, with the possibility to subscribe to a mutual rent and to report to the National Office of Veterans and War Victims. Second moment: the 2014 Finance Act, article 109 of which opens the allocation of the combatant's card for personnel engaged beyond July 2, 1962, provided that they were deployed before that date. This "horse riding" card therefore opened up the possibility for the National Veterans' Office to benefit from the veteran's retirement, the recognition of the nation, the creation of a mutual pension increased by the State – which benefits from tax advantages –, half of the income tax from the age of 74, the status of a national of the National Veterans' Office and the cross of the fighter. I have heard of the reluctance of the Secretary of State to grant the card to soldiers engaged between 2 July 1962 and 1 July 1964, but I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that whenever progress has been proposed for veterans – this was the case in the previous five-year period – the Government explains that this is not possible for budgetary reasons. Each time our assembly has assumed its responsibilities by voting against the Government's opinion and in favour of such progress,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u206	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u207	... because she wishes to express her gratitude to all those who committed themselves at the age of twenty to the defence of our country. This is a very important point, ladies and gentlemen, that you would benefit from emulating: show your own will, whatever the Government thinks, as we did when it came to lowering the age of half-partage from 75 to 74, which we obtained against his opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u208	In this case, why didn't you take the measure in question earlier?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u209	This text seeks to remedy what is perceived as a true injustice. The end of the current distinction between staff hired before 2 July 1962 and those who did not intervene until 1 July 1964 would be a further step towards greater equality. There are, of course, several questions that have been raised by my colleagues in committee. Some consider that to grant such recognition would be to consider the period from July 1962 to July 1964 as a phase of war. We can understand the arguments, but the facts are more complex, as the rapporteur points out. It states that the current text is not intended to treat this period as a time of "war" but rather to assess it as a moment that may be a matter of characterization of external operations, which give rise to the combatant's map. Our colleague Gilles Lurton intends to see these operations as "security and law enforcement missions in the same way as the OPEXs, which still operate in many theatres around the world." It seems to me that this clarification contained in the bill before us today should address the concerns that may arise. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Of course, Madam Secretary of State, I have heard you object to this request with respect to the financial cost. We're talking about 18 million. When one sees the number of amendments adopted by the Government without any assessment, a little modesty would be welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u210	That's a good point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u211	This EUR 18 million is to be brought back to the overall budget of EUR 2.46 billion in payment appropriations, although it is down on the previous year. Without trying to degrade the budgetary balance of the state's public finances, I believe that such an effort, if not major for public finances, is, on the other hand, from the point of view of the recognition that we want to give to these fighters. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and LR groups]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote for this bill defended by our colleague Gilles Lurton. We shall vote on it, as we voted in the finance law on the amendments to ensure that this recognition is finally effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u212	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u213	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u214	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill aims at assigning the combatant's card to soldiers employed in Algeria between 2 July 1962 and 1 July 1964. As Algeria's independence has been established, we must consider that the soldiers engaged between 1962 and 1964 were in external operation. They must therefore be able to claim the combatant's card. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Of the 80000 soldiers who served in Algeria during this period, 11,000 were recruited before and after July 2nd, but those who were recruited exclusively after that can only claim recognition of the nation. Are affected by this measure 24,000 people – which is a lot for them, and very little for the state budget. This distinction between them is perfectly arbitrary: they were in the same regiment, participated in the same missions, under the same conditions, were exposed to the same dangers, endured the same suffering, including psychological ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u215	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u216	During this period, 535 soldiers lost their lives in operation. This inequality has persisted for half a century already; It's time to put an end to it, here and now. Veterans form a large brotherly family from which thousands of members are still excluded. However, article 14 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms prohibits the different treatment of agents in identical situations, which is clearly the case here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u217	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u218	How can we not think of Colonel Chabert's figure and his suffering, so well described by Balzac? Declared dead at the Battle of Eylau, he is actually alive but unrecognizable. Returning to France, his property was dilapidated and his wife refused to recognize him, as well as the sacrifices he had made. This is what the Republic is doing today, shamefully, to soldiers engaged in this period as veterans. They have served their homeland, they have suffered, and those who have returned are not fully recognized for their commitment. The bulk of the battalions consisted of called ones who had no choice and who were sent to Algeria by successive governments. Others were hired as volunteers. All served France. They have the right to the honours due to them, like all other veterans. Having the fighter's card is not the same as the nation's recognition title. The card allows you to benefit from the fighter's retirement and other financial benefits. This financial aspect of things should not be neglected, especially in times of austerity where pensioners are already so ill-treated, especially because of the rise in the CSG, which is being felt hard for everyone. However, it is not just – and not even essentially – a financial injustice. The map is a symbolic and moral recognition of the nation for these soldiers who have been engaged for many months. It gives the right to wear the cross of the combatant, to be a national of the National Office of Veterans and War Victims and to the privilege of covering the coffin with the tricolor flag. The symbols and honours given to those who fought should not be neglected. They are essential to bear witness to the gratitude of the nation to those who serve it, and to the duty of memory. It is gratifying to note that our country shows so little appreciation for some of those who served it. I take this rostrum to draw your attention to the fate of the Afghan auxiliaries who have come to help our forces. These interpreters have played a decisive role in our operations in their country. They exposed themselves to fire, took risks, put their families at risk; Some of them have died of contributing to the success of our weapons. Today, the threat to them in Afghanistan is extremely serious. Yet, almost nothing is done to give these men and their families the protection that their commitment should have guaranteed them. They face a wall of incomprehension and inhumanity. It is not immediately within our Assembly's power to change the situation of auxiliaries, but I wanted to question you, my dear colleagues – and above all the Government – by giving one more example of the gap that may exist between the protests of patriotism and the acts of recognition actually made in favour of those who served the homeland. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] To vote on this bill would be to the credit of our assembly. It would be the least of all things to redress this injustice that has lasted for more than sixty years, and it would not be a great effort compared to what they have done for the country. If the La France group comes to defend a bill drawn from ranks clearly opposed to its own, it is that the subject requires the union of the country behind its soldiers, beyond the usual political divisions. In this complex time, when the unity of the country is too often threatened, it would be good to show the unwavering unity of national representation behind the soldiers committed to the homeland.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u219	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u220	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u221	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, following the remarks made by the chairman of my group, André Chassaigne, in the Committee on Defence and those of Fabien Roussel, Special Rapporteur on the war veterans' budget, today I express the full support of the Members of the GDR Group for obtaining the fighter card for French soldiers who arrived in Algeria the day after the declaration of independence. This is – as has been said – a recurring demand from associations and veterans, relayed every year by many of our colleagues, from all political groups. So you will understand the hope that our veterans place in this recognition, which I believe is primarily a matter of fairness. We do not deny that, after Algeria's independence, France was no longer at war in the proper sense of the word. However, I will remind you – something quite rare! – the remarks of the President of the Republic François Hollande during his speech at the memorial of the Quai Branly in 2016: "On 19 March 1962, it was not yet peace, it was the beginning of the end of the war". Indeed, it is indisputable that tensions continued after the long-awaited independence of the Algerian Republic by the Algerian people. While these soldiers have lived in this difficult climate, the French state has so far chosen not to put an end to a flagrant injustice towards those who have done their duty. Why? Would that not be to say that French fighters remained on Algerian soil after this newly acquired and hard-won independence? How can we not recognize the legitimacy of this claim, which is still not heard in 2018? That sounds amazing. The number of people affected is decreasing from day to day. Those who remain feel excluded from both moral recognition and compensation. How can I respond to that? Beyond the financial aspect – although not to be overlooked – remains a matter of justice, since all French soldiers who arrived in Algeria before 2 July 1962, like all French soldiers engaged in external operations from the 1970s onwards, enjoy or may enjoy, under conditions, the Veterans' Card. Between these two categories is thus a kind of black hole swallowing thousands of French soldiers who do not understand that this card is denied to them. This difference in treatment between military personnel is all the more shocking because, while the signing of the Evian agreements in March 1962 marked the end of the armed conflict, almost 180,000 French military personnel continued to be deployed on Algerian territory, in accordance with the provisions of the agreements. During this period, and despite the decline in the number of soldiers on the ground during those two years, nearly 535 French soldiers died. If Algeria was indeed an independent State, why not take into account the fact that French soldiers were present on Algerian territory under an agreement and therefore under an external operation? With regard to external operations, the OPEX combatant's card is assigned to members who have participated in an external operation for a period of at least 25 days. 40000 soldiers now possess it, benefiting from the same recognition and solidarity as other generations of combatants. Why would it be otherwise for our veterans who arrived after July 1962? Clearly, there is an injustice that must be redressed. It is regrettable that this particular conflict situation is still unrecognized, and it is essential that this Assembly recognize the status of veterans to these forgotten citizens of the Republic. Our fighters cannot be victims of purely budgetary or electoral considerations, even though they have simply obeyed orders. The GDR Group wishes to defend here the idea that no commercialisation of these rights or any postponement of this discussion can be accepted again. To those who arrived on Algerian soil until 1 July 1962 at midnight, the previous government had decided to assign what is called the "horse riding" card. Recently, these individuals have been entitled to recognition of the quality of veterans. Indeed, article 109 of the 2014 Finance Act, amending article L. 253 bis of the Code on Military Disability Pensions and War Victims, had the effect of extending the benefit of the Combatant's Card to military personnel who had a four-month stay in Algeria, which had begun before 2 July 1962 and extended beyond that date, without interruption. The legislator therefore implicitly acknowledged, at that time, the difficult situation in which our soldiers were in, and we must continue to do so. The argument of the Secretary of State is based on the fact that the cost of the measure is "estimated between 80 and 100 million euros, even if the scope of the persons concerned remains to be consolidated". She also explained that she wanted a "true audit of the existence and cost of new measures" to "see how to move forward during this legislature." I find it too easy to invoke the financial argument, whereas it has been more than thirty or forty years since the question was pending. After the many exchanges that have taken place in the Chamber on this subject, voices from all walks of life agree, based on the budgets for the years 2017 and 2018, that this claim could have been met for a long time. This will obviously cost some EUR 20 million a year, but our colleague Gilles Lurton points out that the financing of this measure must take account of the natural disappearance of veterans. This amount, moreover, seems to be very low in the circumstances. The fact, for example, that the military programming law we have just voted on grants EUR 14.5 million a day to the nuclear deterrence budget leaves us puzzled. In addition, the current Minister of Public Accounts, Mr.Gérald Darmanin, had himself tabled a bill on the subject in July 2012. By doing so, he intended to redress a persistent inequality between the French soldiers engaged in the fighting in North Africa between 1952 and 1964. On that occasion, he had calculated the financing of the measure and that should not be a problem for the Government. The President of the Republic himself had announced this measure in his programme, seeking the support of the fighting world. These forgotten citizens of the Republic are listening to us and waiting for us. In the interests of equality between the so-called "fire" generations, the GDR Group supports the proposal to extend the allocation of the combatant's card to French army veterans present on Algerian territory between 2 July 1962 and July 1964.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u223	It is more than time to take a new step and restore our soldiers' rights by allowing them to acquire this fighter card, as long as the conditions are met. In my view, this is an opportunity for our Parliament to redress today a blatant injustice against our soldiers, who have acted under the orders of France, without, however, benefiting from our recognition. It is therefore important, ladies and gentlemen, to reach the greatest consensus, beyond political affiliations. Similarly, Madam Secretary of State, we will have to look quickly, without waiting for the next finance bill, at the situation of widows of the great war invalids who do not receive the pension provided by your department, when this budget is included in it. The scheme, as it exists today, is poorly linked, its credits will not be consumed and 95% of these widows will not receive the fair pension due to them. I conclude my speech by drawing your attention to a fact that our veterans consider to be a lack of consideration by the nation for them, namely, the absence of a department or a department of state for veterans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u224	Indeed, we should have a dedicated State Secretariat!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u225	[[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] This absence is, in our view, detrimental to the duty of memory and gratitude to those French who, whatever the nature of the conflict in which they participated, were soldiers of France. The simple holding of this debate shows how easy it can be to forget.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u226	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u227	It's time for the "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u228	First of all, I want to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u229	It's starting well!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u230	... then commend the perseverance he has shown in defending this dossier and finally underline his role in the collective awareness of the importance of this difficult dossier. I know this subject well, for personal reasons, and I often talk about it with veterans on the occasion of commemorations in tribute to the victims of the Algerian war and the fighting in Morocco and Tunisia. To tell you everything, I am personally in favour of the allocation of the combatant's card to soldiers hired in Algeria after the Evian agreements, from 2 July 1962 until the departure of the French forces from the country. Your diagnosis is fair. Although on 2 July 1962 the date of Algeria's independence was marked, refusing to recognize, after that date, the status of combatant to the French soldiers engaged in the country represented an inequality of treatment, both with regard to the soldiers engaged before that date, and with regard to the soldiers who had fought in Morocco and Tunisia after the independences of those countries and who could benefit from the combatant's card. This debate is an old chestnut tree – if you will allow me to use the term dear to the Finance Committee, to which I belong. You will recall in your explanatory statement, Mr rapporteur, that a great many legislative proposals have already been tabled on this subject, reflecting the agreement of all political parties. The 2014 Finance Act brought a first element of response by creating the "horse riding" card, which allowed 11,000 veterans who had committed four months before the date of independence to obtain the combatant's card. We agree with you that we need to go further. Why, however, are we not in favour of the adoption of this bill as it stands? I'm going to start with what it's not: it's not a financial reason.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u231	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u232	Mrs. Secretary of State didn't say the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u233	Our majority has repeatedly demonstrated that justice measures and military matters require investment from the country. The military programming bill that we have just voted on at first reading has proven it brilliantly. We are opposed to your bill for two main reasons: firstly, for reasons of scope and timing; secondly, for a question of budgetary transparency. With regard to scheduling issues, first, the Secretary of State recalled that discussions between her Ministry and the Veterans' Associations, which had been initiated upon her arrival in charge, were still ongoing. However, there are many issues to be addressed. They should therefore be prioritized, examined with the correct methodology and, as far as possible, treated in a single legislative vehicle. With regard to budgetary transparency – I have to put my Finance Commissioner's hat back here for a moment – the fighter's card opens not only memorial and honorary rights, but also financial rights. In your bill, you estimate the annual cost of the measure at 18 million euros, but you only take into account the fighter's retirement, without including the revalorisation provided for in the 2017 Finance Act, i.e. an annuity of 750 euros per veteran.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u234	Yes, I took it into account!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u235	Other rights opened by the card should also be taken into account: reception in accommodation or retirement homes; subscription of a mutualist return increased by the State; from the age of 74, an additional half share of the family quotient. In addition, in your calculation, you estimate the number of persons concerned to 24000, subtracting from the 35,000 soldiers who have applied for and obtained the recognition of the nation the 11,000 holders of the card "on horseback", awarded as a result of the 2014 finance bill. According to other calculations, the number of people involved could amount to 75000 – the 50,000 called, plus the 25,000 mobilised – or a total cost of 56 million euros per year, which is not at all the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u236	So you have a lot of budgetary concerns!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u237	Finally, the application of the measure you are proposing would have consequences for other categories of military personnel, which requires precise, methodical and rigorous evaluation and encryption. For our majority, it is therefore essential to present budgetary measures based on realistic and sincere calculations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I very much hope, on a personal basis, and on behalf of the majority, that the extension of the combatant's card to soldiers engaged after the Evian agreements will soon be incorporated into a finance bill, after a thorough and thorough examination of the cost of the measure, and after a discussion with all veterans' associations; I am personally committed to following and defending this issue in the debates in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u238	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u239	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 June 1999, the National Assembly finally acknowledged that when we spoke of the "war of Algeria", it was not a mere expression. The "events of Algeria", the "operations of law and order", to take up expressions that have long existed, were finally recognized as belligerent, and this was an event. The Algerian chapter of French history was strongly marked by the conflict. Although the Evian accords of 18 March 1962 were sometimes still the subject of controversy, they were the highlight of a revival, not only for Algeria, which then gained independence, but also for the millions of French soldiers sent to the field. I will not teach you anything by reminding you that the clashes and – let's say the word – the fighting continued after these agreements. While the term "war" is still unrecognized for this period, this armed conflict, in which the recruits have continued to defend their homeland, still has many characteristics. Moreover, France itself officially recognised 528 deaths for France after 2 July 1962, that is, after the end of the official conflict sealed by the Evian agreements. What is a "death for France"? It is above all a title honouring the memory of the victims of war, as provided by the law of 2 July 1915. More recently, it was a decree of 25 April 2001 that granted the right of recognition to soldiers who remained in Algeria until 1 July 1964 because of the real insecurity on the ground. Has France become schizophrenic to recognize the dead for France, to award recognition of the nation, and a commemorative medal, while refusing to recognize the status of combatants to those hired after 1962? It is more than time to align the right; It is more than time to harmonise the criteria; It is more than time to ease the tensions that persist. The Republicans have always defended the fighting world, the Republicans have always wanted its commitment to be recognized. This involvement with our armed forces has led to the fulfilment of several of our commitments, such as the retirement point and the differential allowance. We will continue to engage in this. It is only justice, it is only coherence and recognition of the State towards its soldiers and their commitment to the country, to assign the combatant card to all those engaged on the ground during this difficult period, from the official end of the war in Algeria to the real end of the clashes. We are in 2018, almost twenty years after the Algerian war was recognized as such. Yet, twenty years later, some of our soldiers are still not entitled to just recognition. We cannot deny the difficulties that France has had in appreciating this war, in which it has become bogged down. But today, it's more than time to fix these oblivions. Let us assume our role as legislators to ensure that other people, whether civilians or soldiers, who have been harmed by this war do not have to fight in court to make them recognize the harm they have suffered. As recently as 8 February last, it was by the Constitutional Council that a right to a pension for civilian victims of violence during the Algerian war was openly recognized. Should we also expect our military, our civilians committed to war, to find the strength to fight against the state they have defended? The situation we are presenting today leaves no room for doubt. What term applies to people who have been asked to restore order, to fight, to defend their country? They are combatants, veterans, who did not put an end to their commitment in 1962, but who continued to serve France, to serve our country, as long as it needed it. I asked you about this myself last October, Madam Secretary of State, by means of a written question. Your reply, published on December 19, 2017, indicated your knowledge of the fact that this request was already old. If it was not one of the measures that you intended to defend under the 2018 Finance Bill, you would like to conduct a thorough study of it early in 2018. It's April. There has been enough time for this legitimate request to have been carefully studied and for finally, we parliamentarians, legislators, to restore justice and fairness. It seems almost improbable, inappropriate, that we have to discuss this issue today. The combatants have fulfilled their part of the contract: the State has to do the same. It is up to us to make our own peace to the brave because, no doubt, they have been, and they have no doubt, the right to know peace. It seemed to me important to remind each and every one of us of the importance of our history, the rewards, the reparations and the compensation it won, because if we are to act in the present, we must always consider the consequences of decisions and actions in the future. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the FI group]] Finally, I could have supported the bill of my colleague Gilles Lurton by stopping at the first sentence that I pronounced: on 10 June 1999, the National Assembly recognized the "war of Algeria". Let us hope that we can soon say: "On April 5, 2018, the National Assembly drew all the consequences of the Algerian war. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u240	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u241	What a strange story this one: fifty-six years later, the Algerian war does not seem to be over yet, at least in the memorial report we have with this event, since we are debating the status of those who risked their lives. We all agree to recognize the importance of the subject: the commitment of French, often called, who, whatever their will, their opinion, were led, from 2 July 1962 to 1 July 1964, to be on Algerian territory. Figures were given: 130,000 soldiers were involved at the beginning, 50,000 at the end. No fewer than 535 French soldiers were killed there. You can see: over twenty-four months, this represented nearly thirteen deaths a month, nearly three deaths a week, one death every two days, from 1962 to 1964. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Undeniably, the French soldiers sent there risked their lives and knew it. I do not insist on this fact to revive a historical debate on the importance of the date of 19 March 1962. We must be gathered around that date, on which the cease-fire officially takes effect. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI and LR]] We must solemnly prove the recognition of the nation. It's not a question of numbers. One of our colleagues in the running Republic Group tried to show us that despite the importance of the subject, which he did not deny, it was not yet time to legislate, by implicitly reducing us to budgetary reasons. What is more, he opposed an inadmissible argument, which I will answer that no one can avail himself of his own turpitude. In this case, it is incredible that the state services, fifty-six years after this event, are still unable to know how many people are affected. This argument is not admissible – or, refer it to Mr.Le Drian, former minister of armies. During the five years he was in business, could he not have put his services to work to find out? [["Exactly! » on the benches of the LR group]] What are you looking for? To lead to a situation of exhaustion where, for lack of fighters – if I may say so – time having done its work, there will no longer be anyone to compensate? There is an urgent need and the question of time is linked to the recognition that we give these fighters. There is no question of going fast to do wrong, but of going fast to do it, simply. Too much to delay the debate, nothing will be possible. Unless I have understood correctly, which would be annoying, that the majority is prepared to take this step, provided that they retain the initiative. That would be petty, and that would be an extra waste of time. If the majority rejects a proposal, on the pretext that it does not come out of its ranks, to take it back later on, it would be very small in terms of the stakes. We are not at the origin of this bill, which does not prevent us from judging it to be relevant. Despite all the disagreements between us and the group that is carrying it, we believe that we must act in this direction. It is all the more necessary that we live in an age in which it is a good tone to evoke patriotism, the commitment of our soldiers, to salute the courage of a man who sacrificed himself a short time ago to defend the lives of one of our fellow citizens. What were the soldiers engaged there doing, if not risking their lives, too, to defend a certain conception of their country or at least allow a young nation to attain its full sovereignty, after 130 years of colonialism? We must send strong signs, out of gratitude and respect for those who have been engaged there. My father was there, and I am part of a generation that preserves, in his child's memory, the importance of this event through the accounts made of it. The symbolic scope would be great. I would add, without any polemic, that we must not only pay tribute to our French soldiers, by assigning them the card of the fighter, but also allow the debate with our Algerian friends to continue. I take this rostrum to recall what we forget too often: today, 30,000 Algerians of Muslim faith – to use the terms of this time – who served under the French uniform without being all harkis, remained there. They've never received any recognition. Here I am opening a historic debate that could allow us, with all the consequences that it would bring, to pay tribute to them. Recent work by historians has shown us that, contrary to what was claimed, many soldiers, harkis but not only, who had served under the French uniform, did not come to France, but remained in Algeria. The French nation never paid any tribute to them. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups and on several benches of the LR group]] Important work remains to be done, but by adopting this text, we would send the very strong sign that the Algerian war is over, that the subject is soothed and no longer burning. We would pay a fair and indispensable tribute to those who risked their lives in order to defend a certain conception of the Republic and to allow a young nation to settle and to put an end to colonialism.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u242	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u243	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday 19 March, like many of you, it was in the cold of the end of winter that I joined the veterans of my constituency in Vincennes, at the old cemetery, for an important ceremony, a moment of recollection and memory for those who died for France, for those who returned wounded and wounded forever from this terrible war in Algeria. More than 300,000 Algerians lost their lives there, but it is still not possible to quantify the civilian losses of this war. At the same time, more than 25,000 French soldiers were killed and more than 65,000 wounded there. A whole generation is marked by this tragedy, on both sides of the Mediterranean. These young people participated in this war not because they wanted it, but because the political power had decided so for them and their families. After more than seven years of conflict, on 18 March 1962, the Evian agreements were signed and led to the ceasefire, which took effect the next day, on 19 March 1962, and then on the independence of Algeria, on 3 July. The presence of French soldiers on Algerian territory continued, under the agreements, until 1 July 1964. During this period, more than 500 French soldiers, called or hired, lost their lives. Between our two countries, the attachment is strong, based on human and historical ties without equivalents. Today, our two countries are working to reconcile memories and deepen their economic, cultural and security cooperation. In recent years, our bilateral relationship has gained momentum. First, with the signing of the Algiers Declaration on Friendship and Cooperation between France and Algeria by the two Presidents on 19 December 2012. Then, with the visit of the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, on 6 December 2017, who set the tone for a deeper relationship. Three messages were sent to Algerians: the shared desire to move forward together on the memorial issue, a call for a more open Algerian economy and support for cross-investments, and the desire for a relationship that meets the expectations of young people in particular. This relationship is reflected in the regular holding of high-level intergovernmental committees, the last of which was held on 7 December 2017. We must also provide special protection to those who, as soldiers, called or engaged in Algeria, sacrificed their youth and dreams for France; to those who, too young, have known the horrors of life and the darkness of humanity; to those who have seen so many of their comrades fall. To these men, the nation owes eternal recognition. These veterans, once returned to France, continued to give so much to our society, through the fabric of associations in particular. They are committed citizens, and often, with them, all their families. Here I would like to pay special tribute to them for their work in transmitting the memory they perform day after day to the younger generations. They speak of war, of course, and of its terrible reality, but also and above all of peace, its construction and the importance of doing everything possible to preserve it. For these reasons, we must pay tribute to them and stand by them. In recent years, significant efforts have been made to strengthen the rights of veterans, such as the allocation of the double campaign to North African veterans whose pensions were liquidated before 19 October 1999 and the increase in the veteran's retirement. Second, veterans and surviving spouses of veterans have all benefited, since this year, from the same method of calculating their disability pension and survivor's pension. No less than €6 million has been earmarked for this measure in the 2018 Finance Bill. In addition, as of this year we have also upgraded the recognition allowance and the lifetime pension for harkis. In the coming months, after years of discussion and in accordance with the commitment made by the President of the Republic and the Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, we will assign the combatant card to soldiers engaged in Algeria after the Evian agreements, between 2 July 1962 and 1 July 1964. The date of 2 July 1962 represents an inequitable coupet and, even though the "on horseback" card scheme, created in 2014, granted the combatant's card to nearly 11,000 former soldiers, we must go further and establish a genuine recognition of all the former soldiers who remained mobilized in Algeria until 1 July 1964. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Consideration is being given to evaluating the exact costing of this measure. Differences remain. We must implement it without resorting to tax tricks, even if changes are proposed today, and study the possible side effects of ricochet that this could lead to. It is for this reason that we wish, at the current stage of our work within the ministry, to avoid creating an inapplicable mechanism in the immediate future.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u244	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u245	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill offers us an opportunity to redress an injustice done to these servants of the nation for too long sacrificed on the altar of repentance and memorial war. It is indeed unjustified for the legislator to impose on 2 July 1962, the eve of Algeria's independence, as a caesure date after which the approximately 800,000 soldiers – 150,000, taking into account the rotations – who continued to be mobilized in that territory until 1964, in accordance with the Evian agreements, can no longer benefit from the fighter's card and the advantages they carry. Of course, since the 2014 finance law, the creation of a "horse riding" card for soldiers who had spent four months in Algeria, which had begun before 2 July 1965 and extended beyond without interruption, had improved the situation somewhat, but there was still no fighter card for those who had arrived in Algeria after 2 July, while the soldiers who had served in Morocco and Tunisia could obtain all the titles – the fighter's card, the title of recognition of the nation, the commemorative medal – until 2 July 1962, six years after their independence. However, 535 of these fighters died "for France" in Algeria, as our colleague Alexis Corbière recalled between 1962 and 1964, proof that the official "ceasefire" did not mean the actual end of hostilities and that their presence in Algeria posed a real risk to them. No one can ignore today that it was precisely from the signing of the Evian agreements, and then the referendum on Algeria's self-determination, that the violence broke out. The terrible massacre in Oran, three and a half months after the "ceasefire", scandalously forgotten of our history manuals and official ceremonies, is an example of this. Since Algeria was independent from that date, it makes sense to consider the deployment of French forces in that country as an external operation, i.e. the military presence of limited duration on the basis of a bilateral agreement, which it was indeed. Several operations prior to the Algerian war were recognized as such: Madagascar between 1947 and 1949, Cameroon between 1956 and 1958 and in June 1959 and March 1963, and Mauritania between January 1957 and December 1959. It is therefore up to the Government, by order, to complete the list of these theatres of operations to include Algeria between 2 July 1962 and 1 July 1964. It is our duty as legislator to do everything possible, as soon as possible, to ensure that the nation's recognition of the men who served it is absolutely complete. Even if this measure has a cost – modest, moreover: 16 million euros for 24000 men concerned, the amount of the fighter's retirement amounting to 674 euros per year – it meets an imperative of recognition, which all French soldiers engaged in the Algerian conflict deserve, including, of course, their harkis substitutes. Moreover, since it is a question of proposing the most just ways of redressing memorial injustices, how can we not compare this issue of former combatants in Algeria with the scandalous decision of the Constitutional Council last February, which has just extended the right to pensions for victims of violence during the Algerian war to all persons residing in the country, whether French or not? As a result, all Algerians, even if they were a veteran of the FLN, are now entitled to demand a pension from the French authorities, on the pretext that they were on French territory at the time of the damage suffered. Such a decision imposes otherwise heavier consequences on the State budget, reduced to humiliation to having to gratify its former enemies in the name of an alleged principle of equality before the law. In reality, the Constitutional Council has shown an astonishing disregard for an ancient constitutional principle, according to which "the Nation proclaims the solidarity and equality of all the French" – and of them alone! – "in front of the burdens resulting from national calamities". This is paragraph 12 of the preamble of the 1946 Constitution. For our part, we will always defend the idea that solidarity should be given priority to our compatriots. That is what we are asking you today. All in all, it was not until 1999 that the war character of "operations in North Africa" between 1952 and 1962 was officially recognized. The combatant's card is only given to the members who have participated in it since 2004. He remains the forgotten of the period from 1962 to 1964, which is referred to today. Their age is growing, time is running out, there is no question of keeping them waiting. It is by thinking of these veterans, everywhere in our constituencies – particularly in mine, in Denain, Bouchain, or Lourches – and with whom I have discussed so much, that I speak today and that I tell you that the deputies of the National Front, anxious to defend the interests of all those who have faithfully served the nation, will vote this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u246	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u247	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to thank our colleague Gilles Lurton for bringing forward this bill, which is part of a spirit of justice and equality between veterans. Justice, first of all: it corrects in fact the arbitrariness of the dates chosen by the law of 9 December 1974 conferring the status of combatant to the soldiers engaged in Algerian territory between 1 January 1952 and 2 July 1962. Equality, then, among all those who participated in the external operations in North Africa between 1952 and 1964 – those who said they had "made the AFN". The historical error, enshrined in the law, must be remedied, excluding the French soldiers engaged on Algerian soil after independence from obtaining the combatant's card. The legislator of 1974 omitted that in July 1962, to Algeria's independence, military operations had not ceased: 800,000 French soldiers were still deployed on Algerian territory, in accordance with the provisions of the Evian agreements. In July 1962, 305,000 French soldiers were still on Algerian territory and between July 1962 and July 1964, at least 535 French soldiers died for France. With the law of December 9, 1974, July 2, 1962, you have the status of a fighter, and on July 3, 1962, you no longer have it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: when you go to see the veterans in front of the monuments to the dead, they have the same medals, they wear the same flags. So are the brave fighters we are talking about, who died for France, condemned to the oblivion of collective memory because of an arbitrary decision taken forty-four years ago? Are there two categories of veterans: those whom the Republic recognizes, honours and protects descendants and spouses, and those whose memory it refuses to honour? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill should bring us together. Our colleague André Chassaigne had called for him in his speech on the veterans' budget, during the review of the 2018 Finance Bill. Madam Secretary of State, you have said that we must wait: do you not see a very unfortunate symbol in the fact that two months apart it is possible to decide to compensate Algerian civilian victims of the Algerian war, by decision of the Constitutional Council, and that the French Parliament refuses to grant French fighters the right to receive 65 euros a month?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u248	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u249	Do you understand the symbolic strength of such a telescopage, Madam Secretary of State? The adoption of this bill would send a very strong signal to the fighting world, whose budget has been declining steadily for several years. Don't tell me either that Gérald Darmanin, who made exactly the same proposal, could now object, unless he admits that the minister does not honor the debts incurred by the Member. You also stated that the cost of the measure must be calculated: does that mean that if the cost was too high, we would not pay our debt? Is that the question?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u250	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u251	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I defend the opposite position: it is not a question of cost or budget figures. You pointed out that the figures range from EUR 18 million to EUR 56 million. What is 56 million euros, Madam Secretary of State, while the budget of veterans fell in 2018 by 76 million euros? If you kept the same budget from year to year, this would be funded. The constitutional reform that the Prime Minister has presented will save, according to my calculations, some 41 million euros. Well, let French parliamentarians offer this 41 million euros if the Government is not able to find a cash fund to finance a measure that will not weigh very heavily in the state budget. I have met with the associations of veterans of my constituency, the FNACA – the National Federation of Veterans in Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia – the ONAC or the Association of ACPG-CTAM – former combatants-prisoners of war and combatants of Algeria-Tunisia-Morocco –: they are all in favour of this claim. There are others, in particular those of the repatriated community, which is still waiting for a balance sheet on catching up with the delay of the military disability pension point since 1990 in relation to inflation, or the harkis, of course. The wait is great. At a time when our army is defending its interests all over the world, it is time to give meaning to action. I am talking to you about rights: do you think that before voting on the declaration of human and citizen rights, a budget impact study was carried out with a view to establishing its cost? While the President of the Republic, when he travelled to Haiti, Tunisia, sub-Saharan Africa or Palestine, offered assistance of 50 million, you come to explain to us today that we could not find the same amount for veterans. No! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, today it is the Republic that calls us: let us ignore budgetary decisions and vote on this text to show, at least once, that Parliament is able to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u252	Mr Christophe Lejeune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u253	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the first class Bernard Lassauge, who was on board in Marseilles on 19 September 1962, obtained the certificate of good conduct on 31 October 1963 for the time he had remained under the flag and for his constant service with honour and loyalty; the second class Claude Bresson, boarded in Marseilles on 18 October 1963, obtained the diploma of the commemorative medal of security and law enforcement operations in Algeria on 3 February 1964; Mr Paul Vinterstein, boarded in Marseilles on 20 December 1962 and returned to his homes on 1 January 1964, is awaiting recognition. These three veterans of the Haute-Saône department are waiting to benefit from the fighter card. For yes, ladies and gentlemen, the climate of insecurity was very real between the day of Algeria's independence and 1 July 1964. During this period, more than 500 French military personnel were officially recognized as "dead for France", more than half of whom were killed by war. This sad observation makes it possible to estimate a monthly average of twenty-three "dead for France". On this day, ladies and gentlemen, we have an emotional thought for those who have fallen on our behalf, for our soldiers "dead for France": we repeat to them our deep gratitude for the ultimate sacrifice they have willingly made. These are our values that the French soldiers have always defended. Their commitment to the service of the homeland has sought to protect what we have most precious. Whole families were broken by the terrible losses that our armies experienced during this period. Those who can still testify tell us and tell us again: the situation of January 1962 had nothing to envy to the post-independence climate. However, the rights of veterans over these two periods are quite different. Title of recognition of the nation, commemorative medals, "on horseback" card: these are the rewards that France awards to French combatants who carried out part of their mission after July 2, 1962. Should we go further and give them the fighter's card? Yes, I think so – I can even say that we all think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u255	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Our veterans, whoever they are, deserve serious work from all political sensitivities. Let us all agree not to act in haste and to take the time necessary to put in place a more comprehensive plan so that no one, I say no one among our veterans, is left behind. The fighter card for those who served in Algeria between 1962 and 1964 is far from the only demand of the fighting world. As the Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces pointed out during the discussions on the 2018 Finance Bill, this is in addition to the half-tax share for surviving spouses. Thus, an assessment of all the measures requested must be carried out immediately in order to put an end to the disparities in their different estimates, within agreed time frames. We have always made sure, in the Defence Committee, to exploit sincere figures. We must maintain this course: as you know, the exact number of people involved in this extension is a matter of debate. It is this point, among other things, that it is important to clarify. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We promised them, through the voice of candidate Emmanuel Macron, to take the necessary steps to give them the fighter card. We've said it, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u256	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u257	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, the Algerian war has long been taboo. My uncle, who did it, never told me about it. While languages have become untied, it is still difficult to put words on the suffering of both French and Algerians. Once it is not customary, I would like to read you a letter sent to me by a resident of my constituency on the allocation of the fighter card. "Ma'am, I would like to draw your attention to the allocation of the combatant's card to the soldiers who served in Algeria after June 1962. I'm personally concerned. After four months of classes in Draguignan, until December 1962, at the beginning of 1963, I was sent to Algeria until November 1963, when we left North Africa. If, at that time, there was a little more security than before independence, it cannot be said that independence was total, far from it. We have as proof the official statistics of nearly 600 soldiers killed by war between June 1962 and July 1964. These unfortunate ones were entitled to the mention "death for France", like their unfortunate predecessors who died before June 1962. For us, a few years ago, we were awarded the title of recognition of the nation. It also makes sense. » I have received, like you surely, many witnesses, who called me on this recognition. The discussion of this bill is an opportunity to express our deep appreciation for those who have risked and are still risking their lives to ensure the safety of the French – I cannot fail to mention Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame in this regard. Why did you create this card? After the First World War, a consensus was reached on the moral need for national recognition of the hair. The allocation of the combatant's card opens up social and financial rights to its beneficiaries, but it also has an important symbolic significance. Created by the Finance Act of 19 December 1926, thought of for the soldiers of the first generation of fire, this map was gradually assigned to veterans of subsequent conflicts. Today it has its full meaning in the recognition of the nation for those who served it in combat. Throughout the 20th century, discussions took place on the criteria for the allocation of the combatant's card, from the day after the First World War to the granting of the card "on horseback", already mentioned earlier, by the 2014 Finance Act. Today we are facing a new debate. During the campaign, the President of the Republic expressed his support for the extension of the allocation of the combatant's card to military personnel present in Algeria until July 1964. As soon as you took office, Madam Secretary of State, you made a commitment to open this question and quickly assess the impacts of such a measure. Let me remind you of the historical period from 1962 to 1964. The March 1962 talks between the French Government and the provisional government of the Algerian Republic resulted in a ceasefire and the Evian agreements. They provided for the settlement of military matters in the event that independence was retained following the referendum: the French forces were to be reduced to 80000 within 12 months, while the total repatriation of troops was to take place rapidly, after 24 months, no later than 1 July 1964. Military operations therefore continued after 2 July 1962. As such, military personnel present in Algeria after that date already benefit from two arrangements. In addition to the title of recognition of the nation, which entitles them to the wearing of the medal of recognition of the nation, to the subscription of a mutual rent and makes them nationals of the National Office of Veterans and Victims of War, the card "on horseback", established by the Finance Law for 2014, allowed to extend the benefit of the card of the combatant to soldiers justifying a four-month stay in Algeria, begun before 2 July 1962 and extended beyond. However, doubts remain about the assessment of the impact of the allocation of the combatant's card for this period. This is the main brake on this new measure. Concertation with the associations of the fighting world has begun, and it is now a matter of assessing with great precision the financial implications of such a measure. The figures cited by the rapporteur should be refined. There is still uncertainty about the necessary budget and the number of beneficiaries: the latter could be between 25,000 and 75,000, and the annual budget of EUR 16 million mentioned by the rapporteur could be far exceeded. This bill has the virtue of allowing us to talk about the fighting world and, more specifically, the period from 1962 to 1964, which has already been the subject of ten bills and hundreds of written questions, but, given the doubts about its impact, this text cannot be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u258	That's not an argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u259	The spirit of this bill is consensus and its purpose is right. We will therefore have to study the matter with serenity in a forthcoming financial year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u261	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u262	At the end of this general discussion, I would like to thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for recognizing the validity of this bill. I would also like to extend the same thanks to all the members of our Assembly: after hearing all the speakers in the general debate, I understand that, despite some persistent differences, everyone agreed on the principle of the allocation of the combatant's card to veterans who arrived in Algeria after 2 July 1962. It is already a strong sign that we are sending veterans. Of course, I warmly thank all the opposition groups who have spoken out, sometimes with force, in favour of the bill: I understood that they shared everything that I feel deeply since I have been working on this text, that is, for almost three years. I want to say to Mrs Rabault that, indeed, I have taken the precaution to recognize the status of persons who served in Algeria after 2 July 1962, sometimes even as from 2 July 1962, of persons engaged on external missions to carry out security operations – this has not always been the case in the other bills tabled on this subject. This is a diplomatic precaution because I am fully aware that, in the text I am defending, all the words used are important and must be weighed to avoid hurting our Algerian friends. France was no longer in a state of war after July 2, 1962: it is very clear to me, and I think it is for everyone here. So we had to find another way to recognize these people as veterans: that's what we're doing today. However, two issues of discord persist with this text. The first relates to the numbers. In my opinion, as Julien Aubert said very well a few moments ago, there is no problem with figures: this is a question of principle. Are we ready to acknowledge that these people, at some point in their lives, have responded to the nation's call to ensure security on Algerian territory? For me, the answer is "yes", without any state of soul. I repeat: it is not a question of numbers, it is a question of principle. We must therefore act. As I recalled earlier, we never asked ourselves about the number of fighters when we decided to assign the fighter card under the OPEX. Moreover, contrary to what has been said in this rostrum, all veterans' associations agree on the figure of 25,000 persons concerned. Such consensus has not always prevailed among the associations, both on the principle of the allocation of the map and on the number of veterans involved. You had the courtesy, Madam Secretary of State, with your cabinet, to gather these associations around me, the same day the Defence Commission met to examine this bill: all these associations were around the table, with your collaborators – I was there to explain the meaning of my bill – and they agreed both on the principle of assigning the combatant's card to these people and on the figure of 25,000 veterans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u263	So there's no subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u264	And even if that figure were to be more important, again, it is a matter of principle. Of course, there is a financial problem. Madam Secretary of State, I fully understand that a government must take into account certain financial data. From the moment I estimated the number of potential new beneficiaries to 25,000 veterans, I was able to calculate the cost of the measure: since the annual amount of a pension is 748 euros – 65 euros per month – it would cost about 18.5 million euros per year. In the event that the new beneficiaries are 10000 or 20000 more and we reach a total cost of 30 million euros, I have tabled an amendment to delete Article 3 – unfortunately, we will probably not have the opportunity to consider it since the majority group has tabled a motion to refer it back to committee, which I regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u265	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u266	The purpose of this amendment is to encourage the Government to use the frozen appropriations for the Veterans Mission, which we voted on last November. Indeed, 3% of this mission's appropriations have been frozen, i.e. EUR 73.9 million – a much higher amount than the cost of the measure that I am defending today. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We will always be able to fight on numbers, but it has been 40 years since the veterans have been waiting for us to tell them that we are studying the issue, that we need a fundamental reflection, and that we are not solving anything for forty years. Today, Madam Secretary of State, I offer you a unique opportunity to finally solve this problem, to go to the end of this question, for a cost that I have incorporated into the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u267	It's urgent to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u268	It is also an opportunity for the National Assembly and Parliament to recognize the possibility of a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u269	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u270	Unfortunately, the fate of the bills we have considered today and of all the bills tabled by the opposition groups here...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u271	We don't value Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u272	...show that the parliamentary initiative is being flouted.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u273	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u274	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I really regret it. Madam Secretary of State, if this bill is passed today by the National Assembly, it will go to the Senate and the shuttle will continue. The parliamentary time is such that we will come to the consideration of the 2019 Finance Bill very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u275	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u276	Madam Secretary of State, if you are today in a position to commit yourself to resolving this problem in the context of the 2019 Finance Bill, then we will have gone through, with all the members here and, tomorrow, with the senators to whom you will be giving the opportunity to work with you on this bill for the next six months, a big step for democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u278	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Personally, I would be very grateful.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u280	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u281	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, for your comments. I have followed the debates carefully and I reiterate my thanks to Members, regardless of the benches on which they sit, for their interest in veterans. I am not going to argue about this: it is clear that the subject of veterans is a matter of interest to all Members. I think I misunderstood, or incompletely, and I'm sorry. The work I initiated with the fighting world, which is still under way, is not limited to the simple assessment of the map for the period 1962-1964. This is a much more comprehensive work, which also covers military disability pensions, the value of the point and all the subjects that have been of interest to the fighting world for many years. This work is carried out by groups and sub-groups; three subgroups currently meet at a frequency of approximately two meetings per week. As I was telling you, I'm very pragmatic. I would also like the fighting world to give its opinion on its priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u282	One of its priorities is to broaden the scope of the beneficiaries of the combatant's map!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u283	Yes, Mr rapporteur, I know that many associations are in favour of the allocation of the combatant's card for the period 1962-1964, but once the evaluation work has been completed, they may have other priorities. I also hope that national representation will be consulted here in the National Assembly, but also, of course, in the Senate, with the fighting world, so that we can walk together. It's not a job I want to do alone. Nor is the idea to arrogate the benefits of this measure. On the contrary, we want to move forward with the fighting world, to determine the subjects we can carry and those we can't deal with, to decide what our priorities will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u284	That's all you're asked for, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u285	I agree with you, Mr rapporteur: this measure has been requested for forty years. There seems to be a vital urgency today to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u286	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u287	This has been going on for forty years!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u288	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Let us finish the work that has been undertaken, if only for the sake of the fighting world, that I am consulting. We have engaged the associations in a work of reflection: we must also take them into consideration and wait for their opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u289	We know what they think.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u290	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Again, I would like to thank all of you for these exchanges that have been very interesting and, above all, will make the heart of our fighting world warm.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u291	It is above all the vote in this text that would make him warm in the heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u292	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République group a motion for referral to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u293	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "When the Algerian war appears in the public debate in France, it is almost as much as a subject of history as it is a subject of current events," writes Raphaëlle Branche, in 2005, in a book entitled The War of Algeria: a soothing story? Today's legislative activity is a perfect illustration of the accuracy of this statement, which unfortunately still expresses the stigma of a war of independence that has taken place in pain for both sides and whose memory is still languishing. The purpose of the bill tabled by our colleagues in the Les Républicains Group is to extend the benefit of the granting of the fighter card to French soldiers deployed in Algeria from 2 July 1962, the day before independence, until 1 July 1964, the date of departure of the French contingent, recognizing this period as external operations. It thus aims to complete the long process of recognition of Algeria's elders, begun by the law of 9 December 1974, which was adopted after a few perpetuations resulting from parliamentary work. Since the then MPs had expanded the criteria for defining operations that could qualify as OPEX for the benefit of issuing the AFN Veterans Card, the Government had finally withdrawn the first bill. Another milestone in this development was the extension, in 2001, of the title of recognition of the nation to the French soldiers present in Algeria between 2 July 1962 and 1 July 1964. The beneficiaries of this NRT for this period are, as we have pointed out, a little over 36,000. Finally, the previous legislature created the so-called "horse riding" card in Article 109 of the Finance Law for 2014, which extended the benefit of the fighter card to soldiers present in Algeria between 1962 and 1964, who remained there beyond 120 days, those who arrived after that date being excluded from the benefit of the card. This exclusion, which I see and regret – and I think I can say that there are many of us in this House who regret it – is experienced by some as an injustice, and it is not a question of disavowing it here, as the legitimacy of this need for recognition seems unquestionable to us. As Raphaëlle Branche rightly points out, "the Algerian war did not start on the same date for all. It did not end either at the same time [...]. The multiplicity of the experiences of war and, a fortiori, the divergences over what could constitute the end of it [...] were at the origin of plural memories, constitutive of the society in which we evolve". It is important, however, to recall that the request to grant the combatant's card to the soldiers of Algeria, originally made by the ex-combatants' associations, was not originally intended for soldiers deployed after 1 July 1962. Thus, in the 1980s and 1990s, the National Federation of Veterans in Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia – the FNACA – continued to obtain official recognition of the state of war in Algeria, in order to put the soldiers from 1954 to 1962 in the filiation of the fighters of the two world wars. The concern of these associations to see on our monuments to the dead those who had fallen "in North Africa during the war of Algeria 1952-1962" attests to the temporal césure which they also consecrated, a few years ago. Fortunately, things have changed and you write, rapporteur, in your report: "How can we explain that more than fifty years after the facts, France was unable to fully recognise these soldiers" deployed from 2 July 1962 to 1 July 1964? The question may indeed arise – and I am tempted to say that it can also be asked of you. Under the previous legislature, which you have known, rapporteur, there are no fewer than eight identical bills from Members of your group,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u294	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u295	... without any of them ever being placed on the agenda of one of your parliamentary niches. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Our majority, ladies and gentlemen, have barely ten months of existence. It is new and profoundly renewed in its composition as, I hope, in its political practices, fully concerned and concerned with the interests and memory of veterans. I myself served, until the beginning of my parliamentary term last June, this noble public institution, now a century old, the National Office of War Veterans and Victims. This majority cannot be held responsible for past renunciations and practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u296	It was Le Drian!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u297	Contrary to what one might be tempted to reproach us, it is not a question, with this motion to refer to committee – the words have a meaning – of yielding to some renunciations that cannot be justified. On the contrary! Like you, we believe that legitimate recognition and just reparation must take place. The President of the Republic, who was then a candidate, had indicated during his election campaign that he was in favour of extending the combatant's map to soldiers deployed after 1 July 1962.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u298	He didn't say the date!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u299	And it is also on the basis of the finding of partial, incomplete and fragmentary recognition that the Secretary of State, backed by a method which she has just reminded us, wishes to study all the requests of associations representing the world fighting, in order to programme the implementation of new measures at the quinquennium level. That is the whole point of our motion to refer to committee. We, the deputies of the Republic on the move, still want to work together with all the actors, in particular the veterans' associations. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] We also want the sincerity of public finances, as has been said. That is why we support the approach taken by the Secretary of State, which aims to assess the scope of the proposed measure in order to provide for its financing as precisely and sincerely as possible. We do not want to suffer, ladies and gentlemen, from later criticism, especially by yourselves, on the benches on my right, of insinuating public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u300	Sleek!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u301	That's 54 euros a month!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u302	Bercy runs the country!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u303	All of us here are parliamentarians concerned – if not by nature, at least by function – with the budgetary sincerity of our policies and the financial precision of our proposals, and we cannot, as a matter of responsibility, randomly announce that this measure would amount to EUR 10 million, EUR 20 million or EUR 50 million. In this connection, Mr rapporteur, I would like to return for a moment to the method used to estimate the number of beneficiaries of this proposed new measure. If your method undeniably proceeds from a certain logic, it nevertheless appears to be somewhat approximate. Indeed, you subtract from the number of beneficiaries the title of recognition of the nation created specifically by the Finance Law for 1968, estimated at 36167, the number of holders of the "horse card" introduced by the Finance Law for 2014,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u304	12,000!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u305	... or 12,000 people, which, according to your estimate, would bring the number of beneficiaries of this new card to about 25,000. However, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Evian agreements, France had a duty to maintain on Algerian territory a contingent of nearly 80000 military personnel beyond 2 July 1962. According to a 2013 Senate report – not as old as that, and that you are quoting yourself, rapporteur – more than 150,000 men stayed in Algeria during the period 1962-1964. Of course, some soldiers have received the card as part of other conflicts, while others have since died. Once these elements have been recalled, Mr rapporteur, there is no assurance that the basis of your estimate, based on the number of national recognition certificates granted for this period, does not underestimate the number of beneficiaries of the extension of the fighter card that you are proposing to adopt today. Indeed, as you know, the title of recognition of the nation, like the combatant's card, must be requested to be obtained – it is a voluntarist step – and it is not unreasonable to think that the NRT, for a whole category of veterans, is accompanied by less profits, financially as well as from a memorial and symbolic point of view, than those granted by the combatant's card, dissuading them from doing the necessary steps to ask for it. It is therefore perfectly consistent to envisage that several thousand military personnel present after 1 July 1962 meet the eligibility criteria of your measure without still benefiting from the national recognition title, so that your assessment of the potential number of beneficiaries and the cost of the measure appears truncated. In this connection, I would point out that a 2016 study of the Historical Defence Service estimated the number of potential beneficiaries of such a measure for the period 1962-1964 to be more than 104,000. This number is eloquent when compared to your estimate, which is 25,000. In addition, you yourself point out, Mr. Rapporteur, in your report, that "it seems futile to embark on a precise count of the number of deaths, as the work of the Historical Defence Service, associations and historians continues". Let me say that, for the living too, this work is continuing and it is coming to an end, as the Secretary of State has said, at the rate it has begun and decided, in accordance with a defined method and timetable, in consultation with the State services, including the Historical Defence Service and the associations. We can give the Secretary of State no more than a new method that puts many files on the table, some of which have been open for more than fifty years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me prudent and responsible not to preempt the conclusions very close to these different actors, which will allow us to have a real estimate of the number of beneficiaries to which we wish to extend the combatant's map for the period 1962-1964. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] No, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you again and I assure you that this is not a systematic opposition to your bill by the Republic Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u306	That's what we call old politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u307	What would it be if they systematically opposed each other?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u308	It is simply a matter of allowing the Government, in this case to you, the Secretary of State, and the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, to provide, for example in a forthcoming finance bill, for the extension of the combatant's map to the French soldiers deployed on Algerian territory. Indeed, the finance law seems to us to be the most appropriate legislative vehicle for extending this benefit,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u309	That's not what you said during the review of the finance law: you sent it back to another text! That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u310	... similar to the extension adopted in Article 109 of the Finance Law for 2014 and known as the "horse card". In short, with this motion for referral back to committee, the Group of the European People's Party calls on us to give ourselves the time and, above all, the means necessary to grant, with all the sincerity of the budget to which we are all particularly attached here, the combatant's card to all those who served between 2 July 1962 and 1 July 1964. Finally, I would like to remind you that with the 2018 Finance Act, we have adopted a number of measures in support of the world fighting in the "Veterans" budget mission, and more specifically in Program 169, "Recognition and Reparation for the Fighting World". Of the €2.4 billion in funding under this programme, several million has been allocated to finance the two-point increase in the amount of the fighter's pension, and we have also increased the allowance for the recognition of harkis by €100.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u311	This was decided during the previous quinquennium!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u312	We will therefore vote on this motion for referral back to committee, with the assurance that the President of the Republic's campaign commitment will be properly implemented. We are collectively vigilant, and I will personally be careful that this measure is included in a future finance bill – the sooner the better. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The duty of memory and the recognition of the service of the nation are indispensable for the calming of past clashes and the strengthening of ties with the nation and our cohesion, particularly necessary in our time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u313	What enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u314	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u315	Mr Gouttefarde, I think we do not speak the same language. I am talking about veterans who served the nation, who put their lives at risk for security operations and who were sometimes deprived for several months or even years of the freedom they could have enjoyed at the age of 20. They were deprived of it because they made this choice and France asked them to serve. For me, I tell you again, no matter how many, which I will return to. With your motion to refer to committee, you are totally wrong, sending a very bad signal to the fighting world, here and looking at us. You could at least have had the courtesy of studying the text to the end, even if you rejected it at the end with arguments on which we could have exchanged in this House. We really could have done so, out of respect for the fighting world, those who came back alive and the 135 deaths counted – it is true that the account is not necessarily over, but veterans have worked hard on it and know perfectly well how these people died. Out of respect for all these people, we could study the law to the end. That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u316	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u317	A referral to committee is not glorious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u318	I come to the number of 25,000 veterans. The award of the title of recognition of the nation was decided in 2001. Since then, 35,000 veterans have applied to benefit, but many have unfortunately died – as have many who did not. Among all these people who did not apply for the recognition of the nation, many served in other military conflicts, notably in Indochina, between 1950 and 1964. They already enjoyed the status of veterans and had no reason to apply for the recognition of the nation. In the extra count you want to do, you completely forget that many active members already have the status of veterans and benefit from the fighter card. You integrate all these people into your encryption; I took them off! You blame us for not introducing a bill to that effect in the past. This was a major difficulty: there was a time when all veterans' associations did not agree with each other on this point, with some refusing to issue the veterans' card to members deployed between 1962 and 1964. Now, all associations agree – I have read all their deliberations for two or three years – all recognize this need. Madam Secretary of State, I recognize that several requests for veterans' associations remain to be cleared, and I believe in your sincerity when you tell us that you have the will to do so. Today, however, these associations place the allocation of the combatant's card as a priority for soldiers hired in Algeria between 1962 and 1964. [[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the UDI-Agir group]] According to my estimate, the cost is 18 million euros. Mr Cubertafon, a member of the MODEM group, said that I had not taken into account the half share or the additional costs. Yes, I have taken them into account, knowing that many of the families of veterans have very low resources and are not liable for income tax! As a result, they are not affected by the family quotient – believe me, as far as the family quotient is concerned, I am beginning to know a piece of it, if I may say so! That's what I wanted to tell you. We are making a mistake this evening by rejecting this bill by a simple motion to refer it back to committee. Having received a lot of testimony since I defended this text, I would like to quote a veteran of Algeria from 1962 to 1964, who wrote to me: "As far as I am concerned, over eighteen months of active service, I spent twelve months in Algeria from November 1962 to November 1963. I was called at nineteen and a half years old; my twenty years, I handed them the weapons in order to maintain law and order and protect the interests of France. For some of you, you were not yet born; Your twenty years, you must have celebrated them differently, and so much the better for you: I do not wish anyone to experience such events. So what are you waiting for: that we are all dead to be recognized? It is true that at that time, we will not cost anything. » [[Smile]] I remember the words of General de Gaulle, who said, with a quote from Georges Clemenceau: "When I want to stifle a case, I create a commission. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u319	It's still working!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u320	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the UDI-Agir, NG and FI groups]] In the meantime, time passes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u321	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee. Mr Patrice Verchère, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u322	It must be noted that we all agree, at least on the substance, with the bill by our colleague Gilles Lurton. Nevertheless, only opposition Members are in favour of the adoption of this text by the Republican Group today; We thank them for that. Indeed, this bill is not political: its purpose is the recognition of the fighting world, aimed only at advancing its rights. The whole opposition is in favour of this because it is high time to redress this injustice and finally recognize all our soldiers who remained on Algerian soil after 2 July 1962. It is high time to redress this injustice because the advanced age of potential beneficiaries means that every month, every day that passes, there are fewer and fewer. The majority of LaREM and MODEM still wish to wait and, with this motion for referral to committee, close this discussion quickly. However, it could have demonstrated that the entire national representation supports this measure of justice and recognition. The pretext for the budgetary cost of this bill is not, in the light of the €3.3 billion budget that is yours, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u323	It's just a pretext!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u324	The pretext that you do not have all the elements to measure the impact of such a scheme and the number of beneficiaries does not stand, as our colleague Alexis Corbière pointed out. The pretext for waiting for the views of veterans' associations is not valid because their views have long been known: they have long been seeking recognition and redress for this injustice. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, you take as a pretext that the opposition, both left and right, would not have done anything when it was in business: it is not true! Should I recall that the veteran's pension increased by 30% over the period 2007-2012, not to mention the differential allowance for surviving spouses? Should I recall the enlargement, in 2014, of the conditions for the allocation of the fighter card beyond July 2, 1962, what was called the "horse card"? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, after presenting a budget for 2018 with no significant recovery in favour of the fighting world, the Government must meet its commitments and cease to be content with vague promises or shelter behind the establishment of working and evaluation groups. Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, The Republican Group wishes to continue the debate on this bill by our colleague Gilles Lurton and will therefore vote against your motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u325	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u326	On the motion for referral to committee, a request for a public vote is before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u327	Mr Lurton, I fully respect your comments, but my own is in agreement with those of my colleague Fabien Gouttefarde: on the substance, we are quite in agreement with this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u328	Then emancipate yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u329	We do not dispute the rights to recognition and reparation of former soldiers who operated in Algeria after the Evian agreements; We are even very much in favour of it. Let us give ourselves time to make a good decision as soon as possible but without haste!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u330	The next speaker is Mr Yannick Favennec Becot, for the IDU Group, Action and Independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u331	As I said in the general discussion, the IUD Group, Agir et indépendants, wishes to adopt this necessary measure of fairness and dignity towards thousands of former French soldiers who risked their lives for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u332	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u333	It is time, it is even high time to recognize the memory of all those who remained on the soil of Algeria after 2 July 1962. That is why, alongside our colleague Gilles Lurton, whose arguments we share, we will oppose this motion for referral to committee. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We will also oppose this motion as a matter of principle, because the whole of my parliamentary group considers that the discussions of the bills at the niche sessions are a rare moment in the expression of minority groups and in the opposition. Even if we are opposed to a text, we must therefore allow Members to defend it freely.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u334	The next speaker is Mr Luc Carvounas, for the New Left Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u335	As was the case during the debates in committee, the majority objected to this text; She now asks for her referral back to committee. My colleague Valérie Rabault and other Members have come back at length on the merits of extending the allocation of the combatant's card to military personnel deployed in Algeria after July 1962 and until July 1964. It is a question of appreciating the commitment of soldiers who have operated in a perilous environment for many months. As usual, you are opposed to this desire for recognition because of purely accounting arguments, even though the resources of the Veterans Affairs Mission are declining every year. If we decided to put this measure in place, it would limit the reduction of this budget to the margin, which is proof that the financial effort is not so drastic. Moreover, the favourable economic situation makes it possible to envisage this fair expenditure in order to restore equality among all those who participated in operations in Algeria, whether they were deployed before or after July 2, 1962. In addition, the text provides for a solution to consider these months not as a period of war in the strict sense but as a matter of the OPEX. All barriers are therefore lifted!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u336	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u337	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group and on several benches of the LR group]] The referral back to committee only once again rejects this legitimate request, even though there is no valid argument to support such a postponement. The New Left Group will therefore vote against the motion for referral.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u338	The next speaker is Mr Alexis Corbière, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u339	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Many arguments have been put forward to explain why we will vote against the motion to refer to oblivion – or in committee. I will add an argument to the attention of our colleague from the running Republic Group. I do not agree to hear that the President of the Republic will deal with this shortly; This is unacceptable on the part of a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u340	This is Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u341	[[Applause on the benches of groups FI, LR and NG]] We've had enough! We do not expect the goodwill of the President of the Republic; We are deputies, the national representation is here. The repetition of this kind of argument clearly shows how you envisage your constitutional reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u342	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u343	Let us take advantage of this debate to vote now! There's enough! Let's get to the bottom because time passes! In this case, the time is turning in the wrong direction: to want too much budgetary austerity measures, we are moving towards democratic austerity, austerity of respect! So you know how we're going to vote. I will stand in front of my colleagues in the New Left Group. Allow me, however, to say, dear Valérie Rabault, that your group, which, a short while ago, was exercising power in the majority, could have done something.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u344	You're not going to give us that argument yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u345	Yes, Mr. Carvounas, this argument again, especially for you! I have no problem with this because you must not be hypocritical!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u346	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u347	Similarly, the Republic on the move counts in its ranks many people who were previously parliamentarians, minister of defence or prime minister, and who have done nothing! I must admit that, at times, the hypocrisy contest is quite high!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u348	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u349	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In any event, we will vote against the motion to refer it back to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u350	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u351	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, for the La République group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u352	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] First of all, we would like to thank and pay tribute to the rapporteur Gilles Lurton for his work and the quality of his listening, including when the arguments did not add up to his point. You gave a very good summary, Mr rapporteur, a few moments ago, of the elements that bring us together on this measure and the differences that remain with regard to its implementation. We have all shown our commitment to veterans, our commitment to ending injustice and redressing it by implementing this measure in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u353	As for the defiscalisation of overtime!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u354	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Beyond the commitment of the President of the Republic, the Minister's commitment a few months ago to the implementation of this reform, this progress, was reaffirmed this afternoon. If we understand your willingness to preempt the work in progress, we must let this work go to its end,... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... so that this measure can be applied effectively, without misleading anyone. We shall therefore vote in favour of referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u355	It's not glorious!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u356	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u357	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to propose the conditions for further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u358	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u359	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u360	The next item is the debate on the bill adopted by the Senate on the reception of travellers and the fight against illegal installations (No. 346, 819).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u361	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u362	Madam Chair, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Madam Rapporteur of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to Mrs Jacqueline Gourault, Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, retained in the Senate but who will arrive in the next few minutes. The Senate wished to put on the agenda the revision of the legal framework applicable to the reception and accommodation conditions of Travellers, which is the result of the Act of 5 July 2000, known as the Besson Act. This framework had been substantially amended by the law on the modernization of territorial public action and affirmation of metropolises, or MAPTAM law, and the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, or NOTRE law, which transferred jurisdiction to metropolises and intercommunalities. It was mainly through the Act of 27 January 2017 on equality and citizenship, adopted a little over a year ago, that amendments were made. Was there an urgent need to put back on the profession provisions that have not yet been evaluated? It's probably a little early. However, I am aware that this is an important issue for communities. In the first few weeks after joining the Government, Jacqueline Gourault was asked on this subject by national and local elected officials, particularly from Haute-Savoie.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u363	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u364	The increasing number of illegal parking situations for Travellers, both in the Department and elsewhere, has led to significant unrest and discontent among the owners of illegally occupied land, as well as local elected officials. Illegal facilities can affect agricultural land or industrial areas, and hence related economic activity. They sometimes cause very strong tensions with elected officials, farmers, business leaders and local residents. Such incidents obviously contribute to a harmful climate. They are, however, made up of isolated groups. This climate is, moreover, part of the amalgam that the population can make between the authors of these practices and the vast majority of Travellers, whose installation on the reception areas does not cause trouble. The Government was determined to be able to effectively combat illegal occupation. To do so, the available legal tools must be used to the maximum extent possible. That is the meaning of the request we made to the prefects. At the same time, it must be noted that, in some departments, the obligations resulting from the departmental arrangements for the reception and accommodation of Travellers are not yet respected by all the communes, departmental arrangements for the reception and accommodation of Travellers from there. At the end of 2016, the number of places available in permanent accommodation areas was 26755. As a result, 30 per cent of communities do not meet the requirements of departmental schemes. Moreover, although since 2010, the number of places created in reception areas has continued to increase – by almost 25% – there are still significant disparities. The Île-de-France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur and Hauts-de-France regions have particularly low implementation rates. In addition, where obligations are met, the places created do not necessarily correspond to their vocation, for example, because of a geographical location that is not always the most suitable. Some difficulties in the realization of places are well identified, especially in tense areas where the mobilization of land reserves is more difficult. Of course, there is also the question of acceptance by residents of the establishment of these areas. Finally, the Court of Auditors notes a tendency towards the territorial anchoring of Travellers, which leads to the almost permanent occupation of certain reception areas and even areas of great importance, some of which are even the subject of total appropriation by family groups. In view of that fact, the Government opted for a balanced approach to the issue, which must be approached in a calm manner. It is up to all of us collectively, Government, administration, elected national and local, to empower Travellers in the manner they have chosen. This is the whole purpose and meaning of the law of 5 July 2000, the application of which must be guaranteed, encouraged and accompanied. However, this way of life must, of course, be carried out in accordance with the laws of the Republic, and the Government will be very vigilant on this point. Some legislative changes are necessary in this regard. The provisions of the NOTRE law which transferred the competence to develop, maintain and manage areas and land for travellers to metropolises and EPCI – public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – with own taxation, were not accompanied by the appropriate amendments to the Act of 5 July 2000. Although the EPCIs are competent in this area, the obligations set out in the departmental plans continue to be based on the municipalities. However, the latter do not have the necessary legal arsenal, on the basis of the principle of exclusive competence transferred. The first legal answers in the text prepared by the Senate Law Committee were interesting and provided a good basis for starting. However, the text voted by the Senate no longer respected the balance that the Government was seeking on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u365	This balance is broken!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u366	On the one hand, it allowed communities to free themselves from some of their reception obligations and, on the other hand, to increase the constraints that might be faced by Travellers, including criminal ones. The Government cannot support provisions that would weaken the obligations arising from the schemes for municipalities or that go back to the tools available to the State to enforce them. It is therefore with satisfaction that we have taken note of the developments made by the Committee on the Laws of this House. First, it removed provisions that tended to alleviate the obligations of communities or the constraints that might be placed on them by the prefectural authority. For example, we believe it is important to ensure the distribution of reception areas throughout the territory, including in rural areas, and the Law Commission has retained the obligation to cover all municipalities by a departmental scheme. The Senate's proposal to exclude communities of communes with no communes of more than 5000 inhabitants would have made it possible to exempt 45 per cent of communities of communes from this obligation. Similarly, the Commission re-established the procedure for the recording of funds, after notice by the Prefect, in case of non-achievement of the objectives charged to the EPCI. It also removed provisions that overemphasized the burden on Travellers themselves. It had thus abolished all provisions of criminal aggravation, some of which were clearly discriminatory against Travellers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u367	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u368	The Government considers that the recent legislation – the Internal Security Act of 2003, the Crime Prevention Act of 2007 and the Equality and Citizenship Act of 2017 – has significantly improved the capacity of public authorities to combat illegal settlements, creating, inter alia, ex officio and forced evacuation procedures, without the intervention of the judge, in cases of illegal parking and manifest disturbances to public order. I would also like to point out that, while the state's financial support is no longer what it was before 2008, the allocations for support for local investment have been largely consolidated in the finance law, with more than EUR 1 billion allocated to the provision of equipment for rural areas, the DETR; There is no prohibition for communities that have projects to create a reception area to apply to the government for assistance under the DETR. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is in summary, ladies and gentlemen, the state of mind in which the Government is approaching this debate. He was well aware of the reality of local difficulties and the need to resolve them, and would support that text. It is in this constructive and serene state of mind that I wish to discuss with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u369	It's starting very badly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u370	I call Ms. Virginie Duby-Muller, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u371	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was in the local press. The mayors of Annemasse Agglo denounced the umpteenth illegal installation of a community of Travellers, and pointed out a legal system "not suitable to fight against these illegal flea jumps". In question, the installation of a dozen caravans, arrived this week, on the night of Monday to Tuesday, in the parking lot of a school in Annemasse, yet located in the vigilance zone of the Vigipirates plan. This community of Travellers connected to the school's electrical cabinet via a wild installation, which also resulted in a cut-off of electricity in the classrooms. Madam Secretary of State, such anecdotes, we could bring you hundreds of them every year, from all over France, my parliamentary colleagues and myself. My colleague Annie Genevard cited the example of Travellers who break everything on reception areas in the Val de Morteau and who, when they are full or in repair, settle anywhere, especially in areas of activity, preventing trucks from accessing businesses or stealing materials. Unfortunately, these anecdotes are too numerous, and we now want action. Some realities cannot be ignored and demand that, beyond our membership of the majority or the opposition, we have the courage and political will to find ourselves. I would like to refer this evening to the situation we all have in our territories, particularly in border or coastal districts: although they respect all their obligations regarding the reception of Travellers – including the provision of land or access to public services and schooling – communes and intercommunalities are constantly confronted with illegal camps and the tensions they generate. I want to mention the situation of the mayors, when they turn to the inhabitants, farmers, entrepreneurs who see their land damaged or their activity collapse, and who do not understand why nothing is done to allow rapid evacuation in order to limit damage and loss. These elected officials deserve our full attention; They deserve us to find solutions to the problems they face together. Do I have to recall the verbal and even physical violence that is taking place in certain territories? Nothing can justify these behaviours. My alternate, Caroline Laverrière, in attempting to intervene, was threatened by a person in the Traveller community, armed with a rifle. These behaviors are intolerable for the elected representatives we are, for the citizens and more generally for our Republic. I will also refer to the situation of the prefects, who are confronted with mechanisms whose legal certainty is not always guaranteed, and who lack the means to take the necessary measures, as well as those of the forces of law and order, powerless, outdated, exhausted by the going-and-coming groups abusing a legal situation which guarantees them ultimately impunity, because that is what this is all about at present. Finally, I would like to refer to the situation of groups of Travellers who respect their legal obligations, who warn elected officials upstream of their journeys and who only aspire to live according to their traditions, but in accordance with the law. They are the losers, like all of our fellow citizens on the ground, of the insufficiency of our right to put an end to the reprehensible behaviour of other Traveller communities. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this fact, we cannot remain passive spectators, deaf to the legitimate demands of our territories. We cannot simply refer the effort to local and regional authorities. Indeed, if 70% of the reception places provided for in the departmental plans have been built and if the offer of sites has diversified to improve the quality of them, how can one convince a municipality to comply with its obligations or to continue its effort, when it finds that illegal settlements have not decreased locally, even when the communities have made expensive investments? All the actors in the field agree that while the effort to build reception places has been continuous in recent years, the counterpart of a rapid evacuation of illegal camps has not been respected. Therefore, balance is broken and discouragement, when it is not anger, wins the elected and the citizens. Unfortunately, I regret to note that once again we risk missing an opportunity to provide the long-awaited answers. The Senate has proposed to us a text with essential provisions to improve evacuation procedures and to sanction offences more effectively. I thank the rapporteur, Catherine Di Folco, and our colleagues from Haute-Savoie for their high-quality work. Despite this, the majority have removed six out of eleven articles and emptied two other articles of much of their substance. However, when we met with her at the ministry or when she visited the department, Ms. Gourault had made a commitment to the parliamentarians of Haute-Savoie to give the prefects and the police more resources so that they could intervene more quickly, and thus adapt the penalties incurred. Of these commitments, unfortunately, there is virtually nothing left in the text adopted by the Committee on Laws, although, as I know, Mrs Gourault is committed to respecting her word. We were ready for compromises, real work of parliamentary construction. The majority opposed dry removals, adding to that a trial of intent, unfortunately in total lag in relation to the reality of the ground. For it is not a question of stigmatizing Travellers, on the contrary, but of targeting groups who commit offences; We fully assume that. When we propose to make evacuation procedures faster and more effective, we do not do so against Travellers, but for public or private owners of illegally occupied land. I am thinking in particular of farmers, who see their crops destroyed in the spring and summer, without obtaining any financial compensation in return, because we know that procedures of this type rarely succeed in covering the actual losses. I will therefore let you explain to them that we cannot make any adjustments, which are called for, because that would be stigmatizing for the groups who commit these offences. We also wanted, as proposed by the Senate, to strengthen support for communes and inter-communities, and to better recognize their financial efforts by implementing a reception policy, which the Government, for its part, has largely disengaged in recent years. Again, your majority has removed provisions that would have made it possible to restore a certain balance. In particular, the Commission looked back at the possibility for small communities of communes to oppose the installation of reception areas in their territory. I would point out that many of them already offer reception solutions, which are often under-used because of their remoteness from large urban centres, which are often in deficit. It was also a question of returning to the spirit of the Besson Act, which had made participation in departmental schemes compulsory only for communes with more than 5000 inhabitants. Taking into account the financial effort of the construction of reception sites in the social housing quotas provided for in the SRU Act – on urban solidarity and renewal – would also have made it possible to increase the incentive for communities, particularly urban centres, to comply with their obligations, while the assimilation of these sites to social housing is already foreseen under other schemes. I regret once again that no compromise measures have been proposed by the majority. In the rest of our debates, I will therefore defend the restoration of the Senate text, which seemed to me to guarantee the balance of rights and obligations of local and regional authorities, as well as those of travellers. If, however, we were to adopt a truncated text, the local elected representatives, the farmers and all the citizens who regularly approach this issue would not be mistaken. This renunciation of a locally difficult situation would add to the list of multiple attacks by your majority in its relations with the territories. Why give them up? Why the resentment? I say this without a partisan mind, because both for me and for many of my colleagues, the priority is to respond urgently to the difficulties encountered. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is this message that I wanted to send you, ladies and gentlemen, and I will continue to do so, hoping to convince you that our territories, the elected representatives, the citizens, but also the Travellers deserve better than the denatured text before us, and that we must work together on concrete and pragmatic solutions, because there is an urgent need, the situation is deteriorating on the ground and we do not want it to end with a local tragedy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u372	In the general debate, Mr Charles de la Verpillière spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u373	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, elected from a constituency in the department of Ain that affects the Lyon metropolis, I see day after day, like my colleague Virginie Duby-Muller, that the parking of Travellers is becoming more and more difficult. On the one hand, the municipalities and the intercommunalities are unable to find suitable reception areas, because of the land pressure on the plain of Ain, the Coast and the Val de Saône. On the other hand, illegal parking, on public or private property, is increasing. Public order is threatened, as is safety and health. Sedentary inhabitants, if I may say so, are exasperated, as are businesses and farmers. Faced with this situation, which could rapidly degenerate, the ideological approach is not the right one. You have to be pragmatic. It is in this spirit that the Senate has passed the bill that the National Assembly, in turn, is now considering. The amendments made by this Act to the Act of 5 July 2000 on the reception and accommodation of Travellers are nothing revolutionary. We could have gone further, it seems to me, by entrusting the State completely with managing the major passageways: the acquisition and development of the reception grounds, the management and maintenance of these lands, the monitoring of movements, etc. Indeed, obviously, our mayors and presidents of intercommunality have neither the means nor the authority to control groups of several hundred caravans – for that is the reality. But this regret does not prevent me from appreciating the improvements that the Senate proposes to make to the law of July 5, 2000. There are six of them: firstly, to better distribute the obligations between large and small communities, because the same cannot be demanded of a commune of 3000 inhabitants and of the metropolis of Lyon; Second, requiring groups of more than 150 mobile homes to notify the prefect and the chair of the departmental council at least three months before their arrival; Third, to account for permanent areas of Travellers as social housing for the calculation of the 25% quota imposed by the SRU Act; Fourthly, increase the mobile residence tax to better cover the expenses incurred by municipalities and intercommunalities for the reception of Travellers; fifthly, to improve the effectiveness of the procedure for forced evacuation of illegal parking; sixthly, strengthen existing criminal sanctions to make them more dissuasive. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Unfortunately, most of these measures, which are essential – one realizes when one is on the ground – have been abolished by the majority during the passage into the law commission. The Republicans Group will therefore propose that they be restored by means of amendments, which I hope will be adopted, so that common sense prevails over ideology and old-fashioned political postures. Again, it is public order – public peace, I should say – that is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u374	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u375	Madam President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, during the Committee's consideration of this bill, I indicated to you our feeling about it: we were faced with a text that called for a double analysis in that, on the one hand, it provided a response to the needs clearly expressed by the communities and, on the other, it contained certain discriminatory measures against itinerant citizens. At the end of our discussions, we have managed to remove several problematic measures to keep only those that are truly useful to communities facing an upsurge in illicit facilities. With this text, we provide them with a complete and intelligent legal toolbox. The draft law refines and clarifies, from Article 1, certain provisions of the laws MAPTAM, NOTRE and equality and citizenship, concerning the transfer of the municipalities to the intercommunalities of the competence relating to the reception of Travellers. I would also like to stress the relevance of the inter-municipal level to the management of such situations. The text also reinforces, in particular by its articles 4 and 6, the corpus of criminal penalties for unlawful occupation of land. Finally, it offers solutions for the long-term treatment of the problem. In particular, this is the subject of the amendment which I, along with my colleague Philippe Latomb, on behalf of the MODEM Group, present a new tool for the benefit of the communities: as soon as an illegal occupation is found, a judicial police officer will be able to update almost automatically the information contained in the decision-making information system of the vehicle registration system – SID SIV. The information thus recorded will prevent any commercial activity involving vehicles used for this occupation. Together with my colleague, we are convinced that this measure will put an end to practices, sometimes fraudulent, which indirectly fuel this phenomenon. This provision, although a sanction, will allow for a calmed settlement of disputes since registration in the SIV SID can be eliminated if the owners of the compromised vehicles regularize their situation by paying a fine or restoring the occupied land. It is therefore tantamount to securing vehicles without dispossessing their owners. I know the willingness of the LR Group to re-establish, for part, certain measures. I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the efforts made by the municipalities and associations to curb the phenomenon. By returning to an earlier version of the text, you could undermine the fragile balance achieved at the cost of a long dialogue, accompaniment and, in some cases, rehousing. In this respect, I will cite the example of the municipality of Ivry-sur-Seine, in Val-de-Marne, which, with the help of many associations, managed to evacuate the largest camp in the department and, by mobilizing various resources, to relocate 180 people who lived there for a long time. You see, the local elected officials experiment, offer, welcome. You could create tensions where they expect solutions that allow them to understand this phenomenon calmly. Finally, I would like to tell you that this problem is also that of mal-housing and that, as such, it cannot be solved exclusively by means of sanctions, which would seriously undermine the scope of the text. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The MODEM group, with its long-standing territorial roots, remains committed to balanced compromises that give communities full latitude. That, in my view, is the purpose of the significant changes that we have made collectively, which give the bill all the effectiveness that such a problem calls for. I therefore call on my colleagues to maintain this desire for efficiency. The MODEM Group will vote for the version of the text as amended by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u376	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u377	Madam President, Madam Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the reception of travellers and the fight against illegal installations is a major and recurring issue since, on both sides, there are difficulties, misunderstandings, claims and resentments. Since the first legislation on this subject nearly 30 years ago, we can all see that the situation has hardly improved; It is far from satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u378	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u379	As local authorities are at the heart of these concerns, it is imperative that we improve dialogue and relations between Travellers and local elected officials. Public policies relating to their reception are by nature complex since this community is plural and different ways of life, especially since among the 300,000 members of the Traveller community in France, it is necessary to distinguish the itinerant from the sedentary and semi-sedentary, whose number is growing. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to understand, if not to have lived, the realities of the field. Many of us in this House are or have been elected local in communities affected by these issues – Madam Minister, I will not remind you of the tragic events that have occurred in a department dear to your heart. Again, situations are so diverse that it is not possible to deduce generalities from them. There are territories where the reception of Travellers does not pose the slightest difficulty, and others where there are tensions so great that they will not be able to resolve themselves, except by tragic facts. This is where our responsibility lies: imagining a normative framework allowing respect for the rights and duties of each of the actors is an indispensable prerequisite for "living well together". In this way, communities must respect their legal obligations by providing sufficient areas and land adapted to the needs of these communities, in accordance with their traditions. As we all know, this is not always the case, far from it. Although the means used by the communities have increased, it appears that almost 30 per cent of the places provided for in the departmental schemes are still not achieved, and that territorial disparities are significant and contribute to complicating relations. Of course, these shortcomings are not always the result of local elected officials alone: the decline in state endowments and the scarcity of land in some tense areas are often opposed to the best wishes and inflame situations already in conflict. We can also make a second unanimous observation: illegal parking and facilities are on the increase, despite the increase in the number of places available. This illegal occupation of land – public and private, our colleague from La Verpillière has just said – regularly causes disturbances to public order, to the detriment of the residents and the forces of law and order, which would do without chronophageous mobilizations, in this period when the threats continue to grow, and to which I pay tribute to the passage. By the very admission of the prefects, the evacuation of these groups in illegal parking is particularly complex since they can easily settle on another nearby land shortly after their evacuation. All the local elected representatives know that this is only the case in a neighbouring municipality. In this context, we must strike a balance between respect for rights and duties, not only for travellers, but also for the municipalities and their groups. That is why the IDU, Action and Independent Group supports the spirit of this bill and is pleased to be able to participate in this debate. Indeed, by clarifying the role of the State and local and regional authorities, by modernising and simplifying procedures for the evacuation of illegal parking lots, and by strengthening criminal sanctions, we could find this balancing point absolutely necessary for the "good living together" on the territories. While we may have reservations about certain provisions that are considered repressive, we would like to acknowledge the work of our honourable senators, including that of Loïc Hervé, a member of the Centralist Union group, whom you all know. So, without commenting on the outcome of our debates and what will happen to this bill in the coming hours – if not in the coming minutes, which I obviously do not want – we regret the outright removal in committee of certain articles aimed at strengthening criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u380	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u381	When it comes to untitled occupation of land or destruction of public or private property, disproportionate repression is no more acceptable than organized laxism. Finally, responsibility is collective and shared. It is ill-accepted and, in some territories, as in my constituency, the Lochois, a growing tension, which is now reaching its peaks. The escalation in the difficult relations between the two sides, and with the communities and the forces of law and order, could end dramatically, I assure you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. It is time to strike a balance between the authority of the State and the support of nomadic populations. For the real question of substance is this: together with Ireland, France is the only Member State of the European Union to accept the itinerant way of life. Do we really accept nomadism in France? If so, we must provide the means for a truly coherent policy adapted to the well-being of each other. I told you, this renovation will not take place without a real involvement of the local; There is a need for legal support, training in new legislation and the transfer of good practices between departments, as some of them are calmly involved. However, if elected officials agree to recognize their need to supplement their knowledge of the matter, it is important that the State agrees to recognize a lack of law enforcement and respect for it on a daily basis by all. What is involved in the tension that I was echoing at the moment is not the establishment of a reception area in a territory, it is the feeling that, for the same law, there are two treatments by the authorities and that, in a similar situation, a Lambda citizen would have rightly been punished; As is not always the case in the other direction, it is always said in our territories – I would like to say this when I see my colleague Fabienne Colboc. The National Gendarmerie, the National Police and the judiciary do not have the relevant coercive means, without excessive repression, to punish those who commit unlawful offences, damage or installations. So I ask you, Madam Minister, to go further in the reflection and cooperation between the elected representatives, the police, the gendarmerie and the judiciary! And let us go further in the evolution of the law! It is about "living well together" in all territories. It is high time to put in place appropriate means for monitoring these populations on the socio-educational side, which is important, but also on the repressive side. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] "One thing is not right because it is law; but it must be law because it is right," Montesquieu wrote. So I suggest to you, Madam Minister, that we give a little republican justice in all these reports and that we collectively assume our responsibilities. I am quite sure that these debates will enrich the text adopted in committee and that we will be able to make sense of it, since a number of local elected representatives are systematically asking for action on this subject. We cannot allow an organized laxism, which does not go in the direction of "well living together" and which could even end dramatically in some territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u382	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u383	Madam President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, during the committee's consideration of this bill, the New Left Group shared a number of observations with the authors of the text, such as the increase in the number of illegal land uses, the difficulties encountered by local elected representatives in the face of illegal occupation or degradation on private land and the extreme tension they generate, and, of course, the need not to give the victims of such damage or illegal occupation the feeling of not being heard and being abandoned. But we also pointed to the imbalance of a bill that did not address the need to improve the reception of Travellers. It is only by multiplying the reception areas to meet the needs that a policy of indisputable and legitimate sanctions can then be established. However, this bill is part of a repressive bias, which places a disproportionate emphasis on the sanctions aspect without any real concern for the need to advance the law as well. The New Left Group continues, you will be aware, to regret the lack of time left for the equality and citizenship law, which was passed in the previous quinquennium, which amended the Besson law. It is also regrettable that this proposal is not concerned with measures to speed up the process of drawing up departmental plans, which is far from being completed and which is taking place over a long period of time. However, we welcome the development of this bill, following its consideration in committee and in the light of the amendments adopted therein. From now on, Article 1 states that, when revising the departmental scheme for the reception and accommodation of travellers, account shall be taken of any changes in the departmental scheme for intercommunal cooperation. In addition, an EPCI or a non-EPCI municipality can now fulfil its obligations as defined in the departmental plan for the reception and accommodation of Travellers, by contributing to the financing of the creation, development, maintenance and management of areas or land outside its territory. They may, for this purpose, conclude an agreement with one or more other IEPs or municipalities. Article 2 was amended at the initiative of the New Left Group. The recording procedure introduced by the Act of 27 January 2017 is, we believe, an improvement in the arrangements for the reception of Travellers, in so far as it allows the prefect of department to take effective and practical measures when the obligations laid down in the departmental scheme have not been complied with by the municipalities or the EPCIs. This is an incentive, and therefore desirable, which it was particularly inappropriate to want to abolish. Article 3a has been deleted. There was no evidence that the increase in a fee, in this case of EUR 50, was contributing to its efficiency. On the other hand, the apposition of the receipt on the vehicle used as a mobile residence was a discriminatory measure, in that it would concern only Travellers. Article 5 has also been deleted. It included measures that were clearly disproportionate in terms of freedom to go and come, but also discriminatory against Travellers. Chapter III, aimed at strengthening criminal sanctions, has been revised. The majority of the articles presented were also disproportionate, inapplicable or, even worse, unconstitutional, such as article 9, which would have allowed the vehicle to be confiscated, thus undermining the constitutional principle of the inviolability of the home. The New Left Group therefore welcomes the development of this bill, but would like to go further, by proposing an amendment to delete paragraph 9 of Article 4. This paragraph provides that the mayor may prohibit the parking of mobile residences on his territory, outside the reception area or existing family rental land, if the municipality complies with the requirements of the departmental scheme, even if the EPCI to which it belongs has not fulfilled all of its obligations. However, since the NOTRE Act of 2015, all EPCIs with own taxation are competent in the creation, development, maintenance and management of reception areas for Travellers and family rental land. This Community competence is exercised in accordance with the departmental scheme. As a result, as long as an EPCI does not meet all its obligations regarding the reception of Travellers, it is not consistent to allow one or more of its member communes to prohibit, on their territory, the parking of mobile residences outside reception areas or grounds. On the basis of these developments, it appears that this text no longer bears the excesses it contained in its original wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u384	He's not wearing anything anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u385	Nevertheless, it remains unbalanced and, above all, unfounded, since the Besson Act and the Equality and Citizenship Act have not yet achieved their objective of providing a balanced distribution in the country of reception areas for Travellers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u386	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u387	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, this bill is intended to amend the legal provisions concerning travelling life in France. It is, in our view, a regression of existing legislation, which required municipalities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation to guarantee the reception of our fellow citizens who have chosen a predominantly mobile way of life. My colleague, Panot, will go into more detail on our analysis of the problem of departmental schemes and on the alternative proposals that could be implemented. For my part, I wanted to go back to the impact of this bill on the relations between the communities and between our fellow citizens, as well as on a number of comments exchanged in committee. I would like to begin by lamenting that the use of the legal category of "travellers" has given way to somewhat problematic insinuations and amalgams in the Committee on Laws. We have heard some of our colleagues say, for example, "some members of this community, not everyone of course," and speak out with certain prejudices. The National Collectif des associations des citoyens itinerants noted in the following press release: "A number of deputies have expressed shocking and contemptuous prejudices about the travelling populations described as '' these people'', referring to ''wild occupations'' or ''invasion''. According to them, a feeling of ''most impunity'' would encourage travellers ''to continue and increase pressure''. These same deputies consider that'respect for traditions and lifestyles' is too often opposed to rejecting firm measures. All these comments shocked the travelling populations who have seen their way of life stigmatized. This press release also notes that while some of the most discriminatory provisions had been removed in committee, the group The Republicans returned to the burden by tabling amendments to restore them. All of this should challenge us about the very high risk of stigmatization of several aspects of this bill. It should be borne in mind that it was only in 2012 that the Constitutional Council ruled that the circulation documents were contrary to the Constitution, on the occasion of a priority issue of constitutionality, that is, a complaint by a victim of this legislative measure, who claimed his rights before the courts. The issue was not dealt with by national representation. This should encourage us to be cautious and urge us to vigorously defend the equality and freedoms of those who have chosen a traveling life. This also explains the lack of political will to enforce the existing laws aimed at promoting the existence of a travelling life within the Republic and respecting its rules. This lack of will is evident in communities that have not met legal objectives. While there are real financial obstacles to achieving these objectives in some departments, it is also difficult to deny the existence of political obstacles. This reluctance to treat a non-sedentary way of life with respect also exists within the State and among its representatives on the territory. The Law of 27 January 2017 on Equality and Citizenship provides for means to compel refractory EPCIs. Prefectures are now in a position to do so: the prefect or prefect can now order a failing municipality or EPCI to record in the hands of a public accountant the sums necessary for the implementation of the departmental scheme; These sums may either be returned as work progresses or may be used by the State in the alternative procedure. That this competence becomes effective is a request of the defender of the rights we support. These are effective means of ensuring a non-sedentary life under dignified conditions in a country with a majority sedentary population. This bill makes a misdiagnosis of real problems, which we do not underestimate. It does not provide a truly satisfactory solution in terms of public order, but also in terms of national cohesion and the objective of combating discrimination. On the contrary, it is part of a form of stigmatization of populations already victims of far too much prejudice and discrimination. That is why we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u388	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u389	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Travellers are not citizens in their own right, but French in their own right, most of the time economically integrated, into the ancestral way of life of homelessness, even though a fairly recent trend towards sedentarisation appears. Many pieces of legislation, including the two Besson Acts, have laid down rules within our territory for the best organisation of their reception and their habitat, in particular through the adoption, in each department, of schemes which determine the sectors and municipalities in which reception areas are to be built. The legislation is clear in that it allows communities, once they have fulfilled their obligations, to prohibit the parking of mobile homes outside the planned reception areas and to benefit from severe derogations from forced evacuation in the event of illegal parking. This draft law of the group The Republicans start from the assumption that elected officials do not have sufficient resources and prerogatives to stop the unrest caused by illegal settlements, which is false. In fact, it pursues a completely illegal dual objective: to enable communities to free themselves from their reception obligations, while at the same time placing a strong emphasis on the constraints that should be faced by the population of travellers, including at the criminal level.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u390	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u391	This political choice, to be without ambiguity, is nevertheless perfectly questionable. An important part of the difficulties and tensions which, it must be recognized, can exist is that the capacity to receive them is still in quantity, and sometimes even in quality, insufficient to meet the needs of the community. Today, barely 20% of the departmental plans are complete, only 50% of the required major crossing areas are completed and more than 30% of permanent reception places are still missing. These figures mask different geographical situations – as the Secretary of State said earlier, I will not go back to that. So the real answer is not to lift your foot, to break a laboriously crafted mechanics for thirty years, which still too often – we see it again this evening – encounters certain political inertias. On the contrary, it is necessary to continue efforts, to maintain the objectives of achieving reception areas, permanent or long-distance, and finally to have adequate and properly distributed infrastructures in the territory. That is why last week the Committee on Laws voted for amendments to abolish the provisions aimed at reducing the obligations of the communities or the constraints that may be imposed on them by the authority of the Prefect – for having performed this function, I know what I am talking about. I am thinking in particular of the abolition of the exclusion of the departmental schemes of the communities of communes which do not include communes with more than 5000 inhabitants; This measure would, in fact, exempt 45 per cent of communities from this constraint, even though the distribution of reception areas in the territory, including in rural areas, is at stake. I am also referring to the re-establishment of the procedure for the recording of funds after notice by the Prefect, in case of non-achievement of the objectives. With regard to the second aspect, that of the constraints to be imposed on travellers, it must be noted that the authors of the bill are only very far away from the basic principles of proportionality, so as not to use a more precise vocabulary. There is no doubt that Travellers are subjects of rights but, like everyone else, they must also respect the duties that underpin our republican pact. Recent legislation has significantly improved the capacity of public authorities to combat illegal settlements, including by creating ex officio and forced evacuation procedures without the intervention of the judge, in cases of unlawful parking and manifest disturbances of public order. Similarly, criminal law largely covers situations of untitled occupation or degradation. In these circumstances, there is no need to increase penalties, even though the difficulty lies more in the implementation of criminal policy in this area than in the strict quantity of penalties. Again, the Law Committee has re-established the essential balance by removing all the provisions of aggravation, not to mention – but I prefer not to dwell on this point at this point – measures such as the seizure of vehicles which also constitute the residence of travellers, or their transfer of office, which we may consider to be manifestly discriminatory. However, some provisions can still be retained in this text. There is no doubt that it is necessary to clarify the competences between the municipalities and the EPCIs, in particular, I say in my turn, to take account of the recent MAPTAM and NOTRE laws, and to introduce a flat-rate criminal procedure, which will allow forces on the ground to have a modern and adapted tool. Similarly, it is not inconceivable to leave the special police power to a mayor with a reception area, even if he is a member of an EPCI that has failed to comply with his obligations, or to change the advance information system of the authorities in case of large gatherings. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the end, I can only hope that all Members will agree with the vision that shows a balance between respect for the way of life of our fellow citizens from 250,000 to 300,000 and the necessary attention that we must pay to public tranquillity. The amendments adopted by the Law Committee are the exact expression of that fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u392	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u393	Madam President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "the Government is ready to consider proposals that better combat illegal land use". That is how you spoke, minister, to the senators on October 31. With the same ambition, we, along with my colleague Virginie Duby-Muller, have taken up the bill on the reception of Travellers and the fight against illegal facilities adopted in the Senate. We worked upstream with Jean-Claude Carle and Loïc Hervé, but also with you, Madam Minister, and your services – we met at the ministry in July, and you came to Haute-Savoie. However, the debates in the Committee on Laws, far from proving your willingness to solve the problem of illegal occupation of land by Travellers, have rather demonstrated the opposite. Your majority, by tabling and having amendments to delete six out of ten articles, has, at this stage, completely emptied this text of its substance. This proposal would probably deserve improvement, but that is what the shuttle is for, ladies and gentlemen. We believe that this is a good opportunity to make concrete proposals and thus send a signal to local and regional authorities, farmers, industry and the people who have to deal with this problem on a daily basis. But it must be noted that this is not your will at this stage. Contrary to what your majority has supported in the committee of laws, the bill on the reception of Travellers and the fight against illegal facilities is not intended to stigmatize the Traveller community. We respect their choice of non-sedentary lifestyle and are fully aware that, in many departments, some Travellers fully respect the rules and settle on large passage areas without any difficulty. We are also fully aware that, in some departments, the targets for the reception of Travellers are not fully met, and that approximately 30 per cent of the places available in the permanent reception areas are missing, in line with the requirements of the departmental plans. However, many departments have made efforts to bring the law into line by adopting departmental plans, which are now final. Of all this, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware of this. However, meeting the targets set for reception areas is absolutely not the guarantee that the problems of illegal facilities for Travellers will disappear. This is proof of the incidents that take place every year in my department, and again last year and this year. As you know, Minister, this department has set up large passageways: two fixed areas and three temporary areas. In addition, fourteen reception areas for groups of six to fifty caravans have been set up in various locations in the department. Although almost all of the objectives set out in the department plan were met, a number of incidents occurred last year as a result of the massive arrival and the unauthorised and repeated installation of Travellers. Many groups – not specific to my department – come to territories where they have not announced themselves, while they have an obligation to do so. These groups occupy areas planned for other groups, which sometimes refuse to settle in their turn, because they do not want to occupy an area where other Travellers are already present. As my colleague Arnaud Viala said in the Law Committee, in other departments, wild installations have even taken place on land related to the reception area. You will agree, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that these situations are simply no longer tenable in certain territories. As a result, there are strong tensions between elected officials, farmers, populations and different communities of Travellers. In terms of security, the risks are also significant, as these illegal facilities can be accompanied by verbal and physical violence. I pay tribute to the prefects, sub-prefects and gendarmerie forces, who, in certain departments, such as Haute-Savoie, are working full-time, from 15 April to 15 October, to help the actors concerned to manage the Travellers. Contrary to what the Secretary of State said earlier, there is an urgent need. We have never said anything stigmatizing. Our proposal is neither disproportionate nor unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u394	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u395	We are simply responding to a reality on the ground. Minister, you need to know what my colleagues don't know. In Haute-Savoie, at 1330 hours, Travellers invaded the school of Bons-en-Chablais. The principal was forced to set off the plan of attack. A significant part of the forces of the Haute-Savoie order went to this college, simply because individuals, probably settled nearby, had crossed the fences of a college, under conditions I do not know. That is what we live on a daily basis, ladies and gentlemen. You will agree, it is urgent to find solutions. Faced with this national problem, which has been recurring for several years, the proposed law on the reception of Travellers and the fight against illegal installations has a threefold objective: to clarify the role and obligations of each territorial community in the reception of Travellers, to modernise evacuation procedures and to strengthen criminal sanctions. It is not a question of weakening the obligations of local and regional authorities. However, as the previous speaker, a member of the Republic on the move – I thank him – admitted, the superimposition of the NOTRE and MAPTAM laws requires clarification of the respective roles of the municipalities and EPCIs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u396	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u397	We also wish to reintroduce in the draft law the abolition of the procedure for the recording of funds against the municipalities and EPCI not respecting the departmental scheme for the reception and housing of travellers. Under the Act of 27 January 2017 on equality and citizenship, this scheme does not in any way promote the creation of reception areas or grounds. Moreover, it is far too coercive against local and regional authorities and their groups. As the Court of Auditors has shown, the main difficulty lies in the financing of places in the reception area, the average unit cost of which is estimated at EUR 35,000. This difficulty is compounded by the decline in state subsidies – in some departments, the responsibilities of the national fund for equalization of intercommunal and communal resources over the past several years place local elected representatives in extremely difficult situations. With this text, we also wanted to respond to the problems they encounter during major gatherings and major passages, through the creation of an information mechanism enabling public authorities to anticipate and better organise them. I repeat: when 200 or 250 caravans arrive unexpectedly in a department, the whole tourist season is put in the air, and with it the organization of the departmental scheme. We will therefore defend amendments to restore Article 3a. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, this text does not in any way weaken the obligations of local and regional authorities. If you want them to comply more quickly, they must be assured in return that those who arrive in their territory respect the law. That is the basis of the balance on which the bill passed by the Senate is based. In our discussions in committee, several of us stressed the need to modernise procedures for the evacuation of illegal parking. While in the field they are effectively implemented, their effective implementation requires particularly long deadlines, not to mention private land, on which evacuations take place almost out of time – but Travellers are more focused on public land. In addition, it is increasingly common for communities of Travellers, once evicted by law enforcement, to relocate to another land – just to change the cadastral plot – in the same municipality or a few kilometres away, in a neighbouring municipality. The procedure laid down in the Besson Act must then be resumed from scratch. To remedy what is called – in an expression used by senators, which is not pejorative – "chip jumps," we wish to reintroduce in the bill the extension of the scope of application of the continued demand to leave the place throughout the territory of the municipality or the EPCI. The deadline for carrying out administrative evacuation procedures must also be reduced to 24 hours in the event of further illegal parking. Another measure that the re-establishment of section 5, in the Senate's drafting, is intended to defend: the extension of the grounds for challenge to infringements of property rights, freedom of movement of other inhabitants, freedom of trade and industry, and continuity of public service. Indeed, it is not acceptable for agricultural land to be destroyed, for factory areas for people who come to work there in the morning to be occupied and for commercial areas to be unable to open in the morning because their parking lots are occupied. We therefore propose the recognition of an infringement of economic activity. We will therefore support amendments aimed at re-establishing the doubling of penalties for unlawful occupation of land, bringing them to 12 months' imprisonment and a fine of EUR 7500, as well as the possibility of seizing tractor vehicles and not the housing itself – that is to say, to correct a misinterpretation of our bill. Finally, we will propose the creation of an aggravating circumstance applicable to the offence of destruction, degradation or deterioration of property belonging to others, as well as that of an offence of habitual occupation in assembly without title to the land of others. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we regret that you have completely emptied, in committee, the text from the Senate, by deleting most of the provisions of rule 6 and six of the eleven articles that it contains. If consideration of the bill is placed on the agenda of a parliamentary niche reserved for the Republican Group, of which the rapporteur is a member, we find nothing in the text that we are going to consider of the Senate's bill. On the substance, we believe that this is our bill; If the provisions of the text that we are proposing to re-establish are not, we will have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u398	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-05-O1179.u399	Next sitting, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the bill passed by the Senate on the reception of Travellers and the fight against illegal facilities. The meeting is adjourned.
