ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u2	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor to put his question, No. 271, on the integration of the Grosbois centre into the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u3	Madam Minister of Sport, France will have the honour of hosting the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024. The strength of the Paris application was that an estimated 95% of the necessary infrastructure already exists. This is an exceptional case, as international events of this magnitude usually involve considerable public expenditure to build the necessary infrastructure. The construction costs of the remaining infrastructure for Paris are still estimated at around €6.6 billion. In comparison, London 2012 and Rio 2016 cost almost double. One of the main reasons for this budget content is that many facilities, such as the Stade de France, the Palais omnisports de Bercy, the Roland Garros Stadium, the Zenith and the U Arena already exist. Today, it is planned that the equestrian events – dressage, horse racing, full competition, para-dressage and the modern pentathlon event – will take place in Versailles, and I welcome it. Île-de-France has internationally renowned equestrian facilities that can be mobilized for the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games to welcome and train riders and their horses. Minister, I am elected from the third electoral district of Val-de-Marne, which includes the Grosbois training centre. Do you intend to integrate this centre, the flagship of the trot, located at the gates of Paris, into the equestrian arrangements of these Olympic Games?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u4	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u5	Mr President, first of all I would like to assure you of my wish that the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 will benefit all territories. Our games must be those of all French and French: this is a priority of the Government. With regard to the training sites you mentioned, it is necessary to distinguish the fifty-one official training sites on the one hand, identified by the Paris 2024 committee from the candidacy phase and open to athletes 12 days before the start of the games, and on the other hand the pre-Olympic and Paralympic training camps, called "advanced base". The latter will be selected by the Olympic and Paralympic Games Organizing Committee – OCOG – as part of a procedure involving the deconcentrated services of the state, which will of course ensure a balanced territorial grid and good representation of the territories. These sites will then be offered to foreign delegations as early as 2020. To this end, a call for projects will be launched by the OCOG via a dematerialised platform, in autumn 2018, in order to identify all offers to the territories, as part of a global approach, after the OCOG has labeled the sites. This catalogue of sites will be distributed to foreign national Olympic committees and sports federations around the world in 2020. By the end of the Tokyo Games of 2020, France will become an immense training and preparation centre, an advanced base for all athletes in the world. I confirm that all local and regional authorities will be asked, so that each territory can present sites as part of the labelling and promote its best assets in terms of sports facilities or reception places necessary for the acclimatisation of Olympians and paralympians. As you pointed out, the Olympic and Paralympic horse riding competitions will take place in the Parc du Château de Versailles. The Grosbois training centre, if selected by the OCOG, will nevertheless be able to showcase all its assets, in order to be selected as a preparation site that can be offered to horseback riding federations around the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u6	The floor is open to Mr Pierre Henriet, to put his question, No 279, on the Atout-Linge integration structure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u7	Madam Minister of Labour, my question concerns the financial difficulties of Atout-Linge. This economic integration actor, specializing in laundry and clothing, welcomes long-term job seekers, beneficiaries of active solidarity income – RSA – and disabled people, in the South Salesian basin. Since 1 January 2017, the agreement signed with the decentralised administration and the departmental council contains a restriction that binds the payment of the amount of aid to the nature of the received public, long-term job seekers – DELD – or beneficiaries of the RSA. This structure is not the only one in France or in Vendée not to have been informed of a restrictive application of the conventions, which results in a drastic reduction of its resources. In addition, this decline comes after the application, from 1 January 2015, of the Law on Vocational Training, Employment and Social Democracy, which reduced the funds devoted to integration structures through economic activity because of the dual status of the public concerned: employees in integration and job seekers. The General Delegation for Employment and Vocational Training has been seized of the risks to the survival of these structures: everywhere in France, they start the year with a large cash deficit. Even if the issue of cash flow is resolved on an ad hoc basis, the choice remains as follows: to obtain the maximum amount of aid, contributing to the financing of fixed costs, they must limit themselves to welcoming a public able to assure them the maximum amount granted by the tripartite agreement, which excludes mainly long-term job seekers, who should nevertheless be the first beneficiaries. I ask you, Madam Minister, to provide an urgent response to the cash flow problems of these structures, and a long-term response, in the context of the reform of vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u8	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u9	Mr President, we agree on the importance of integration through economic activity – IAE. If, and this is my belief, no one is unemployable, the people most in difficulty, the farthest from the labour market nevertheless need a footstool, a step before they are trained or in employment. Integration through economic activity allows long-term job seekers, RSA beneficiaries, people with often multiple work and social difficulties to have initial work experience or to rediscover working life, before entering an ordinary job path. In this context, the Government has chosen to consolidate, as early as 2018, the appropriations dedicated to integration through economic activity, which had in the past experienced downward fluctuations. I pledge to maintain them. For example, €840 million was allocated under the 2018 Finance Act in order to further develop the integration sector through economic activity. For the first time, in 2018, we consolidated these credits with those allocated to job skills pathways within the Employment Inclusion Fund. This fund, with EUR 4 billion, gives regional prefects new room for manoeuvre to adapt the means to territorial problems, which are not all the same. There is a need to be able to assess the relevance of support elements in terms of structures and territories. This more fungible and deconcentrated approach will also make it possible to take better account of the situations of the various construction sites or integration enterprises through economic activity. Yes, IAE is essential for inclusion in employment. You're right, targeting audiences is fundamental. You alerted me to the difficulties of a structure, which would be linked to co-financing rules. The departmental councils, which are co-financers, sometimes define criteria which are in addition to those established at national level and which are more restrictive. However, it is interesting to analyse the problem with them, because the situations of people in difficulty, particularly the beneficiaries of the RSA, differ from one department to another. It can be understood that departmental councils want to "over-target" the system, if they are confronted with people who are particularly remote from employment. Nevertheless, I have asked the Regional Directorate for Enterprise, Competition, Consumer, Labour and Employment – DIRECCTE – to pay particular attention to this particular situation and to reach agreement with the Departmental Council on targeting. We all agree that the most difficult people need to be targeted, but we still need to adapt the system to the field. I repeat, the IAE is a relevant response, because it puts the situation at work and provides very important social and professional support: most of the beneficiaries of integration through economic activity also have health or housing problems, which are called peripheral problems but which are central to people's lives, and which contribute to their failure. It is therefore important that everything be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u10	Please conclude, Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u11	On the other hand, access to training is still insufficient, for the reasons you mentioned. That is why I wanted the IEA to be identified as a priority area of the Skills Investment Plan. A €20 million allocation will be set aside in 2018 to support integration structures through economic activity in the field of training.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u12	Mr Pierre Henriet has the floor, very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Vocational training, soon to be reformed, will have to strengthen the mechanisms of integration through economic activity, in particular by revising this conventional framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u14	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to put her question, No 281, on the reform of apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u15	Madam Minister of Labour, on 16 November last you announced the holding of a consultation on learning reform. While almost 20 per cent of young people aged 15-24 are job-seekers, there are reportedly 300,000 unfilled jobs in the labour market, which is disconcerting. One out of every three high school students is now enrolled in the vocational school system, i.e. 700000 pupils. This is the path of excellence, and we must develop it. Today, alternation is a major asset for the training of qualified young people, who will tomorrow be the pillars of our businesses. While we agree that companies deserve much more consultation and at the heart of apprenticeship policies, the orientation of this reform seems to be contrary to the very interests of apprentices. This reform is a recentralisation of one of the first decentralised policies; It is simply the privatisation of apprenticeship, entrusted to the professional branches. The financing of the contract presents a major risk, particularly in terms of spatial planning, since it does not take account of local disparities. This new system creates a great complexity, since nearly 700 branches will replace the unique interlocutor of the region. Only the training followed by a large number of apprentices will be sustainable. In the same vein, the proposed governance is far removed from the realities of the territories and businesses, while the region is best placed to adapt the offer of vocational training to the needs of the enterprises of the territory. For the regions, the reform of guidance is also the main key to succeeding in upgrading and developing learning in France. It is also a strong expectation of young people and families. The current weakness of the system has been unanimously denounced by the French. Minister, what funding are you planning for production schools, apprenticeship training centres – CFA – transportation, catering and accommodation for apprentices, and the acquisition of their first equipment? How do you envisage the sharing of technical platforms between professional high schools and CFA?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u16	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u17	Madam Member, we agree on the first of the two points that you have raised: the importance of developing apprenticeships massively, while 1.3 million young people in France do not plan for the future, having neither employment nor training. In a few weeks, I will have the pleasure and the honour to introduce the bill for the freedom to choose one's professional future. We will have a lot of time to discuss these issues, and I hope I can convince you. In this area, there are a lot of brakes: orientation, labour code, rigidity of training... I will not go into all the details of the reform. One of these obstacles, therefore, today is financing. Today, not all learning money goes to learning. Thus, out of the 235 million euros transferred in 2016 by the State to the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, which you know well, the region has spent only 195 million euros. The situation is similar in other regions. The current funding does not, therefore, allow it to spend all the money on learning. In order to remedy this, it is necessary to build something simpler, guaranteeing above all that whenever a young person signs an apprenticeship contract with a company, the financing of the training is ensured. This is the subject of the reform. We therefore want to move from a funding system to a balance grant to a financing at contract cost to enable apprenticeship training centres to develop without hindrance and to be encouraged to go and look for young people and businesses. They will be sure to receive additional funding for each young person while today, regardless of the number of young people, the grant cannot increase. As you said, it is also appropriate to address the issues of investment and land use planning. As far as investment is concerned, it is the regions that are competent, and they will remain so in the bill that I will be defending. Today, nearly 200 million are coming from the ICTPE – domestic consumption tax on energy products. They will be maintained in the new system. It is the regions which are competent, both as regards vocational lycées and CFAs. This is a good thing, as you pointed out, because it allows us to create campuses, common technical platforms, in order to promote mutualization and thus to make good use of public money. In addition, it brings CFAs closer to high schools, which is a good thing since we also want to create bridges between school status and apprenticeship status. From this point of view, there will be no change. The financing of accommodation, the restoration of apprentices will not change. On the other hand, and this is a new development, an allocation of 250 million will be transferred from the State to the regions so that, in addition to the cost to the contract guaranteeing the essentials for all CFAs, 20% additional funding will be allocated to CFAs, particularly in rural areas or in priority areas of the city, which would have complementary needs, taking into account the importance of spatial balance. We agree on one point: it is important to have an offer of proximity throughout the territory. In total, there will be more money for learning, funding will be more fluid, more direct for CFAs. I am counting on the regions to continue their efforts at structural investment. There is neither centralisation – the state does not recover any competence – nor privatisation: learning is the responsibility of the public authorities, in particular the regions, but also the companies with regard to the contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u18	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor very briefly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u19	It is true that the mobility of our apprentices is one of the main brakes. So we want to have CFAs all over the place. In Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, we have put a lot of money, much more than we receive...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u20	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u21	... both in investment and operation. We will discuss it again during the debates, since I have the figures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u22	Me too.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u23	Thank you. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. I would simply point out, minister, that the overall six-minute deadline includes a possible response from the parliamentarian to the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u24	Yes, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u25	Mr Benoit Potterie, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No 278 on the financing of the projects of the European Social Fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u26	Madam Minister, I would like to alert you to the slow and complex access to European funding for companies and associations, a subject that concerns many structures in my constituency. I am thinking in particular of the European Social Fund – ESF. The ESF finances projects with the aim of reducing disparities in development between the regions of the European Union. It is a good project, but the slow and complex approach hinders its effectiveness. I recently discussed this with the local plan for integration and employment – PLIE – of the Audomarois. PLIEs are essential elements of employment policy. They offer personalized support for those who are furthest from it and their contribution is important for the most vulnerable audiences. The Audomar PLIE is heavily dependent on European funds, with 60% of its grants coming from the ESF, but the training procedures are very complex and many cases are refused for simple errors of form. On the other hand, delays in the disbursement of funds can be very long. As far as the Audomarois PLIE is concerned, the minimum period is 24 months after the first expenses incurred! Under these conditions, structures using the ESF are sometimes obliged to resort to debt transfers with banks, which creates significant financial burdens for them. Some structures are threatened with recovery. I welcome the commitment of the French Government to modernising the European institutions. Much has already been done, and I can see the difficulties he is facing. In recognition of your commitment, Madam Minister, I would therefore like to alert you to this situation, and ask you whether this issue is on the agenda of your discussions with your European counterparts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u27	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u28	The ESF, created in 1957 by the Treaty of Rome, represents something important in France, with €6 billion in funding coming from it for the period 2014-2020. That being said, you are right, it is necessary to simplify its methods of action. This is a priority shared by both the European Commission and the French Government, in particular in preparing for the future of the European Structural and Investment Funds. The ESF is a very good illustration of Europe's contribution to France, but if we need more Europe, we need above all "better Europe", which means much simpler and much faster procedures, you said. The management of the ESF also often involves intermediaries. The local plan for integration and employment in the Audomarois is carried out by the association PLIE de l'Audomarois and is thus part of one of the six PLIE members of the intermediate organization OCAPLIE. The overall grant is granted to the latter, which then redistributes it to the PLIEs. The PLIE de l'Audomarois has been facing financial but also institutional difficulties since 2017. They come from both local and regional authorities, whose commitments must come in return for the ESF, and from the often slow pace of management of the ESF itself. Many exchanges have taken place, but such a situation does not depend directly on the department's services, since OCAPLIE receives the money. We cannot therefore intervene directly, but we have taken into account the possible cash flow difficulties that these malfunctions or delays may cause. At regional level, my Ministry has granted a cash advance to overcome any difficulties during the period 2018-2020, as long as we are contributing to the reform of the ESF. With regard to the amounts expected in return for the call for funds, the departments of the Ministry have already made exceptional reimbursements of these expenses before the payment by the Commission of the corresponding ESF appropriations. We will ensure and work to make things simpler in the future and no longer need to make cash advances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u29	There's work to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u30	Any answer, Mr. Potterie?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u31	Just to thank the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u32	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor to put her question, No. 266, on the recycling of end-of-life vehicles in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u33	While dengue is in the epidemic phase in Réunion and the elimination of larval gites becomes imperative, the issue of the treatment of end-of-life vehicles arises with renewed acuity. These wrecks are indeed conducive to the development of mosquito larvae, vectors of dengue and, we remember, chikungunya. Since the transposition into French law of the European Directive in 2011, the export and management of end-of-life vehicles cannot be carried out outside the European Union. However, this legislation quickly appeared to be inadequate for the overseas regions because of the lack of suitable grinding tools and, of course, geographical distance. As of 2011, the Directorate-General for Risk Prevention granted La Réunion a tolerance in order to allow operators to export their end-of-life vehicles to India, Indonesia and more broadly to the Indian Ocean area. Materialized by e-mail, this derogation from the environmental code has been renewed every year but without ever having a legal basis. Since this situation is not expected to continue, significant investments have been made with the financial support of Europe, the State and the Reunion Region. Subsequently, a prefectural order and approval authorized these grinding activities, which started in 2016. The Reunion is now able to process and value all metal waste on site, but also to produce a second generation raw material of very high quality. Against all logic, however, the derogation is maintained. On several occasions, the Ministry of the Environment has never acted on this issue. In addition to ignoring the existence of new efficient processing tools, this status quo threatens production in La Réunion of recycled steel – the E40, for specialists – on the one hand, and, of course, job creation on the other. This tolerance runs counter to the necessary relocation of value added and the development of the circular economy. It also worsens marine pollution as waste has to travel long distances. My question is therefore: will the Government allow the application to the Meeting of article R. 543-161 of the Environmental Code?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u34	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u35	Madam Member, you have interviewed Mr Nicolas Hulot, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. The activities of the motor vehicle deconstruction sector address important issues, particularly in the overseas territories. It primarily addresses environmental issues, as this sector ensures the clean-up of vehicles at the end of their life, and allows the reuse of spare parts and the recycling of materials from them. It also participates in economic activity through the local jobs it generates. The Meeting has seven approved deconstruction centres for end-of-life vehicles and two approved shredders, which enable all end-of-life vehicles on the island to be taken over. Finally, it helps to prevent health risks, as you have pointed out, because abandoned end-of-life vehicles are privileged lodgings for the development of mosquitoes and these are vectors of diseases that can be serious. In La Réunion, around 5000 vehicles are supported free of charge each year by the approved networks, with satisfactory recycling and valorisation performance of around 85% of the vehicle mass. However, in La Réunion, as in other overseas territories, a number of vehicles are abandoned on public roads and on private land, often by people who deconstruct them illegally to recover only valuable spare parts. In the territory of La Réunion, the number of these abandoned vehicles is estimated at about ten thousand. On the basis of the recommendations made on this issue in the 2015 report by MP Letchimy, a decree issued in April 2017 calls on car manufacturers to implement a plan of action targeted at overseas communities, aimed at collecting and treating these abandoned vehicles, in conjunction with local authorities. Awareness-raising measures for the inhabitants are also planned to prevent the abandonment of these vehicles or their recovery through the illegal sector. In accordance with this plan, at the end of March 2018 the car manufacturers launched the first operations to collect abandoned vehicles in Guadeloupe and Martinique, as part of an experimental phase involving 3000 vehicles. On the basis of this experiment, car manufacturers will expand this action in La Réunion in the coming months. At the same time, the inspection services of my Ministry's classified facilities are stepping up their fight against the illegal vehicle deconstruction process. Issues relating to the collection of end-of-life vehicles are also part of a specific national issue and will be the subject of specific announcements at the forthcoming publication of the road map on the circular economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u36	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to raise her question, No 273, on the free movement of the francilian part of the A10 motorway.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u37	I associate my colleagues from Yvelines and Essonne Béatrice Piron, Jean-Noël Barrot, Bruno Millienne, Amélie de Montchalin, Marie-Pierre Rixain and Laëtitia Romeiro Dias with my question. As you know, Madam Minister, the French are not equal in terms of mobility, including in the heart of the Île-de-France region. The situation is particularly problematic for the inhabitants of South Yvelines and Essonne when they have to reach the capital by using the A10 motorway, on which a toll barrier at the level of Dourdan is installed. The A10 is thus paid, in the heart of the Île-de-France region, just 23 kilometres from Paris. The presence of a toll on a francilian motorway so close to the capital is, in our view, a breach of equality between citizens and between territories: in Île-de-France, most motorways are indeed paid from about 45 kilometers from Paris. Even in 2018, many peri-urban areas are still underserved by public transport. The use of the car is therefore necessary for the inhabitants as part of their journeys between their home and their place of work. To go to work and take the motorway, the Francilians can spend up to 1300 euros per year and per vehicle. Alternatively, drivers and heavy goods vehicles are forced to refer to the secondary network. Dispersal of vehicle flow on this network, particularly on the RN20, causes saturation. The result is an increase in travel time, greater CO2 emissions, nuisances for residents and increased dangerousness of these roads. For years, elected representatives and associations of the Yvelines and Essonne have been fighting to obtain the free of charge of this motorway used daily by the inhabitants of our territories. According to the associations, the free of charge of the francilian portion of the A10 would represent for the dealer Cofiroute only 8 to 10 million euros of loss of profits, for a net profit of 330 million euros for the year 2016, still increasing by 15% compared to the previous year. Minister, what measures is the Government prepared to take to support mobility and facilitate the movement of the Francilians who depend on this motorway route?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u38	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u39	Madam Member, you are calling my attention to the section of the A10 motorway that crosses the Île-de-France and I would like to assure you that I am very attentive to the situation of users who use the francilian section of the A10 motorway on a daily basis. This motorway is granted to Cofiroute until 2034 and the contractual links between the State and the said company provide for the application of a toll on the section of the A10 between Allainville and La Folie-Bessin, i.e. at the level of the connection of the RN 118 near the Ulis. The section linking Dourdan to La Folie-Bessin consists of local users and transit users who use the A11 and A10. However, a consistent case-law of the Council of State requires that the principle of equality in the pricing of users be respected, which precludes the possibility of establishing free treatment for the benefit of the Francilians alone. The toll should therefore be purchased for the entire journeys carried out on this section over a calculated period until the end of Cofiroute's concession contract. The estimated amount of such a buy-back is estimated at several hundred million euros, which does not appear to be possible for the state or for the communities. In this context, significant efforts have been made by the State and the concessionaire to improve the conditions of use of the A10 motorway. For example, preferential subscription arrangements have been put in place for regular users using the Dourdan broadcaster. Preferential rates for carpooling are also offered, along with carpooling areas in Ablis, Allainville and Dourdan. The renovation of the co-modality site of the Dourdan - Longvilliers interchange includes the creation of 100 additional parking spaces and the construction of a bus station. Finally, the State is working to improve the supply of public transport on the A10 motorway, experimenting, for example, with a route reserved for regular bus lines running between Les Ulis and Massy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u40	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u41	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification. I think it would be useful for the associations and elected representatives of these territories to be received, so that we can think together about even more innovative solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u42	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to raise her question, No. 284, concerning the closure of stations in Maurienne.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u43	The Minister of Transport, a few weeks ago, SNCF unilaterally announced the closure of the windows and buildings of several stations in Savoie, two of which were in the Maurienne valley, that of Saint-Avre - La Chambre and Saint-Michel-de-Maurienne. It also announced a drastic reduction in the hourly amplitude of the last two stations still open out of the six that this cross-border valley once had, the longest of the Alps: Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne and Modane. Balance sheet: the abolition of 15 posts in the territory by 1 September. However, the stations that will be closed are used daily by users working in the Chamberian basin, or even beyond, and by high school students. Do you know what it's like to stand on the dock at seven o'clock in the morning in an alpine valley, when it's ten degrees below zero and your train is late? In addition, the Saint-Avre station is used daily by some 40 disabled workers, a fragile population that will now remain outside and without any supervision. La Savoie is one of the main tourist departments of France, with 731000 tourist beds. The tourist population deserves a proper reception, even outside the weekends. Savoys are one of the most dynamic demographic territories. They are also areas where more and more air quality statements are being made, and less and less effort is being made in favour of the train. These decisions are the exact opposite of what should be done to promote clean transport and quality service in these dynamic and fragile territories. Finally, Madam Minister, for thirty years, whether it is freight or passenger service, the SNCF has continuously reduced service in Maurienne, which is a cross-border valley. And the posts currently offered to those affected by this restructuring are in Annemasse. Who are we laughing at? People have built their lives in our valley and are attached to it. Do you know how long it takes to get from Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne to Annemasse? So, Madam Minister, can you make me aware of your real desire to preserve this public service in the Maurian valley and more generally in the Alpine valleys, by maintaining open stations, in order to meet the minimum needs of users? Do you agree to help us save the two stations threatened with closure? Why not consider that these territories, which have been sacrificed in recent years, provide a number of deconcentrated services for SNCF, at a very digital time? Would it not be possible to break down the various services, in order to facilitate the retention of personnel in the territory, in other posts? Finally, I would like to point out that the activity of these stations has remained stable in recent years. Minister, we do not agree with these closures: it seems to us that these decisions are not relevant and we would like to know how you can help us get back on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u44	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u45	Madam Member, you are asking me about the total or partial closure of passenger windows and buildings at certain stations in the Maurienne. First of all, I would like to point out that in any event the closure of a ticket office or a station building is not synonymous with the abolition of the service. In this case, there is no change in the service of the stations you mention. The policy of opening windows and buildings at regional railway stations is a matter of contracting between the operator and the region, as the organising authority for regional rail services, insofar as it bears the cost. In the current context of controlling public spending, it seems understandable that the region is ensuring a satisfactory balance between the interest of the service offered to travellers and its cost to the taxpayer. The State, in application of the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities, does not intervene in this choice. However, I am committed to the fact that the SNCF, in connection with the region, is examining the alternative means of reducing the impact on users of the closure of the windows, for example by entrusting the distribution of regional transport tickets to establishments located in the vicinity of the station, such as a tourist office or a newspaper merchant. Titles can sometimes also be sold on board TERs. With regard to the Saint-Avre station - La Chambre, the opening of the point of sale will be maintained during a period of winter peak, in this case Saturdays and Sundays from 15 December to 15 April.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u46	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u47	Madam Minister, I would ask you, if you will, to help us find solutions with SNCF to prevent people from having to wait for their train outside, especially in the winter.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u48	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor to put his question, No. 274, on mining damage in Rosbruck.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u49	My question is addressed to the Minister of Economy and Finance. In the early 1980s, building permits were issued in Rosbruck, Weihergraben, Moselle East. The topographical situation at the time located these buildings six metres above the flood level of the Rosselle River, the river irrigating this territory. At the same time, the Houillères of the Lorrain Basin operated the Rosbruck basement, more than 1000 metres deep. Since then, the entire village has been subjected to landslides that have led to major building disruptions. The Weihergraben district is a paroxysmic illustration of mining damage. Today, constructions are leaning dangerously and cracking. They are now nine metres below the Rosselle's flood level, which means that they have been submerged fifteen metres, equivalent to the height of a four-storey building. This reverses the natural direction of water flow. A protective dam has been built, but if it breaks down, the Weihergraben will turn into a lake, without the possibility of draining water. The 39 houses in the neighbourhood are now classified as a floodable red area due to natural risk. The source of the problem, Madam Minister, is mining, not natural. The inhabitants of Weihergraben live in houses that have up to five centimetres per metre of horizontal variation. They are calling for a Mine Risk Prevention Plan – PPRM. The already critical situation of the inhabitants of the area is further aggravated by the halting of pumping of mining water. In the long term, the level of the water table will be three metres below the foundations of their homes. Double pain, could we say! In the light of the situation, the public industrial and commercial establishment that had taken over Charbonnages de France was dissolved at the end of 2017, after appealing a court decision in favour of Rosbruck. The eastern Mosellan mining basin contributed significantly to the recovery of post-war France, thanks to the black Gules. They have amply deserved that the state does not abandon them. What does the Minister of Economy and Finance intend to do to reassure our citizens in Rosbruck about the state's concern?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u50	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u51	Mr President, you have questioned the Minister of Economy and Finance, but the mining risk falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition is fully aware of the responsibilities of the State in the management of mining risks after the end of the operation. The Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition devotes almost 40 million euros each year to the repair of mine damage and the prevention of mining risks, whether they be monitoring or safety work. In particular, with regard to the Lorrain Coal Basin, in addition to the cessation of mining, the sector has experienced a significant decrease in the rate of mining in industries and communities since the early 2000s. The observed rise of the tablecloth, which tends to return to its natural level, is therefore not the sole source of the former mining operation. However, in order to deal with this phenomenon, the State has since 2009 undertaken and financed water pumping and treatment works amounting to €7.4 million. The State also monitors, through a piezometer network, the western sector of the Lorrain coal basin, which is most immediately affected by the upwelling. Moreover, in this sector, areas that have been submerged as a result of mining are not the only ones affected by the risk of flooding. This is why the State has planned to use the establishment of a flood risk prevention plan – PPRI – for the entire Lorrain coal basin, whether it is submerged or not, and regardless of the type of flood, by overflow or by upwelling. The prescription of this IPP does not call into question the State's responsibility for post-mine matters. As a result, specifically in areas affected by the former mining operation, and even in the absence of a Mine Risk Prevention Plan, if collective prevention measures are necessary to avoid mining damage, they will continue to be implemented and funded by the State under the post-mine scheme. Apart from these cases of prevention related to past mining activity, the advantage of establishing an IPP lies in the possible intervention of the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards – FPRNM – which can only be considered in the case of a natural risk, defined in article L. 562-1 of the Environmental Code, of which floods are part. Thus, the State already assumes full responsibility for post-mining. It is taking and will continue to take the necessary measures to deal with the phenomenon of flooding in submerged areas, even if it is not exclusively of mining origin. As for the measures that could be prescribed to individuals, including the inhabitants of Rosbruck, to deal with the natural risk of flooding, it is important to specify that their cost cannot exceed 10% of the market value of the property concerned. In addition, the State, through the FPRNM, will be able to participate in the financing of these measures up to 40 % for goods used for housing or up to 20 % for goods used in professional activities for enterprises with less than 20 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u52	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u53	Thank you for your response, Minister, and I note that the Crown will take its responsibility in the event of a flood. But, in order to reassure the inhabitants of this mining basin, which, I repeat, contributed heavily to France's recovery in the post-war period, it would seem useful for a member of your services to bother to move on the ground. I assure you, it is impressive to be in a house where the ground has a rise of five centimetres per meter! To give you an idea of the problem, these houses are obliged to have four flows per gutter, because the direction of water flow varies from year to year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u54	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u55	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u56	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to put her question, No. 286, on the Collège Jacques-Prévert in Lorrez-le-Bocage.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u57	Mr Minister of National Education, through the example of the Collège Jacques-Prévert located in Lorrez-le-Bocage, in my constituency of the south Seine-et-Marne, I would like to echo the concerns of the parents of pupils and teachers in rural areas. Of the 510 students in this college, 40% come from disadvantaged professional social classes, and the school has many difficulties: thirty-three students benefit from an individualised reception project, forty of a personalized support plan, nine are accompanied by a school life assistant, eleven are followed by the departmental house of disabled people and two come from an educational and pedagogical therapeutic institute. Moreover, absent teachers are not replaced. The rectorate has every difficulty in finding teachers who agree to come in great crown from Île-de-France. For example, last year, a fifth class did not have a French course for a full term following sick leave. This year, the Spanish teacher has been absent for two and a half months, which penalizes all fourth-grade students and half of third-grade students, i.e. 167 students. And I am not talking about the lack of specialized ULIS-type structures – localised units for school inclusion – or SEGPA – adapted general and vocational education section. In 2014, this college was classified as ZEP – a priority education area – but this is no longer the case today. This downgrading was experienced as a betrayal and abandonment of the rural world. Last year, a class was abolished. As if that wasn't enough, the bad news continues to fall. Today, two classes are again threatened with closure next year. The College of Lorrez-le-Bocage, which is characteristic of the rural world, sees the conditions for the reception of pupils deteriorate year after year, despite the goodwill of staff and teachers. Minister, when will you assess the needs of rural schools? Will you be able to smooth these two closures over two years, so as not to severely penalize those college students who need a particular follow-up?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u58	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u59	Mr President, Mrs Valérie Lacroute, you are asking me about the colleges in rural areas, to which I pay particular attention. I have spoken a lot on this subject lately. You mentioned the significant situation of the Collège Jacques-Prévert de Lorrez-le-Bocage, which I know, in the south of the Seine-et-Marne, very close to the Burgundy-Franche-Comté and Centre-Val de Loire regions. It is true that this college is experiencing an erosion of its staff which leads to the consideration of two division closures in the beginning of 2018, strictly linked to this erosion. If this college was removed from the priority education map during the last revision, at the start of 2015, it was that other schools concentrated more social and school difficulties. This is, in any case, what the data show. Of course, there must be accompanying measures for the establishment in such cases. The 2017 school year will be marked, in fact, by a reinforced social mix in this college: 38% of students from households belonging to professions and social categories – PCS – favored, 26% from average PCS and 36% from disadvantaged PCS. It is almost an archetype of social mix, with a three-thirds distribution. The consequences for the college of its exit from priority education have been smoothed over time. Particular attention was paid to this last year. The academic direction of the departmental services of the Seine-et-Marne has long applied a policy of progressive allocation of resources, depending on the social characteristics of the pupils and the specificities of each institution, which has the effect of greatly reducing the effects of thresholds induced by the classification or not in priority education. I have also begun a reflection to further reduce these threshold effects. I would also point out that the Collège Jacques-Prévert, because of the particular configuration of its buildings, benefits from a greater allocation of means of educational assistance. To meet the needs of welcoming students with special needs, each year we create ULIS in the first degree and in college, as close as possible to the needs. Thus, four ULIS and three SEGPA are located between nineteen and twenty-two kilometres from Lorrez-le-Bocage. A fifth ULIS will be opened at the start of 2018 in Montereau-Fault-Yonne, 19 kilometres from Lorrez-le-Bocage, as well as a fourth SEGPA within the same geographical radius. Jacques-Prévert College, on the other hand, has ten students recognized as disabled by the departmental house of disabled persons, which represents less than 2% of its total staff, when the departmental average is 3% per institution. The College does not therefore have any particular specificity in this respect. You know how important I am to replacing the absent teachers. This is one of the main problems of the school system. But despite the geographical distance from the Collège Jacques-Prévert, I would like to point out that all requests for replacement have been met since the beginning of September, with the exception of a short replacement in English, two weeks, and the replacement you spoke of in Spanish, a discipline in which the poverty of the replacement pool delays the establishment of a solution. We have addressed this problem, but for the rest, improvement is already undeniable from one school year to the next. Finally, let us remember that the Collège Jacques-Prévert has integrated an experimental artistic and cultural project, in connection with the regional direction of cultural affairs, in the spirit of what we wanted with the Minister of Culture, and in connection with the departmental council, to develop the residences of artists in rural areas and to diversify the cultural offer made to students. I will remain attentive to this colleague and to all rural colleges.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u60	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor very briefly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that you share my concerns. What needs to be understood...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u62	Thank you, ma'am...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u63	Already!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u64	Yes. I remind everyone that the six-minute deadline includes the MP's possible response to the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u65	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor to put his question, No. 295, concerning the closure of classes in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u66	Minister, in the Northern Department, about a quarter of the population lives in rural areas. At the initiative of the Northern Departmental Council and its Vice-President in charge of Rurality, the association of Northern Mayors and the departmental departments of your ministry worked, to reach the conclusion, on February 8, 2017, of the signing of a charter of the rural school. This charter provides for commitments to 241 out of the 648 communes in our department, for three years from the beginning of last year. This work was to be welcomed by the Secretary of State in charge of Digital and Innovation in the Senate on February 21, 2017. The President of the Republic had himself stated at the Conference of Territories on 17 July that the Territories could no longer be the adjustment variable, and that that was why there would no longer be class closures in rural territories. Minister, in my riding, largely rural, there are no fewer than 23 closures. The parents of pupils, present here, and the elected representatives have mobilized strongly: petitions, demonstrations, day and night occupations of schools, sale of school furniture on Le Bon coin have rhythmed in recent weeks. The mayor of Maretz, a small town of 1451 inhabitants, told me to be ready to pay the salary of the teaching post that he will lose next year! That is to tell you how dear rural schools are to us. A class closure is always experienced as an attack on the integrity of a municipality. Please stop doing the yoyo every year with openings and class closures, especially for one or two more children or less! Sometimes we even close a class to reopen it the following year! What is most unworthy of parents and elected representatives is that, within a limited geographical radius, we can open classes of twelve pupils for the duplication of CP or CE1 and maintain the system "more teachers than classes" with two teachers per class, and, a few kilometres away, close classes in intercommunal pedagogical grouping, to one, two or three pupils near! I conclude that we must reason by territory, not by commune, and agree on the definition of rurality in France and rural school in particular. Where, in the North, the ministry sees 57 rural communes, the prefecture has more than 200 and the department of the North 474! Minister, apart from the INSEE definition, there is no definition of rurality adaptable to national education. I suggest you work on it. I worked on the implementation of the SDAASP – departmental plan for improving services to the public – on the Northern Department...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u67	My dear colleague, we must conclude, if you want an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u68	Mr Minister, rural areas should receive the same attention as schools in cities classified as a priority education network, which will benefit, from this year onwards, from double classes of twelve pupils.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u69	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u70	Thank you for your question, honourable Member, which allows me to elaborate on this subject which is particularly dear to me. We will agree on the substance because we share the same concern of the rural school, of which I care no less than you. This question refers first and foremost to demographic issues, which deserve important work. Our only difference will be the description you're making of the preparation for next re-entry. I cannot let it be said that we neglect rural schools. This is the most false thing that emerges from the public debate right now. This is unacceptable, especially since the figures speak for themselves. I'm quoting them because they also apply to your department. There will be 32,000 fewer students in the first degree next year and we create 3,881 teaching positions in schools. Supervisory rates will increase in each department, including yours. We create 220 jobs next year in the Northern Department, despite a planned drop in the number of 2,496 students. The departmental ratio of the number of teachers per 100 pupils will be 5.68 at the start of 2018 in the Northern Department, compared to 5.52 at the beginning of 2017. It is important to make an accurate diagnosis, based on reality. We often talk about the battle of numbers, but the ones I present here are perfectly verifiable by everyone: there will be no other "true number" that will say the opposite! In short, the effort is real. My other point of divergence with you is my refusal to oppose rural to urban. On the one hand, there are REP classes in rural areas, especially in your department. The system of classes of twelve pupils therefore benefits both rural and urban areas, and we must not oppose both, although it is mostly urban areas that benefit from this scheme. On the other hand, the rates of supervision today, precisely because of the specific attention we pay to rural areas, are more favourable in rural than in urban areas. As long as we agree to tell the truth about it, I will always be present to work substantively on the issues that you have rightly pointed out. You are right: we must make a positive change in the definition of territories in order to have a broader view of them. We must also avoid certain absurd decisions related to too mechanical consideration of threshold effects. I'm very open on the subject. I am therefore in favour of your proposal to reflect with national representation on the issues involved in the definition of rural areas. We are also beginning to do so within the framework of the departmental rural agreements, including with the Northern Department. We can, of course, in the future further improve this thinking. I would like to assure you of my full attention to this question, which also refers us to the remedies that we must find, all together, to another issue that goes beyond school: that of the decline in the population in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u71	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to put her question, No 290, on the consequences of reducing compulsory education.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u72	Mr. Minister of National Education, on 27 March, the President of the Republic announced, on the occasion of the launch of the work of the assizes of kindergarten, that the age at which education would become compulsory would be lowered to three years, which is, moreover, already in effect since almost all children are enrolled at that age. As you know, municipalities and certain intercommunalities contribute to the running costs of private educational institutions under a contract of association with the State under the communal scheme. This obligation now applies only to primary school, since it is justified in the name of equal treatment between children when their education is compulsory. In the context of declining allocations, still prevailing this year, communities cannot bear the financial burden of extending the obligation to pay a lump sum to all kindergarten classes. I would add that the contribution created would be all the more burdensome because the cost of schooling of children is higher in kindergarten than in primary school, because of the important complementary supervision provided, among other things, by ATSEM – the specialized territorial agents of nursery schools – alongside the teachers of schools. Despite the opportunities that have been given to you in recent weeks, you have not made a clear statement on the intentions of the Government. Will the municipalities, yes or no, have to pay a communal fee for kindergarten classes in private schools? If so, how will the State compensate for this new burden? If not, are you considering going back to the 1959 Debré law to clarify the form of association contracts?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u73	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u74	Madam Member, your question tends to minimize the positive impact of the reform announced by the President of the Republic and to maximize the concerns it may raise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u75	No, really not.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u76	If that is not the case, I welcome it. As a first step, I would like to recall the reasons for this historic decision. As the subject is to be dealt with in a future bill, we have ample time to work on its various consequences. In short, let's look at why before we consider how. This new educational obligation is not to be minimized. You said that three-year schooling was already a reality, but it is only true for just over 95% of children: more than 20,000 children are not affected. I do not consider this to be negligible, especially as this number tends to increase and may be much larger in some territories, such as the overseas. In addition, this trend may correspond to rather disturbing societal phenomena, such as the non-schooling of girls. I am sure that this issue concerns you as well. This measure is therefore part of a general student success strategy, with an emphasis on the importance of kindergarten, where much is done about the development and language skills of children. Both in social and educational terms, this measure is of great importance: it makes it possible to affirm the identity of the nursery school itself. The assizes of the nursery school, which were presided over by Boris Cyrulnik, were the occasion to remind him. The announcement of the President of the Republic is part of this historic context. All the changes in compulsory schooling have corresponded to profound changes in the school as well as to social considerations – I reminded you – which are themselves articulated with pedagogical considerations. The financial consequences of this measure, which you mentioned, relate primarily to national education, since it will have to create more posts in nursery schools to accommodate these new pupils. We anticipate it fully, within the framework of the Government's priority at primary school, and the creation of posts in the first level is planned for the next few years. In addition, the national education services are working closely with the Directorate-General for Local Government to implement concretely the reduction of compulsory education to three years. The consequences, both for municipalities and for national education services, are therefore studied. A broad consultation of elected representatives' associations will also be conducted, as part of the bill to be introduced in 2019, which gives us time. This will be an opportunity to take stock of the territorial disparities, whether it be the three-year school enrolment rate or the respective share of public and private education, which can be very different in different regions. It will also be an opportunity to work on demography: we are seeing a steady decline in the number of students in the first degree, confirmed by INSEE for the next few years. This decline will allow both public and private schools to better manage the absorption of new students. As for the legal and financial consequences of the measure, they will be studied in the interest of the pupils in accordance with article 72-2 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u77	Minister, I would like to remind you that the author of the question must be given the opportunity to answer you. Mrs Pires Beaune, briefly my dear colleague, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u78	Minister, I would like to reassure you that I am not trying to minimize the measure at all. It is a laudable goal to lower the age of compulsory schooling in order to enrol the remaining 5 per cent of children. My point was about the financial consequences of this measure for communities, especially since municipalities, as you know, have already had to deal with very important tasks under the previous government and half of them are seeing their staffing continue to decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u79	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u80	I repeat: the objective is commendable, and my question was purely financial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u81	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 292, on the name of Roger Vercel College in Le Mans.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u82	Minister of National Education, I wanted to ask you about the name of Roger Vercel du Mans College in the Sarthe. Teachers, parents of students and the National Federation of Resistant and Patriotic Deportees and Internees have been calling for the name change of this college since 2012. The parents of students expressed overwhelmingly, at nearly 90%, their desire to see this college change its name. Like me, many elected officials have joined in this request. If we know Roger Vercel as the winner of the 1934 Goncourt Prize, we also know that he collaborated as an editorialist in a vichyst newspaper condemned to the Liberation, in which he took a clearly anti-Semitic position in 1940. He then welcomed the next elimination of the Jew from French literary life: "the elimination of the Jew, as a thinker and writer, will react in extraordinary ways to the literature of tomorrow." These public statements are not only reprehensible, they also condemn their author not to be able to embody the values expected of the one to whom the name of a public educational institution is given. The choice of proper name on the frontons of our colleges carries meaning and values. To appoint a college is to pay tribute to a personality, his work and his actions. Even if this change is legally a matter for the departmental council, the Ministry of National Education cannot remain indifferent to this situation. The municipal council of Le Mans, which in 1968 appointed Roger Vercel College, has, three weeks ago, largely repealed this decision. This deliberation, which is probably of little legal value, represents, on the other hand, the expression of an acquired local opinion. The executive of the departmental council opposes this decision for reasons such as "We don't redo history" or "It is up to the teachers to explain to the students that France, at the time of the occupation, was anti-Semitic". To these arguments, it is answered: "History is what we do with it, it is a human and living science" and "Teachers do their work when they talk about occupied France". How can we convey secular and republican values when the students of the college must bear the name of a man who did not share these values? How can we talk about the duty of memory to children if the department does not itself take care of this duty? At this time when the Republic seeks to be exemplary, maintaining the name of a writer whose ideas are detestable is hardly audible. Minister, what is the state's position on this situation, which should lead us not to suggest that the nation, which carries values, does not defend them on a daily basis for the benefit of present and new generations? The recent terrible news must lead us to greater vigilance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u83	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u84	Madam Member, your question is important and we can only be terrified at the reading of the sentences you have mentioned, a fortiori in view of the topicality that you have referred to. It is my role to highlight this evidence. I must also be very careful to ensure that everyone's skills are respected. As you yourself have pointed out, article L. 421-24 of the Education Code provides that the designation or change of name of local public educational institutions is the competence of the territorial community of attachment. The change of name of Roger Vercel College is therefore the sole responsibility of the Sarthe department. For this purpose he must take the opinion of the mayor of the municipality seat of the establishment, as well as of the board of directors of the establishment. These opinions are not binding on the community that is the only jurisdiction to make a final determination. The departments of the Ministry of National Education therefore have no competence in this matter and have no means of interfering in a decision which has been legally taken by the departmental council of the Sarthe. I want to respect the skills of the communities in this area, but I want to assure you once again that I share your indignation about what you have said. More generally, I invite everyone to be cautious when it comes to baptizing or debaptizing colleges. Projecting historical quarrels over all the names of the establishments could open a Pandora's box, which would be counterproductive. On the other hand, local authorities must be able to consider extreme cases. I take this opportunity to give you an overview of the denominations of the institutions in France, denominations whose vocation is to have an ethical and historical resonance with our students. These denominations often pay tribute to the Republic and to the men and women who built it – politicians, writers, scientists. Jules Ferry, the great man of the free and secular school, is the name most frequently chosen by the communities. He was ahead of Jacques Prévert, Jean Moulin, Jean Jaurès, Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Victor Hugo, Louis Pasteur and the spouses Curie. The institutions also pay tribute to the pedagogues who shaped our educational system: Jean Macé, Paul Bert, former minister of public education, Pauline Kergomard, considered to have invented the nursery school, or Jean Zay, mythical figure of national education, murdered by the Militia in 1944. The school name map also reflects the cultural geography of France. These names allow us to carry our values, and I recommended that Colonel Beltrame's be given to institutions. I was pleased to learn that a college in the Alpes-Maritimes will soon bear its name.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u85	Mr President, I would like to respond!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u86	I have to abide by the rules, ma'am, the six minutes are up. The minister answers at length, and that's very good, but it would also be good to give the questioner a few seconds to answer it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u87	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor to raise her question, No. 277, on unfilled teaching posts.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u88	Minister, my question concerns the number of unfilled positions and the problems of recruiting teachers in national education. Many teachers missed the call of the 2017 school year and many schools did not find replacements. This situation has continued in Sarthe for three years. An association of parents of pupils conducted a count and noted the non-appointment of several teachers. On September 4, 2017, three professors were not yet appointed to the institution. Various steps were taken by this association to replace them, using social networks and regularly calling the rectorate. Minister, you are aware of this delicate situation as a petition was sent to you last February. However, to date, in addition to the repeated absence of many other professors, there is still a lack of a professor of technology even though this subject is in the patent program. Assessment for the eighty-eight fourth-grade students: since September, they have had 54 hours of physics-chemistry courses instead of the 189 planned by the programme, or 72 per cent of the courses not taught; and 21 hours of technology courses out of the 126 planned, or 84 per cent of courses not delivered. This lack of teachers has created a serious educational deficit for these students, who will not be able to be caught up by the end of the year and thus create significant inequalities between students. Unfortunately, as you know, this college is just one of many. At the time of the start of 2018, it is urgent to act. Equal opportunities for school success is a key priority, and I know, Minister, that this is of great importance to you. So what measures do you intend to implement to guarantee the right to education for all? What means could be put in place to address these recruitment problems? Would temporary or even permanent procedures such as the recruitment of teachers in other academies, on the basis of volunteerism, or the improvement of the conditions for the training and admission of teachers be possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u89	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u90	Madam Member, the question of the replacement of teachers who are absent, whether from the colleague, from primary school or from high school, is obviously one of the most important for the school system. The non-replacement of these teachers is one of the most negative aspects experienced by families. It is not just a question of means: at the beginning of last year, in fact, we broke records in terms of means of replacement, both in the first degree and in the second degree. It is also a matter of organization, which poses even greater problems in certain areas where remoteness makes things difficult – as has been seen in one of the previous questions. In short, it is not so much a question of budget or means as an issue of organisation, and that is why I am currently reflecting on the evolution of our alternative methods. Before dealing with the particular case that you mentioned, I must tell you that improving the replacement of absent teachers will therefore be one of the priorities of the time ahead, with three imperatives: better information, strengthening the existing potential and improving the management of replacement. The first measures taken in this regard resulted in the publication of the decree of 9 May 2017 on the exercise of the functions of replacement teachers of the first degree and the circular of 15 March 2017 on the improvement of the replacement device. But we need to go further. The circular I have just quoted reactivates the protocols provided for in the decree of 26 August 2005 which define, in each second degree establishment, the organization of the replacement. In my view, the internalization of replacement within each institution is a good method. These provisions allow, within the framework of a protocol defined in each school, to mobilise teachers for short-term replacement, in accordance with their qualifications, up to an additional five hours per week and 60 hours per school year. The head of the school must seek the agreement of the teachers to participate in the scheme as a matter of priority, even if he or she has the possibility of using the designation in the absence of voluntary teachers. In addition to the replacements carried out by the teachers of the school, there is also the replacement zone (TZR), which gives priority to long-term replacements but can also be mobilised for short-term replacements. For example, more than 20,000 hours were provided by TZRs for short-term replacement. The efforts of the academies to overcome the difficulties of replacement are tangible. On 1 September 2017, 702 contract workers, by means of instruction, were already employed in the lycées and colleges of the Nantes Academy. Throughout September, 169 additional full-time equivalents were recruited. The Court of Auditors recognises the efforts made by the Ministry of National Education to combat the disaffection of the teaching profession. It is a comprehensive teacher recruitment strategy that will provide a structural response to the problem you have raised. This is part of the future reforms: we will indeed undertake a reform of teacher training which will include a reform of the pre-recruitment system and will provide the necessary pools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u91	We must conclude, Minister, if you want Mrs Fontenel-Person to be able to answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u92	With regard to the department of the Sarthe and more particularly the Paul-Chevallier College of the Grand Lucé, to which you referred, I still want to convey to you good news, which attests to the attention we pay to this establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u93	Thank you, Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u94	On such a serious issue, it is necessary for our colleague to respond to the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u95	A professor of physics and chemistry was recruited at the beginning of the winter holidays. As for the professor of technology, he's just been recruited last Friday. Personalised support will be possible for students who have suffered from the absences you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u96	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor for a very brief statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u97	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, I have just learned that the replacement has been done since Monday.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u98	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor to put her question, No 291, on the Crous de Normandie.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u99	Minister of National Education, in the framework of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic – NOTRE law – and the creation of a single Normandy, a balance had been struck between Lower Normandy and Upper Normandy on the division of powers and the seat of public institutions. For example, public education and research institutions would have their headquarters in Caen, while regional prefecture and other services would be located in Rouen. With the creation of the CROUS – the regional centre for academic and academic works – in Normandy, this state commitment seemed to have been respected since the Minister of Higher Education announced last October that the headquarters of this new institution would be located in Caen, as planned. This declaration was called into question, a month later, by the Prime Minister himself, unilaterally deciding that the CROUS de Normandie would be located in Rouen, which amazes many elected officials and the staff of the two current CROUS. That is why almost all the parliamentarians of Calvados, the mayor of Caen and the president of the University of Caen-Normandie have twice called upon the Prime Minister. In response to our letters, the latter told us that it was in the name of the balance between the territories that he had made this choice. However, we did not have any financial elements on this file. However, the current premises of the CROUS de Rouen, which are poorly adapted, are located, at the contrario of the CROUS de Caen, outside the university campuses. This would certainly require the construction of a new seat in Rouen. Therefore, in the interests of transparency, can the Government undertake to transmit to us, before any publication in the Official Journal of the implementation of the CROUS of Normandy, a detailed comparative financial study between the sites of Caen and Rouen? At a time when efforts are being made by the French, it would be inconceivable that the solution chosen would be the most expensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u100	The Minister for National Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u101	Madam Member, you have already asked my colleague Frédérique Vidal about this. Today, she asks me to give you this answer, which I am happy to do. As you know, the Normandy region has asked to be the first region to experiment with a new organization of national education and higher education services. This is good news for this region, as we are putting it at the forefront of a number of innovations in national education and higher education. In particular, the two academies are now driven only by one rector, which has led to a rebalancing of services: the rectorate is installed in one city and the CROUS in another. The initial decision had been made at the time when the region had a regional rectorate and two academic rectorates, but I can reassure you for the future: a balance was found by installing the rectorate in Caen and the CROUS in Rouen. It is important to stress that the rectorate, the fundamental institution of national education, will remain in Caen, which will guarantee respect for the balances which you have recalled the necessity. The CROUS de Normandie will be born on January 1, 2019. Thanks to the movement I have just described, this CROUS should be the third or fourth CROUS in France in terms of numbers and housing stock. Of course, its headquarters will be in Rouen, but it will be organised in three poles, Caen, Rouen and Le Havre, each one piloting both the services to students within its site and cross-cutting functions across the region. This organisation will make it possible to have a more important CROUS, with more investment capacity, while creating directions of sites in university cities, for a better symbiosis with higher education institutions spread throughout the territory of the Normandy region. We have the chance to drive this building site to build, not to reduce. Indeed, the allocation of the future CROUS of Normandy for 2019 should be at least equal to the sum of the endowments of the two current CROUS of Caen and Rouen. The same applies to the employment ceiling. It is first and foremost this news that must be retained by the actors, because it is good news for Normandy, Caen and Rouen. Thanks to the excellent work of the Prefigurative Director General, no geographical movement of staff is planned or required: the balanced organization chart between the three sites allowed each one to position themselves, after an exemplary individual and collective consultation, on a position corresponding to his/her skills and aspirations. Those who wanted to move were able to do so, those who preferred to stay in the same place were granted their request. In the long term, the question of the building of the headquarters in Rouen will arise. Forward-looking work is engaged with communities and institutions, the idea being to naturally favour a campus, in the transparency that you have requested and that is obviously quite natural.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u102	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u103	Minister, you cannot call this news "good" because it is contrary to all the commitments made by the state until October last. It also has nothing to do with the fact that we are a pilot academy with a single rector. My question was only about the financial cost of the operation. If the seat of the CROUS is maintained in Caen, as planned, it will cost nothing. If the new institution's headquarters are relocated to Rouen, a new building will have to be built at a cost that is likely to reach several million euros. I regret that you have not informed me on this issue and that you have not even undertaken, on behalf of the Government, to provide us with a comparative study of the financial costs of these two options. All the parliamentarians of Calvados, the mayor of Caen and the president of the University of Caen-Normandie are concerned about this issue. The least you can do is answer the questions asked! Again, we are talking about the commitment of public funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u104	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u105	Your comment that the future CROUS budget will be the sum of the current two CROUS allocations is not enough to satisfy or comfort us. Again, it is a matter of building ex nihilo a new CROUS in Rouen when we have everything we need in Caen and the state has made a commitment to this city.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u106	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor to raise her question, No 268, on the representativeness of the new communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u107	Minister to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, I would like to ask you about the development and establishment of new municipalities throughout the Republic. In fact, 517 new communes were created in two years, bringing together nearly 1800 communes and 1.8 million inhabitants. Elected from Maine-et-Loire, where the development of the new communes has been particularly important, I wonder about the possibility of taking a first stock of the establishment of these new local authorities or of basing itself on the one carried out by the Association of Mayors of France in order to reflect on new proposals aimed at ensuring the proper representation of the delegated communes in the municipal councils of the new communes, all without ignoring the current framework resulting from the law of 16 March 2015 on the improvement of the regime of the new commune. The results of these groupings appear to be generally positive. There has been a general trend of enthusiasm around the new commune, on the part of both the population and the voluntary sector, as well as of the staff and elected representatives. The difficulties encountered are mainly due to the problems of addressing and the complexity of certain administrative procedures in the transitional phase. Concerns remain about the representation of elected representatives and the organisation of the commune after 2020. The elected representatives of these new municipalities interviewed by the Association des mayores de France and those whom I had the opportunity to meet in my constituency plead for an increase in the number of elected representatives, for the establishment of a minimum number of elected representatives per historic commune within the municipal council of the new municipality, or for an adaptation of the voting method by integrating a proportion of the proportion or by providing representative lists with reserved places. I would like to know the Government's position on the organization of these communities before approaching the upcoming municipal elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u108	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u109	Madam Member, you are asking me about the new communes. Indeed, as you have recalled, since 2015 – knowing that the decision to create the new communes date from the 2010 reform of the territorial authorities, designed by the Pélissard law – 1856 communes have merged to form 554 new communes, bringing together nearly 1.9 million inhabitants. Many of these communes, by a kind of cultural tradition, are located in the northwest quarter of the metropolitan territory, particularly in the department of Maine-et-Loire, of which you are elected, Madam Member, and which is particularly active in this field. Simply put, the Government supports the creation of new communes. The continuation of the specific incentive financial regime for new municipalities created by 1 January 2019, voted in the 2018 Finance Act, is expected to result in the creation of additional new municipalities in the coming months. You know that the special feature of this new system of communes lies in the delegated communes: the old communes automatically become delegated communes, unless the municipal councils decide otherwise before the new communes are created. There are many provisions governing the number of deputy mayors and deputy mayors. It should be recalled, however, that the functions of deputy mayor of the new municipality are not accounted for under the 30% ceiling, which is a facility for the delegate mayors. There are also many opportunities to create municipal conferences in the delegated municipalities. Behind your question, I understand that you are also asking me about the number of municipal councillors. Today, when a new municipality is created, the two municipal councils can sit together, regardless of the number of councillors combined – which may be important when it comes to large municipalities, as is the case with the new municipality created in Annecy. In a second stage, the new municipalities will benefit from the advantage of the upper layer: if the new municipality has for example 3500 inhabitants, it will benefit from the upper layer and will therefore have a larger number of municipal councillors, knowing that, of course, the elections of 2020 will focus on a single unit – the new municipality – and that the lists will have to be drawn up for it. It will be up to each candidate list to include representatives from all delegated communes, as is the case in a "normal" commune, where efforts are being made to establish lists of candidates from all neighbourhoods. Step three: The number of counsellors will be reduced to the number corresponding to the population. I know that some people are asking to amend the law to go back to the representation of delegated communes in the new communes. This is very complicated, because the new communes are sometimes made up of many communes. To put it very clearly, the maps were known before the constitution of the new communes. In short, the new communes are new communes in their own right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u110	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor to raise her question, No. 276 on residential parking rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u111	Madam Minister, first of all, I want to involve my colleagues Bergé, Cesarini, Fugit, Lazaar, Lebec, Marsaud, Perea, Perrot, Petit, Raphan, Taquet and Vanceunebrock-Mialon, who are also struck by a municipal parking policy in their territories, which must alert us all and mobilize us. My question concerns the very worrying development of residential parking rates in several municipalities in our country, first and foremost the city of Montrouge, located in my constituency of Hauts-de-Seine. The law on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises, known as the MAPTAM law, has organised the decriminalisation and decentralization of paid parking. As of January 1, 2018, communities can set parking and post-parking rates freely and delegate the management of this service to a third party. However, we note in several cities, Montrouge in the lead, that this delegation of public service has been accompanied by a very worrying increase in residential parking rates, which go so far as to double compared to the old rates, often without relevant justification or citizen consultation. Did the decriminalisation of fines, as provided for by the MAPTAM law, involve imposing such an increase in tariffs on our fellow citizens, up to several hundred euros per month? Is it acceptable for our citizens, traders and artisans to have to pay some more than 30 euros for just a few hours of parking? The parking choices of these communities are very serious in terms of purchasing power of course, jobs and business life, as well as mobility. I am already seeing a postponement of parking in the neighbouring cities in my constituency. I also see people, up until now public transport users, taking back their cars every day to escape this perceived unfair pricing, with very worrying effects in terms of traffic congestion and pollution, even as we are working collectively for cleaner mobility. These political and tariff choices, which are certainly municipal, cannot leave national representation indifferent to many of our fellow citizens, such as a new tax and a commodification of public space. I would therefore like to know, Madam Minister, what the Government's position is on what is similar to a deviation of the MAPTAM Act and what action it intends to take to remedy such situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u112	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u113	I would like to remind you, Madam Member – as well as all the colleagues you have associated with your question! – that the reform of paid parking is part of the decentralisation and has been put in place at the request of local and regional authorities under the previous government. I was a senator myself, and I remember very well the desire expressed by the elected officials to reform the parking lot. Thus, in accordance with the principle of the free administration of territorial authorities, it is now up to each municipality or intercommunality which has chosen to apply this reform to define the modalities of its implementation within the framework laid down by law. It is really the communal or intercommunal freedom that applies. In this case, in accordance with Article L. 2333-87 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, the community must draw up by deliberation, on the one hand, the tariff schedule for the immediate payment of the parking fee, and, on the other hand, the amount of the post-parking fee, in the event of absence or insufficiency of payment. Each community can adjust this scale and, in particular, provide for a specific fee for certain categories of users, including residents of the municipality. In view of the evidence gathered by reform actors, including elected associations, the majority of the communities did not increase the rate of the first hours of parking compared to the grids they applied in 2017 for the same duration of parking. However, to the extent that the amount of the post-parking package corresponds to the maximum planned parking time, these same communities have often decided to extend the time range of the authorized parking and have changed their rate schedule accordingly, which may have generated local feedback from users. It is still too early to learn from a reform that came into effect three and a half months ago and while more than half of the approximately 530 communities that have already decided to implement it were not operational at the beginning of April, due to the lack of completion of their technical projects – such as the updating of timers. Nevertheless, Madam Member, after listening to you and considering the first elements that they have made public, I know that some cities have seen since the beginning of the year a decrease in the number of suction cars, a greater ease for motorists to find a place, a very significant increase in the immediate payment to the horoderator, an increase in the number of requests for parking cards for residents and professionals and car park subscriptions, and finally a relatively small national challenge. The Government is paying attention to the situation that you have mentioned and we will look closely at the elements related to the situation in Montrouge.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u114	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u115	Thank you, minister, for that clarification. Indeed, I understand that the principle of community self-government applies and that each community can adjust this scale and provide for specific fees. I also hear, and welcome, that the majority of communities have not increased these rates. However, some cities show very worrying increases, creating equally worrying inequalities between territories and neighbouring cities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u116	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u117	While the number of suction cars is decreasing, the fact that some of our fellow citizens are taking their vehicles back to travel seems to me to run counter to mobility policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u118	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor to put his question, No. 282, on the police force in the Alpes-Maritimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u119	Madam Minister, my question concerns the recurring problem of the shortage of national police personnel in the Alpes-Maritimes department, and particularly within the police services of the municipalities of Antibes Juan-les-Pins and Vallauris-Golfe-Juan. We all agree, on these benches, that the fight against all forms of crime and crime must find a concrete translation on the ground and materialize with appropriate staffing: it is the first sovereign mission of the State. In my constituency, the municipalities of Antibes and Vallauris have for many years been confronted with a chronic understaffing problem in relation to the size of their population pool. This, of course, affects the conditions under which police officers perform their duties. In concrete terms, the figures provided by your Ministry indicate the arrival, between the end of September and the end of December 2017, of a police officer from the supervisory and enforcement corps and five security assistants at the Antibes police station. In addition, there has been a steady decrease in the number of police stations in Antibes Juan-les Pins during the tourist season for several years. As for the CRS security forces, they no longer offend only on an ad hoc basis, according to events, and no longer, as was the case in the past, permanently in the summer on Juan-les-Pins. Minister, the capacity choices made seem to me to be very inadequate in view of the high tourism potential of these territories, which have their population doubled during the summer. I want to point out that this situation leads these communes to deploy additional municipal police forces in the middle of the season to remedy this deficiency. I would therefore like you to indicate to me, in a budgetary context made even more constrained by the new financial contract, the means that you intend to use, particularly during the tourist period, to address this understaffing problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u120	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior. Think of leaving Mr. Pauget a little margin if he wants to answer you, Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u121	As you know, the Alpes-Maritimes are part of the departments selected as part of the daily security police policy – PSQ – for the implementation of "reconquer republican districts" where specific resources and materials will be concentrated. As early as January 2019, this will be the case in Nice, in the districts of L'Ariane and Les Moulins. I know, and you have recalled, that in terms of tourism, your department is faced with major challenges, such as, more broadly, those of the French Riviera and the Var coast. He is also confronted with significant illegal immigration, as well as with the phenomenon of Islamist radicalisation, I would say. That is why the police force in the department, which to date – as at 31 March 2018 – is 2818 officers, for all police services, will increase very significantly in the coming months: by the end of September, they must indeed rise to 2870. For your constituency, which covers the cities of Antibes and Vallauris, the numbers have increased in recent years, from 191 at the end of 2015 to 196 to date, including 155 officers and peacekeepers, a figure consistent with the target population. At this stage of the forecast, with five departures and one expected arrival, this workforce is expected to decrease very slightly, reaching 192 officers at the end of September 2018. At the operational level, however, it is consistent with the progress made in recent years and the need to strengthen other police stations in the region. Moreover, as you know, the workforce is not frozen: departmental reinforcements are mobilized whenever necessary, including those of the departmental intervention company and departmental security, and even mobile forces. I would also point out that this police district benefits from the ad hoc reinforcement of the civilian reserve, which plays a very important role in increasing the operational capacity of the police station. Finally, safety during the summer season is of course an absolutely important issue in terms of attractiveness. As last summer, the Alpes-Maritimes will benefit from CRS in 2018, including rescue swimmers, three in Vallauris and two in Villefranche. In addition, two Republican security companies will be deployed in the Alpes-Maritimes as seasonal reinforcements, which is, and is considerable, one more company than last year. I would point out that the Var will benefit from a reinforcement of the same magnitude. Your security concerns are entirely legitimate, Mr. Member; We are here to meet the needs of all sectors of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u122	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u123	I have a proposal to make: since it is clear that coastal municipalities, particularly in tourist areas, are obliged to make significant efforts in the summer in terms of municipal police, could we not envisage a relaxation of the financial pact on this issue of security for the municipalities making these efforts? If I do not expect an answer now, I am making this proposal, which deserves to be studied.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u124	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to raise her question, No. 287, on sheep theft.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u125	My question, which is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, relates to the theft of sheep, particularly in the Loire-Atlantique, where the problems related to wolves are not relevant since they do not threaten our sheepfolds. This does not prevent sheep farmers in my department from seeing their sheep disappear and finding sheep carcasses in the fields. Indeed, since 2014, many breeders in Loire-Atlantique have been affected by an upsurge in sheep thefts, which exacerbate the difficulties of this already pending industry; thefts which have led some of them to throw the sponge and to reconvert; thefts that divert young farmers from this beautiful way of farming. These flights, with multiple consequences, penalize farmers in many ways. They can no longer be sure, since the insurances refuse to cover them without setting up exorbitant surveillance systems. As a result of this abandonment, each flight represents a dry loss for the breeders. These flights deplete sheep breeds, since stolen sheep are often the result of genetic selections over years or even decades. The state failed to protect its breeders. These flights take place with impunity, day and night. A wolf plan has been put in place to help, protect and compensate four-legged wolf breeders. Madam Minister, what does the Government intend to do to protect our farmers from the damage caused by the two-legged wolves in the Loire-Atlantique, which are no less serious? What actions are being taken to ensure that our campaigns are no longer areas of lawlessness, that our sheepfolds are no longer self-service areas, where we can use ourselves with impunity? In 2017, more than 200 sheep were officially stolen in my department, not counting sheep stolen from private individuals or those not declared stolen for fear of reprisals. Yes, Madam Minister, some farmers in the Loire-Atlantique are afraid to declare themselves victims and even to appear in an association that has just been set up to regroup and defend itself. A short time ago, the Minister of the Interior, together with your colleague Jean-Michel Blanquer, proclaimed: "Long live republican authority! My department is not the Far West, and I would like to know what the authority you represent intends to do so that sheep farmers can work calmly and fearlessly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u126	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u127	Member of the European Parliament, geographically isolated in a very large rural area, farms and farm farms may be vulnerable to mobile and organised misappropriation – this elegant term depicts the reality of what is happening in our territory and that you have described. In the framework of the ministerial directives of 11 March 2014, the National Gendarmerie implemented seventy-nine departmental plans dedicated to the safety of farms. Based on a local observation shared with the various representatives of the agricultural world, each plan contains a criminal analysis highlighting the phenomena of delinquency in the department, as well as the axes of effort to produce. It provides for various preventive and repressive measures. First of all, this plan allows for increased exchanges between the security forces and the agricultural world. The implementation of the departmental plans has been reflected in twenty-four groups by the signing of partnership agreements with actors in the agricultural world such as the chambers of agriculture, the FNSEA – National Federation of Agricultural Operators' Unions – etc. In order to encourage local initiatives and to strengthen information sharing, the Directorate-General of the National Gendarmerie and the FNSEA have signed a national convention; At the same time, sixty conventions establishing an alert system for farmers by SMS or e-mail were signed between the gendarmerie groups and the chambers of agriculture. This SMS system is present in Loire-Atlantique, under the name AGRI 44, since December 2014 and concerns 121 actors. It can usefully relay messages of prevention in the face of abuses committed against sheep farmers in order to strengthen vigilance. In addition, the gendarmes can also provide support for the safety of farms and farms. The departmental plans include measures to inform farmers about threats and protection measures, including the organization of public meetings led by territorial correspondents for crime prevention, who are dependent on the gendarmerie. Finally, safety referents and correspondents also intervene for the benefit of the agricultural world by carrying out written diagnostics or oral safety consultations. They provide operators with targeted and site-specific human, organisational and technical recommendations to enhance passive safety and reduce the risk of malice on farms. For example, in 2017, 191 written diagnostics and oral security consultations were carried out for the most vulnerable farms, and seventy-five for the benefit of agricultural dealers. As you have understood, this commitment to the agricultural world remains strong, even though our forces are extremely solicited by other subjects, as you know; And, of course, justice then does its job.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u128	Mr Paul Christophe, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 294, concerning the care of unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u129	With the continuous increase in the arrival and need for care of unaccompanied minors, known as MNAs, the departments are experiencing a saturation of the protective devices. The reception facilities necessary for child welfare missions no longer allow for the reception of these young people in sufficient conditions of dignity and security. Unaccompanied minors have very different needs than other children in the care of children. There is a common lack of mastery of the French language, health problems and trauma associated with events in the country of origin or during the migration journey. This requires specific support. The departments, in the vast majority, reiterate their commitment to the provision of educational support to MNAs throughout their care in the context of child protection. However, the migration issue is the responsibility of the State and therefore involves its participation in the care of social assistance for children. On the occasion of the Congress of the Assembly of French Departments, the Prime Minister confirmed his commitment to take over the period of evaluation and protection of the MNA, but did not indicate the operational modalities of implementation. He also referred to a possible adaptation of legislative arrangements. I would therefore like to know how the Government wishes to change the legislative framework and financial support of the departments in the light of its jurisdiction over migration.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u130	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u131	Mr. Deputy, the Government pays particular attention to the issue of unaccompanied minors. Most of the time, as you yourself have reminded us, these particularly vulnerable young people have had traumatic life experiences and must be protected, as required by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. A bipartite mission, composed of the Assembly of the Departments of France, the Inspectorate General of Social Affairs – it is from this ministry that unaccompanied minors depend –, the Inspectorate General of Administration and the Inspectorate General of Justice, issued a substantiated report on 15 February 2018. The report does indeed show an increase in the number of persons, mainly boys, who have applied for recognition as minors since the summer of 2017 and in the number of unaccompanied minors taken care of by the social assistance for children. The Mission also points to a decrease in the age of these minors. Many departments are currently facing housing difficulties prior to the assessment of a minority but also to support people once they have reached the age of 18. The mission's findings are shared between the State and the departments. The solutions to deal with this issue of reception and protection of people are of several kinds. There is a need to fight energetically and decisively, within a European framework, against the channels of smugglers who instrumentalize children and subject them to inhuman and degrading treatment. It is then necessary to harmonize the procedures for assessing the minority, which are now too disparate in the territory, including with regard to the timing of assessment. The State is committed to supporting departments in this phase. There is also a need to ensure that the health aspects of the evaluation are taken more into account. There is a need to increase housing capacity prior to minority assessment and to better support departments in the financing of such accommodation and associated social support. There is also a difficulty: the concentration of the arrival of minors in a few departments – border departments and those with large agglomerations. The question of the geographical distribution of persons prior to the assessment phase and prior to the care of social assistance for departmental children is therefore raised in order to better accommodate these unaccompanied minors. The scenarios proposed by the mission are being studied and are being exchanged between the Government and the departments. Whatever the scenario, the State will play its full part in the conduct of this public policy for the protection of minors, in conjunction with the departments. I cannot yet communicate to you the conclusions of the discussions because they have not yet been delivered, but know that the Government, together with the Assembly of the French Departments, is working with a great deal of political will.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u132	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u133	Minister, I know how much attention you pay to this important issue for our territory. I would like to add that the proposed allocation key is questionable in light of the criteria that had been adopted, in particular the presence of young people under the age of 19 in the territory. The embolisation of child-care services penalizes departments in carrying out their child welfare missions; This is a real problem. These young people also receive a little different support from what is usually offered in the context of social assistance for children; The various comments we have just discussed show that we agree on this point. We therefore need real support and partnership between the State and the departments on this issue; That's what's coming, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u134	Mr Erwan Balanant, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 289, on the "City-City Action" plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u135	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the city centre plan. This plan, with €5 billion over five years, has designated the cities that would be allocated the funds needed to revitalize their centres. This action, which you described as "an expression of the new cohesion policy of the territories, at the service of their inhabitants", confirms the Government's commitment to the development of territories housing 35 per cent of the French population. If we can only welcome your initiative, I wonder about the quality of the criteria chosen since only municipalities with a "regional reach" or those with a "centrality for their living pool" are eligible for funding and seem to have been selected. In Finistère, Morlaix and Quimper are among the 222 happy national elected and I congratulate them. The Finistère has important peculiarities: department at the end of the world, or at the beginning of the world, depending on the place in which it is located, it has first of all a dynamic agricultural and agri-food specificity, but now weakened; a peninsular character that calls for an effort of the future, on which the Government has committed itself after the abandonment of the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport project; and above all a strong network of small and medium-sized cities, which structure the territory – all characteristics that lead me to ask you about the situation of these small cities, which feel that they do not belong to any category eligible for State schemes: rurality contracts or, in this case, Action cœur de ville plan. I thus take the example of two cities that are dear to me, Concarneau and Quimperlé, which have an eminently central character in the economic development of the department, between dynamic maritime territory, territory of innovation, territory of balance, sustainable territory; sources of attractiveness that need to be preserved and fed. If the medium-sized cities are the identity of our country and the drivers of development that have long been neglected, is it planned, during the five years covered by the Action coeur de ville plan, to review or complete the list of the cities that award the credits? What actions do you intend to take for these small and medium-sized cities that feel excluded from the existing arrangements and whose communal and intercommunal elected representatives are fighting every day for their revitalization? What could be the mechanisms and the financial means to support these cities in their beneficial efforts?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u136	The Minister has the floor to the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u137	Mr President, I am answering your question on behalf of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion. Small town, medium town, it does not cover exactly the same thing according to the departments. When you compare one region like Brittany and another in central France, like Limousin, you know that you don't have the same configuration. The agglomeration of Limoges accounts for 80% of the population of Haute-Vienne. Thank you for your support of the Action Coeur de Ville plan and I can tell you that the Breton cities that have been chosen are very satisfied with it. France is fortunate to be able to rely on a solid network of medium-sized cities, which comprise about a quarter of the national population and about a quarter of employment as well. They are therefore a real tool for reinvigorating our country and, through their distribution throughout the national territory, a real lever of social and territorial cohesion. The ambition of the Action Coeur de Ville plan, which combines the State, three main financiers who are the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the ANAH – Agence nationale de l'habitat – and Action logement, is to reinvigorate the economic attractiveness of the hearts of these medium-sized cities. This plan follows the lines of a French tradition vis-à-vis the network of medium-sized cities which have a decisive role in the balance and cohesion of the territory, but which had not been the subject of a specific programme since 1974. Action Coeur de Ville mobilises €5 billion over five years for this purpose. The 222 selected cities will be supported financially and in engineering at the local level to facilitate the projects defined by the elected representatives. In addition, I agree with your analysis: cities smaller than medium-sized cities perform important centrality functions, especially when they are in sparsely populated areas. However, the Action Coeur de Ville plan does not have a vocation as a universal urban system: it constitutes for the medium-sized cities the pillar of an overall policy, complementary to other actions of the State to reinforce all the centralities that make up our country. Thus, the programme for the revitalization of the city centres enables the development of revitalisation strategies for 54 small cities. Similarly, the 456 rural contracts covering a growing part of French territory already include actions in favour of the city centre. The Minister for Territorial Cohesion will ensure that all these policies are harmonized.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u138	Mr Christophe Lejeune, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 270, concerning the draft prison in Lure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u139	Madam Minister of Justice, keepers of the seals, during his speech before the Court of Cassation, the President of the Republic asked for "a comprehensive prison plan", particularly concerning the real estate of prisons. The construction of a new prison in Lure, sub-prefecture of the Haute-Saône, had been announced by the guard of the Christiane Taubira seals, and confirmed in September 2015 by the President of the Republic François Hollande. The feasibility dossier is well advanced and symbolizes the continuity of the State's words. The old prison is almost demolished. Its old age no longer allowed prison staff and detainees to stay in satisfactory conditions of security. This real estate project brings together all the elected representatives, institutions and inhabitants of the territory. This prison, originally planned for 150 prisoners, could accommodate more prisoners. The proposal to create a detention centre of 150 additional places was also made, since this type of establishment does not exist in Franche-Comté. The treatment of psychiatry, a recurring issue in the prison environment, could be based on a very important specialized departmental hospital structure, the hospital association Burgundy-Franche-Comté-Saint-Rémy-Clairefontaine. Similarly, to prepare for the reintegration of prisoners, the industrial fabric and the large forest mass, in constant search of labour, can offer them a professional activity of close proximity sufficient to maintain the social link. It is therefore a global project that is being built around this new prison. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the State services that have been working for almost three years to complete this issue. Madam Minister, will the project of a new prison in Lure be included in your prison plan?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u140	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u141	Mr President, for several months now, land research has been under way with a view to building new prisons, in particular in order to reduce the very large overcrowding in prisons, which degrades the care of detained persons and the working conditions of staff. As the President of the Republic recently pointed out, 7000 additional places will thus be created by the end of the quinquennium. In this context, feasibility studies have been carried out or are under way wherever land has been proposed, and investigations are continuing where they have not yet been completed. Prioritization of the establishment of new institutions will depend on the need to meet the most important prison needs, budgetary resources and the time taken to complete the operations. It will also have to take into account the new prison policy announced by the President of the Republic in Agen on 6 March. This prioritization will also be linked to the need to have facilities adapted to the different types of inmates we have to accommodate in these facilities, and I have noted, honourable Member, that you are insisting on the psychiatric problems of a number of inmates. As you know, real estate programming will be finalized as part of the Justice Programming Bill being finalized. You will understand, therefore, that I cannot rule on a particular operation today, but I will have to come before you to propose the options that we would like to take very soon, at the time of the bill's introduction.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u142	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to raise her question, No. 264, on the mental health of prisoners.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u143	Madam Minister of Justice, twenty-four years after the reform of health in prison, it appears that many, sometimes very serious, dysfunctions persist or have intensified. In addition, the incarcerated population continues to grow. While the recent movement of prison surveillance personnel has made their special situation known to the general public, they are not the only ones alerting them to the serious deterioration of prison conditions, particularly on the issue of health. I am not just talking about the impossible hygiene with the weekly shower, the invasions of pests – rats, fleas, lice, bugs – or the outdated construction, which led to several complaints being filed against France for degrading treatment until the European Court of Human Rights. I'm talking about physiological health, where the supervisor and painkillers replace specialized personnel under the number of patients and pathologies, leading emergency medicine under unbearable conditions of exercise. I'm talking about mental health, almost absent from the supervisory training programs, judge: six hours on the entire curriculum! Agents are poor when they are at the forefront of access to dementia, which is so insecure and causes so many attacks between inmates and against staff. The figures are clear: 20 per cent of prisoners suffer from psychotic disorders, and eight out of ten men in detention have at least one psychiatric disorder. Finally, I am talking to you about the lack of protocol in the fight against so-called "radicalization" in prison, as you are about to open 1500 "watertight" places for these prisoners, while the educators-probation officers working in the radicalisation assessment districts have to date no psychological or clinical training and too often intervene without consultation with the medical teams. Today, I would like to express the voice of all those personnel who carry out an indispensable public service mission, among the most difficult and less rewarding. I also want to reaffirm the dignity to which every citizen has the right within our Republic, including when they are in detention. My question will therefore be simple: what are you going to do in practice, Madam Minister, to put an end to the lack of health in our prisons and to answer this urgent question of health in our prisons?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u144	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u145	Madam Member, you are raising an issue which I attach the greatest importance to. Since the Act of 18 January 1994, health care for prisoners has been provided by the public hospital service. There are real needs in this area, and I see them regularly when I go to prisons. The population in prison has significant health needs related to its socio-demographic characteristics and the high prevalence of psychiatric diseases and addictions. Initiatives have been taken by the Ministry of Justice to support the collection of data on entry into detention through regional health observatories. The Ministry of Justice is heavily invested in the National Health Strategy 2018-2022 to address the needs of inmates. Several measures have been adopted for the benefit of persons in the hands of justice. A prevalence survey of the various mental disorders should be carried out in the general population with a detention component in order to assess, inter alia, the number of persons with mental health problems upon entry into detention, to generalize the collection of such data at the regional level through the regional health observatories. Together with my colleague Agnès Buzyn we will also deploy additional arrangements for the care of prisoners with psychological fragility. We also wish to strengthen the continuity of the out-of-country care through three measures: strengthening the link with the psychiatry sectors and city medicine, in particular in connection with the medical-psychological centres; the development of the use of medical facilities, which are now under-used. The Directorate of Prisons has led the development of a methodological guide for professionals in the area of sentencing and medical release, prepared with the Directorate of Criminal Affairs and Pardons and the Directorate of Youth Judicial Protection, as well as the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. Finally, we want to develop access to housing and housing for people with mental illness, through better coordination with housing stakeholders, integrated reception and guidance services, the departmental directorates of social cohesion, and associative partners, which support us in the development of this system. Your Committee on Laws has examined this issue and I particularly thank Mr Stéphane Mazars for the quality of the work that has been carried out in this context. I am sure that we will have a debate on this when we look at the justice programming bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u146	Mr François Ruffin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 265, concerning the Amiens Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u147	Madam Minister, an author from my corner, Francis Demarcy, writes: "Between the North that closes its factories and Paris that closes its heart, there is the Picardy that closes its mouth. Picardie also closed its factories – Goodyear, Whirlpool, Honeywell, Magneti Marelli, Flodor – but this industrial shock added a symbolic shock. With the fusion of the regions, Picardie's name disappeared, scratched with a feather trait from Paris, with contempt. No doubt more concrete, less sentimental, the administrative shock: the regional council moved from Amiens to Lille; As a result, many government departments left, including the regional health agency, and behind, the regional headquarters of large companies such as the Savings Bank, as well as important associations such as the Football League. All this has a double consequence: the loss of jobs and the remoteness of services. Hence my question, Madam Minister: Do you intend to continue in this straight line and deepen an impression of abandonment by abolishing or reducing the Amiens Court of Appeal? You wanted to reassure, saying, "There will always be a call to Amiens." But to tell you the truth, it was rather worrying: what did the party "of the appeal" mean instead of "a court of appeal"? You said "call" as they say "bread", so it seemed that there would be only one piece left. Since, on the occasion of your visit to the area, lawyers and magistrates insisted, you confirmed, a little annoyed: "We will not close any place of justice. And at the same time, you added that Amiens should agree with Douai, in the North, to distribute specialized litigation. Let us understand, Madam Minister, that we have been overly distrusted: we have been overwhelmed by over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming, over-whelming. Your formulas resemble those of a director of La Poste who comes to reassure the mayor of the town: "You will always have, from the post office" – and we find ourselves with a postal relay at the butcher... Could you, then, simply and without fioriture, state this sentence that would remove any doubt, any ambiguity: "The Court of Appeal of Amiens will be maintained with the same perimeter and volume of litigation"?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u148	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u149	Mr Ruffin, your wishes are orders: the Amiens Court of Appeal will be maintained with its jurisdiction, its perimeter – and its judges, of course. More seriously, Member of Parliament, in accordance with the commitments made by the Government and which I have repeatedly reiterated, I repeat to you today: the draft law on programming for justice that I will have the pleasure of presenting to you will not include the closure of any place of justice or court, whether it be the courts of appeal, the courts of appeal or the courts of major jurisdiction. All appeal courts will therefore be maintained, and that of Amiens in particular. For the courts of appeal, the bill will propose the conduct of an experiment, located in two administrative regions that include several appeal courts. I wanted this experiment because I do not want to impose decisions from Paris against the feeling of the ground, both for the appeal and for the rest. The proposed experiment will be to give heads of courts the functions of facilitation and coordination over a range of appeal courts within a region, in order to improve the service rendered to litigants and to ensure the coherence of the work of the public service of justice, while respecting judicial independence. It will make it possible to specialise, in certain civil matters, according to local specificities, courts of appeal within a region, for a more homogeneous and predictable case law. No choice has yet been made as to which courts of appeal could experiment with these new measures, but even in this context no court of appeal will be abolished. With regard to the particular case of Amiens on which you are questioning me, I will go much further by reaffirming that not only will the Court of Appeal be upheld, but also that its jurisdiction will be strengthened. Indeed, as part of the reform of the social courts initiated by the law of modernisation of the justice of the 21st century of 18 November 2016, it was foreseen that a court of appeal would have jurisdiction from 1 January 2019 for the whole of France to deal with the tariff dispute of the Social Security which so far fell under the jurisdiction of the National Court of the incapacity and the pricing of the insurance of accidents at work. However, the decree of 5 January 2017 has already appointed the Court of Appeal of Amiens to exercise this national jurisdiction. So not only will this court remain in all its powers, but it will have this additional national competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u150	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u151	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I am confident will be followed up with effect. As far as experiments are concerned, I do not know whether they will take place in my corner or not, but I hope that we will also ask for the opinion of the guinea pigs!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u152	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u153	Mr Alain Bruneel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 267, concerning the Courts of Douai.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u154	Last week, Madam Minister, in this House, I had the opportunity to ask the Government whether it heard the anger of the French, and particularly that of the professions of justice. Without any pretension, I did not have an answer to my question. Yet in all jurisdictions, anger is still as strong. Lawyers, magistrates, clerks, administrative staff: all plead against the announced reform of the justice system. The conclusions reached in the context of the justice projects call for new methods of work aimed, I quote, at ensuring "a mesh of justice irrigating all the territories, a more legible geographical organization and better access to the law and the judge". When I read the Justice Programming Bill, I see it as a collapse of the judicial system to the detriment, once again, of the most fragile litigants and territories. Of course, you do not use the term "closure" when it comes to courts of first instance or courts of first instance, preferring the term "merger". However, the courts of appeal are courts of proximity, quick, clearly identified and close to the litigants. These future places, emptied of their original skills, will become "super-courts", but without having more resources or staff. You also propose dematerialization. The resolution of small disputes will be totally dehumanized and will sometimes take place without a hearing, without any possibility of access to the judge. Today, the trial courts have six months of processing time compared to 15 months in the courts of major jurisdiction, and an appeal rate of only 6 per cent. Then my question will be simple: why go after what works? Another point of disagreement is the specialisation of courts and appellate courts that may occur at any time by order-in-council, upon the advice of the chiefs. In support of my point, I will take the example of a couple starting divorce proceedings in Douai, but who, in order to deal with the liquidation of their community of life, may have to go to Dunkirk or some other city to go to a court specializing in the matter. Forgive me, Madam Minister, but I do not see any simplification or proximity to the people who stand here.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u155	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u156	Mr President, I would like briefly to reaffirm here my ambition for justice, which will be the red line of the programming law. The aim is to ensure that justice is both closer, more efficient and faster for those who are litigants – who are at the centre of the whole reform. That is why I repeat to you, honourable Member, that all the courts of appeal will be kept in full exercise of their powers, which will be guaranteed by decree, with the corresponding assignment of magistrates. This shows our willingness to guarantee the proximity of justice to the justiciable. The High Courts will also be kept in full exercise of their jurisdiction. Simply, in departments where there are several, if chiefs of courts wish to allocate expertise so as to achieve a balanced grid across the territory, we will be able to examine these proposals on the ground. Be careful, I'm not talking about divorce, but about low-volume skills, very complex and very technical. There is nothing here that keeps the accused from his judges; On the contrary, this possibility must make justice faster and more effective, since cases will be handled by judges who are fully aware of the cases. Finally, honourable Member, I will not insult you to think that you are opposed to the digitisation of justice, a process that affects all administrations. Again, it is not a matter of distancing the litigants, but rather of making justice more accessible by allowing legal professionals and citizens to access all their files online, and by speeding up the processing of cases. It is not necessary to demonize each of the measures that will be proposed, but to measure their exact impact. However, this impact is built on the basis of the justiciable and the requirements that the latter is entitled to have towards the public service of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u157	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u158	I have heard your answer, minister, but let my fears remain. Dematerialization can suppress human contact with the justiciable and what you are proposing – but I may have misunderstood – seems to me to keep the citizen more and more away from justice. Specialisation can also be a factor in remoteness, especially in a department as large as that of the North.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u159	Mr Christophe Jerretie, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 269, on the future of the establishments of the ex-GIAT Industries in Tulle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u160	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Armed Forces to the future of several industrial sites in the city of Tulle, which produce in the field of defence. The former Tulle National Weapons Manufacture houses three industrial establishments: Nexter Mechanics, the Graphics Pole and a detachment from the 13th support base of the equipment. In recent years, these historic weapons sites have seen changes in numbers, efficiency and problems; they have been the subject of announcements of restructuring or even dissolution. The three establishments have a history, they are important for the municipality of Tulle: these are jobs, but also life at the heart of a basin. Today, some are facing a planned disappearance, while others are facing the need for consolidation. The situation of these three sites, which depend on the Ministry of Defence and its commands, needs to be clarified. The city of Tulle has been chosen for the Action Cœur de Ville plan, which requires special attention to economic and historical aspects. I would like to know more about these three sites: what is the future of the Graphics Pole that depends on your ministry, the detachment of the 13th base of material support and of Nexter Mechanics, whose former Minister of Defence, today Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Le Drian, had referred to consolidation? I suggest that you discuss this and I look forward to your clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u161	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u162	Mr President, you are asking me about the future of the various powers which depend on the Ministry of Armed Forces or which are indirectly linked to the world of defence, in Corrèze and more specifically to Tulle. As you said, the Corrèze is a place of welcome for the defence agencies, and it will remain so. As you recalled, the 13th Earth Support Base is located in Tulle. This base is a major logistical and industrial player for the army, and is on the front line to accompany the uplift of the ground force according to the objectives of maintenance in operational condition by 2025. The Tulle site is specifically responsible for supporting studies and engineering for the benefit of all ground maintenance units. The draft law on military programming, adopted at first reading by the National Assembly by a large majority, devotes an unprecedented increase in appropriations related to the maintenance of operational conditions and the programmed maintenance of equipment. This increase will ensure the regeneration of equipment and an adequate level of availability of equipment and vehicles. In this way, €22 billion will be spent over the period 2019-2023, or €4.4 billion per year on average. This is an important additional effort. To meet this challenge, we rely on all the skills that are being used for the 13th Base of Material Support: I want to point out that the 13th Base of Equipment was recruited in 2017 and will also be recruited in 2018. The situation of the Tulle Graphics Pole, which does not have the same object, is not at all the same. This hub was created in 2004 to compensate for a restructuring plan of GIAT Industries, and individually accompany each of its agents. Currently, 41 officers are working there. Thanks to their expertise, they produce a wide range of communication media for the department's headquarters, covering the entire graphic industry chain: composition, printing, finishing and dissemination. To take an example, it was Tulle's Graphics Pole that published the 2017 Strategic Defence Review – which you all read, I don't doubt! The inclusion of this pole in December 2017 on the list of restructured entities caused a misunderstanding and a strong emotion in terms of human resources. In fact, it was simply a matter of allowing those who were retiring, particularly State workers, to benefit from voluntary severance benefits. The department does not intend to deprive itself of the production capacity it needs. In the long term, due to the age pyramid, a number of retirements are planned. An establishment project will be developed to define a strategy for this site: its conclusions are expected by the end of the year at the latest. I'm going to the third site, Nexter Mechanics. It seems to me that the investment that will be made in equipment by the Nexter Group, which is our industrial partner, during the period covered by the future law of military programming, is likely to answer your questions. To take an example, on February 12, the Minister of Armed Forces announced...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u163	We must conclude, Madam Secretary of State, if you want Mr Jerretie to be able to speak again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u164	...the award of a contract that will allow Nexter to continue its activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u165	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor. Mr. Member, you only have thirteen seconds left!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u166	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the correctness of your remarks. You have differentiated the three sites well. We will be following closely the developments – which we hope will be favourable – of the measures you have announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u167	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to raise her question, No. 296, on soldiers injured in operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u168	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, when I tabled this question a few weeks ago, I did not know that it would, alas, be so topical. We learned this weekend that several French soldiers were injured in Mali in an attack on the camps of the Barkhane force and the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Mission – MINUSMA. These injuries are in addition to those of last month. The dead in operation are known, and rightly publicized, especially with the tribute organized on the Alexander III Bridge, which allows us to salute the commitment of these men and women who chose to serve France under the flags, and to remind our compatriots of the importance of the missions they carry out in the various theatres of operations. However, the wounded are almost ignored; In any case, they are rarely mentioned in this Chamber. The annual report of the High Military Condition Assessment Committee, published in December 2017, recalls that between 2007 and 2016 more than 600 soldiers were physically injured. In addition, psychological injuries, which are more difficult to detect, may occur several months after the event. Some wounded may hope to find all their faculties one day; but those who suffer serious injuries will keep their lives alive. Whether physically or psychologically affected, they deserve special attention from the nation, for it is for it that they have been injured. That is why I would like to know how many people have been injured in operation for the past year. Is this number, as some sources report, increasing? I would also like to have specific information on the nature and severity of the injuries. I would also like to have some information on the arrangements put in place by the Ministry of Armed Forces to take care of these wounded – care facilities, short- and medium-term follow-up and reintegration schemes – both within the military institution and in the civilian world. Finally, I would like to know if there are any accompaniments for the families of those injured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u169	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u170	Madam Member, you are right: current events require us to pay particular attention to our wounded soldiers. On all fields of operations our armies are exposed to significant risks. The Ministry of Armed Forces is taking charge of this important issue in a very conscientious manner, with a great deal of commitment. The assessment of the number of wounded and ill in service is coordinated by the Armed Forces Health Service. The report gives the following figures for 2017: 28 military personnel were injured in external operation by firearms or explosive devices, and 226 mental disorders related to a traumatic event were reported. These figures are significantly lower than in previous years. This trend is linked to changes in the level and nature of military engagements in theatres of operations. With regard to post-traumatic mental disorders, we must remain vigilant. It is much more delicate, in this regard, to speak of a trend since – as you know – these injuries have the peculiarity of being able to appear at a distance from the traumatic event. The care of the wounded and the sick is monitored individually, involving many actors in order to allow for a perfect rehabilitation and reintegration to each of the injured, regardless of the origin or circumstances of the injury – external operations, internal operations or other. First, the women and men in the army health service take care of our wounded directly in theatres of operations, as close as possible to the site of the wounds, in contact with the fighting if necessary. They are the first links in a complete and autonomous operational medical chain that allows our military to ensure the best chances of survival with a minimum of sequelae. Very many preventive actions are carried out, especially for psychological syndromes, with the presence of psychiatrists in the theatres of operations, to prevent difficulties. Secondly, whether the injury is physical or psychological, the path of the injured person continues in the national territory until the complete and definitive reintegration of our wounded, in coordination with the public health service. The armies, through the army health service as well as the army-specific injured aid cells, offer an individualized reconstruction path. Third, the Armed Forces Social Action provides psycho-social support to all wounded soldiers and their families, as well as to bereaved families. Fourthly, the Defence Conversion Agency develops an offer of services adapted to the injured: training, assessment of skills, assistance for integration into the civilian population. Fifthly, the National Disability Delegation accompanies the injured person if he/she is recruited as civilian personnel within the Ministry of Armed Forces, whether he/she is physically or psychologically disabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u171	Madam Secretary of State, if you want to give Mrs Le Pen the opportunity to respond, you have to stop there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u172	Finally, the National Veterans Office intervenes when the wounded have left the military world itself and follows them over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u173	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor to raise her question, No. 283, on hospital centres in the Ardennes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u174	Mr President, I would have liked the Minister of Health to answer this question, which is fully within her competence. Although I have a great deal of respect for you, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, who is responsible for veterans, I do not find this very appropriate. Madam Secretary of State, it will become difficult – if not impossible – to offer the Ardennes, as well as the inhabitants of all rural or urban areas, the same quality of care as everywhere else in France. Our country was rightly proud of this quality of care. Life expectancy was and still is up to date. But will it last? At the Manchester Hospital in Charleville-Mézières, the medical and paramedical community has already folded down several times to the constraints of a return-to-balance plan. Much effort has been made, and the suffering and incomprehension of caregivers are at their height. Moreover, the perverse effects of activity pricing are felt everywhere, especially when such pricing occurs alone, and the smallest hospital facilities in France are the most affected. This hospital is already faced with multiple structural constraints, and the prospect of a new plan of bed removals and staff compression makes it feared that its situation would worsen. He suffers from severe medical demography, with the obligation to resort to mercenary doctors, which heavily affects the budget of hospitals. Moreover, the population density does not offset the loss of profits due to lower rates for medical procedures. Finally, the social situation of the department is difficult: for years the rate of unemployed people and beneficiaries of social minimums has been higher than the national averages. In this context, the least additional effort degrades the attractiveness of the institution and thus worsens its budgetary position. For 2018, a deficit result of €5.4 million is expected. The same applies to the Belair Psychiatric Hospital, where the social impact has not been taken into account by the regional health agency. That is why I ask you to give your full attention to these two health facilities in Charleville-Mézières, beyond the political contingencies. I would like to associate my colleague Pierre Cordier with my question. Madam Secretary of State, the State must ensure equal access to quality care. To do this, we need to find a balance, to grant compensation. What do you intend to do, in budgetary terms, for these two Ardennes institutions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u175	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u176	Madam Member, I apologize to the Minister responsible for health, Agnès Buzyn. If that can reassure you, however, know that I am a little familiar with health issues, since I am a doctor myself. The performance plan you are talking about has a clear and simple objective: to ensure a sustainable, safe and quality health offering that meets the needs of the people of northern Ardennes. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to better distribute the activities of the institutions in this territory, by developing territorialised care channels, within the framework of an action plan integrating all fields of health. Depending on the needs, the RSA of the Grand Est region is committed to financially supporting the investment plans of the establishments with an envelope of between 10 and 20 million euros. It has already provided funding for the reconstruction of the central sterilization service at the Manchester hospital, amounting to almost €5 million. Finally, in January 2018, it supported the cash flow of the Sedan hospital in the amount of €3 million. We share the findings of the institutions you mentioned: it is difficult to recruit hospital doctors in this area of the Ardennes. But it must be recognised that this is a bit the case throughout France! The Faculty of Medicine of Reims, the hospital centres of Charleville and Sedan and the ARS Grand Est are implementing concrete actions to deal with this shortage, within the framework of the hospital-university convention of the hospital group of territory. These include the creation and financing of shared assistant posts between the Reims University Hospital and the North Ardennes region pole teams. Unmet needs have already been identified by the Greater East SAR: vaccination policy, accompaniment to mental disorders, health – with home hospitalization, follow-up and rehabilitation care, the territorial support platform – and medico-social. Among the departments of the Grand Est region, the Ardennes department has the highest per capita suicide rate. We are, of course, very attentive. Based on this observation, it is planned to formalise in 2018 a departmental mental health plan, drawing on the expertise of the psychiatric hospital in Bélair and the important community network that exists in this field, and following a methodology of the national agency supporting the performance of health and medical-social institutions, ANAP. As you can see, the Minister of Solidarity and Health and the RSA are particularly committed to your territory. The difficulties associated with activity pricing, which you mentioned, are a reality: this will be taken into account in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u177	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u178	Madam Secretary of State, I have absolutely no doubt about your personal skills and thank you for your answer, but I really wanted to draw the attention of the Minister of Health to the problem of the staff of this hospital who have already made very important efforts and are in great pain. It is absolutely essential that the State provide complementary envelopes so that these personnel do not exhaust themselves. Otherwise we enter into a vicious circle that would become appalling in terms of the provision of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u179	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor to raise his question, No. 272, on career paths for disabled children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u180	The overhaul of the scheme of assisted contracts has resulted, in the department of Indre-et-Loire as elsewhere, in the non-renewal of contracts for school life assistants and the introduction of a new scheme, the job path skills – the PEC. However, between the assisted contract phase and the recruitment into the CEC of a person capable of caring for children with disabilities, a period of time may vary. In my department, parents alerted me that their children were no longer accompanied since October 2017. The arrangements for recruitment and renewal of contracts under the CECs raise difficulties in the employment of persons accompanying children with disabilities, particularly in rural areas. The new recruitment framework, defined by the circular of 11 January 2018 on CECs, tightens up eligible audiences and includes new obligations which appear not to be compatible with the stated objective of a rapid and effective care of pupils with disabilities: first of all, the persons eligible for CECs must come from the priority areas of the city's policy which, in Indre-et-Loire, are located almost entirely in the metropolis of Tours, suggesting that the recruitment of school assistants is not complicated in rural areas, whether in Lochois, Chinonais or the north of the department; Secondly, the recruitment period has increased due to the requirement for national education to hold tripartite talks between DASEN – the academic director of the national education services –, Pôle Emploi and the candidates for recruitment, which prolongs the procedure while children and families have been in arrears for several months; Finally, the overall objective of twelve months for contracts raises fears for professionals and families of an increase in the turnover of staff, while the construction of a lasting link between the attendant and the pupil promotes integration into the school environment and apprenticeships, and at the same time, trained AVS giving satisfaction have now been removed from the accompanying arrangements. In addition to these difficulties related to the PEC system, there is another problem: the inadequacy between the estimated need of the Departmental Houses for Persons with Disabilities for the number of accompaniment hours required for each child according to his or her degree of disability, and the stock of hours available in the budget envelope which the Academy can direct towards the Department, especially since a fungibility between the PECs under ordinary law and those caring for children with disabilities is not possible. The development of accompaniment for students with disabilities wanted by our majority is now subject to employment policy. Madam Secretary of State, can the Government inform me of the ways in which this policy can be radically recast? Could we consider, for example, linking the recruitment of AVS to the Ministry of National Education?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u181	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u182	Mr. MP, school support for children with disabilities is one of the Government's priorities, with a clear objective: the inclusion of all children in school, without distinction. However, this support has long been based on employment policy arrangements, including aided contracts. The latter have made it possible to overcome the lack of resources allocated to this mission, but the framework is now changing. Since 2016, the Ministry of National Education has been implementing a plan to create 32000 CDI to support students with disabilities, which also includes the gradual transformation of 560,000 assisted contracts. To respond to the emergency, the department decided to go further and strengthen this effort by opening an additional 4,500 positions. As the needs are massive, the allocation of a large volume of job path skills dedicated to the accompaniment of students with disabilities was maintained in 2018. For positions of school life assistants, the stakes are twofold. First of all, it is a question of meeting the goal of school inclusion; Secondly, and equally important, to apply to these assisted contracts the qualitative transformation desired by the Government, which means more training, better support, stronger follow-up by the prescriber, and thus increased opportunities for the beneficiary to enter into sustainable employment. National education is committed to a systematic training of 60 hours for all persons recruited on skills pathways. The implementation of these new qualitative obligations for AVS posts has been the subject of a joint note between the ministries concerned and Pôle Emploi, which was recently forwarded to the deconcentrated departments. It should ensure a smooth statute of limitations for such contracts. The services concerned will of course be attentive to its implementation in order to avoid any situation of blockage. A shift towards quality and training seems to us to be particularly essential for successful inclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u183	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u184	I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for reaffirming our common political will to improve the care of children with disabilities in schools. I would also like to thank you for these extremely precise figures that illustrate this political will. I simply wished to draw the Government's attention to the transitional phase between the end of the old assisted contracts and the new recruitments in CEC, because it was during this phase that families and children were in a situation of suffering because there were no accompanying persons, especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u185	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor to put his question, No 285, on the future of the Lesquin customs unit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u186	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Public Affairs and Accounts, almost two years ago, I was asking the Government here about the future of Lesquin's customs unit. Indeed, on 8 February 2016, as part of the strategic project of the Lille Interregional Customs Directorate, the Technical Network Committee took the decision to merge the brigades of Lesquin and Baisieux. This merger would result in the closure of the Lesquin site by grouping the two units on the only Baisieux site. The decision has since been suspended, but the draft remains valid. The presence of a customs brigade in Lesquin is however strategic because of the proximity of Lille-Lesquin International Airport. The State and the region, under the leadership of its President Xavier Bertrand, share the ambition to increase the number of visitors to this airport, in line with the desire to develop regional platforms. This customs brigade, whose premises are made available by the airport, carries out major missions on a particularly sensitive site, such as security, health and anti-fraud missions. The customs unit is therefore called upon to be asked more and more, on increasingly numerous and complex missions, due to the terrorist threat but also to the challenges of Brexit. It therefore seems contradictory to weaken it by moving away from it geographically and by abandoning the valuable experience accumulated by the customs officers stationed at Lesquin. It is quite obvious that customs officials gathered in Baisieux will not be able to ensure a systematic presence on arrivals of flights of extra-Community origin. A few days ago, after learning of the subject, Minister Gérald Darmanin assured that the customs presence in Lesquin would be maintained, but without specifying the terms and conditions. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me whether the proposed merger with the Baisieux unit is permanently abandoned and whether the current staffing in Lesquin will be maintained in its entirety? Finally, what means does the Government intend to use to enable customs officers to carry out their missions at and around Lesquin airport?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u187	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u188	Mr Member, as you have just pointed out, the strategic plan of the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Rights, a real roadmap which, by 2020, set out its guidelines – support for competitiveness, simplification and dematerialisation of procedures or the strengthening of the system for combating tax fraud – had led the Interregional Directorate of Customs and Indirect Rights of the Hauts-de-France to call for a new scheme of supervision which aims in particular to optimise the customs presence on the roads and motorways serving the three largest European ports for container traffic – Rotterdam, Antwerp and Zeebrugge. These routes connect the Brussels, Schiphol and Roissy airports, and are therefore transit routes which are widely used by criminal gangs and traffickers. This scheme envisaged the regrouping of the Lesquin Brigade with that of Baisieux, 16 kilometres away, in order to allow the formation of a higher unit, composed of more than fifty agents, more versatile and with greater flexibility of employment, a better projection capacity on the roads and motorways of the Lille agglomeration as well as on the relatively sensitive border areas and on the Lille-Lesquin airport. A number of concerns have arisen, and Minister Gérald Darmanin has taken an interest in the matter, not only because it concerns the Hauts-de-Frances, but also and above all because customs fall within his area of competence. This morning, he met Christophe Coulon, president of the joint union of Lille-Lesquin airport, and they exchanged with other local actors on the issue that you are talking about. At the end of this meeting was announced the continuation of the Lille-Lesquin airport brigade. The terms and conditions will be specified as well as the way in which the development of airport traffic will be accompanied by the initiative, as you said, of the Hauts-de-France region. But the will is clear: the brigade will be well maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u189	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u190	Very well, Secretary of State, I welcome this answer. But the devil, in the details, you will understand that I wait very impatiently to know under what conditions this maintenance will be carried out: will the numbers be preserved in full or, as some speakers and customs officers fear, will it be only a permanence of two or three customs officers? It's very important. In any case, I thank you for the guidance you have indicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u191	Mr Jean Lassalle, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 297, on the disappearance of public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u192	As my speaking time is limited, I am compelled, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Public Affairs and Public Accounts, to present a series of cascade questions to you, and I am sorry. In view of the good relations I had with the President of the Republic before his election, I sent him a request for an appointment on 19 July 2017 to present to him my immense constituency, which combines sea and mountains, with a view to setting up a laboratory for a new policy of the territories. However, I was opposed to an end to not receiving it. When the Somport road tunnel was opened almost twenty years ago, the national road 134 – renamed European 7 – leading to it had to be improved, including deviations for the most affected municipalities. Nothing has ever been done. Despite years of initiatives and proposals, and the fact that the mayor of Oloron-Sainte-Marie has found the necessary doctors, the maternity of Oloron, as well as that of Saint-Claude in the Jura and so many others, has been closed. At a time when we are talking about equality between men and women, some women who live in a territory of piedmonts and valleys are in 2018 at two hours thirty of the nearest maternity! The hospital in Oloron is itself, with its 400 employees, sentenced within a few months, while it covers a living pool of 600,000 inhabitants. You're about to close Mauléon's gendarmerie company. The Mauléon slaughterhouse is also in great difficulty. Our territory has never lost as many school posts as this year. The Auteuil Apprentis Charitable Foundation dismissed its eighty employees from Audaux, in the Béarnaise countryside, to relocate to Pau – with the agreement of François Bayrou, the current mayor. Our territory is no longer even recognized as capable of training apprentices! What a message of hope for our young people! I presented last December with Marc Lassus, the creator and the world distributor of the smart card, to the President's entourage a very beautiful project that could bring clean water, energy, wifi and the development of permaculture. This would be the solution to the difficulties of Saint-Barthélemy and Saint-Martin and all the territories affected by typhoons, as well as a great tool for cooperation with countries in search of development; hundreds of jobs ahead of us in our department. You personally, Mr. Secretary of State, answered very well on this subject a few days ago. Finally, certainly considering the timing, the Government is about to introduce – which will make it six in total – two Slovenian bears in our house, in the Pyrenees, starting next September, thus ruining a reborn pastoralism. Does the Government finally envisage providing some answers to so many questions and to the immense sense of abandonment that my compatriots feel?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u193	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u194	Mr President, you have indeed raised many issues and many projects that are dear to you and which, I am sure, will be able to flourish in the coming weeks. Let me answer only two points: the medical questions on the one hand and the Government's ambition for rural development on the other. For some time now, the maternity of Oloron-Sainte-Marie has experienced a series of serious adverse events that have raised real questions about the safety and quality of the care of women and infants in the territory. Since 2014, maternity has recorded four serious adverse events, while only 22 such events have been recorded in all maternity wards in New Aquitaine during the same period. In view of the proven risk, the professionals of the hospital centre and the liberal doctors of the territory have repeatedly alerted the authorities concerned to the need to find an alternative to this establishment. Maternity was also faced with a major problem of medical demography. The only obstetrician gynecologist had announced the arrest of his obstetrical guards at the end of 2017; Among its two usual substitutes, one was a 69-year-old practitioner; In addition, since May 2015, there was no longer a full-time pediatrician in maternity; Finally, she resorted massively to acting. As the permanence of paediatric care could not be ensured under regulatory conditions, this had led, on three occasions, to the closure of the delivery tray. In view of this extremely degraded mode of operation, the New Aquitaine Regional Health Agency was unable to allow the situation to continue. As early as November 2015, the medical board of establishment of the hospital centre, with the support of the directorates of the hospital centres of Pau and Oloron, had voted in favour of the establishment of a perinatal centre of proximity – CPC – in place of maternity. It reiterated its position in this regard, and unanimously, in October 2017. The Regional Health Agency has sought to build on the competencies within maternity. A real public health project, built with perinatal networks and liberal midwives, was therefore envisaged. The PPC will provide prenatal and post-natal care for women and newborns on the territory concerned, and in much better security conditions. I come to another aspect of your question, the accompaniment of rural life. The Government is fully mobilized on this subject and acts in particular through the maintenance of operating and investment endowments, the development of broadband and digital technology throughout the territories at an accelerated pace compared to what was originally planned, finally, through, under the auspices of Jacques Mézard and Julien Denormandie, specific tools for the benefit of the city-centres. The Government has one objective: to ensure that the most rural territories, such as your constituency, the deputy, are better accompanied by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u195	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u196	Mr Secretary of State, you who have shown understanding of me a few days ago, I simply ask you one thing: that some of your colleagues – perhaps you yourself – receive me, so that I can report directly on these problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u197	Mr Paul Molac, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 275, concerning the situation of the Arkéa Mutual Credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u198	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, I would like to ask you about the conflict between Crédit Mutuel Arkéa and Crédit Mutuel 11-CIC. This conflict has worsened, leading the first to launch a consultation with its local caisses on the principle of independence in the face of the centralizing will of the majority branch of the National Confederation of Crédit Mutuel. Grouping together the federations of Brittany, the South-West and the Central Massif, the Arkéa group, in a long-term logic, invests fully in the regional economy. With 10,000 jobs based in the region and local decision-making – the headquarters being located in the Relecq-Kerhuon, near Brest, Finistère – Arkéa has grown to seventh in net banking revenue at the national level. In addition, Arkéa has the highest level of financial strength and a self-financing capacity of 93% in the French banking sector. At the European level, it is also in the first quarter of the 120 banks supervised by the European Central Bank. In addition, at regional level, it posted Brittany's first private result in 2018. The results of the Arkéa group prove that it is possible to succeed by focusing on the real economy, which is contrary to the model targeted by Crédit Mutuel 11-CIC: that of universal bank present on all continents and in all trades, including the financing and investment bank. The centralisation, or rather the rationalization initiated by the National Council of Mutual Credit since the autumn of 2015, raises concerns about the disappearance of central services, subsidiaries, caisses, agencies and business centres in the regions. The risk to employment of such a development is estimated to be at least 4,500 jobs, both direct and indirect. In full compliance with its statutes and in the spirit of cooperative and mutual governance, Arkéa has launched a process of consultation of its local caisses on the independence of the group. The final results will not be formalized until tomorrow. However, all the evidence available at this stage indicates that the vote will be a real plebiscite in favour of the independence of the Arkéa Group and its local caisses. How does the Government intend to recognize the outcome of this consultation and the political will that will have been clearly expressed by the local caisses of the Arkéa group? Similarly, how does he intend to maintain Arkéa as a cooperative and mutual bank?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u199	Allow me, my dear colleague, to associate myself with this question. Perhaps others in this chamber will do so as well. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u200	Mr President, first of all I would like to remind the national representative that the public authorities have always sought to promote an exit from the current situation of Crédit Mutuel, i.e. a solution which does not weaken the group or the mutual sector as a whole and which respects the identities of each of the sub-groups. This was the objective of the mediation mission entrusted to Christian Noyer by the Chief Executive Officer of the Treasury and the Governor of the Banque de France. The Government shares the conclusions of this mission, both as regards the preferable nature of the maintenance of unity and as regards possible ways of separation, should it prove inevitable. In any event, while the leaders of Crédit Mutuel Arkéa launched at the end of March a consultation of the boards of directors of their local caisses in order to obtain a policy vote on the principle of separation with the rest of the Crédit Mutuel group, the Government wishes to be firm on two points. First, this dispute, which is internal to the Crédit Mutuel group, falls under its various components. The prospects of separation that Crédit Mutuel Arkéa might present cannot be based on the assumption of a change in the legislative framework of mutual banks. The Government does not want to change it. Not only would such a change be tantamount to taking sides in a group's internal conflict, but, above all, it would be likely, in the spirit of the European regulator in particular, to lead to a weakening of the mutualistic model as a whole. As a result, after a possible separation decision with the Crédit Mutuel group, Crédit Mutuel Arkéa would lose its status as a mutual banking institution and would not be able to apply for a new authorisation of the same nature. The Government was also firm on another point: the new establishment to be set up could choose, under certain conditions, to remain in the cooperative sector, with the characteristics attached to it in terms of governance and membership in the world of the social and solidarity economy. It is essential that a possible vote on separation be preceded by full and precise information from members on the planned separation scenario, as well as on its legal, prudential, financial and commercial implications. It is a matter of the sincerity and credibility of the consultation of members on a strategic choice whose consequences – in terms of the risks, structure, strategy, and even the viability of the group Crédit Mutuel Arkéa – are potentially very important for members, employees and customers, if the way of separation were to come to pass. The Government is not yet aware of such a scenario, which it is for the leaders of Crédit Mutuel Arkéa to define. As the press has echoed, the French and European supervisory authorities, which have nevertheless taken note of the dossier submitted to the members during the consultation on which you are asking me, are also not aware of it. They were therefore unable, a fortiori, to decide on the risks that would result from Arkéa's secession, and will only be able to do so once such a scenario has been formally presented to them. In any case, these authorities will be called upon to decide on this matter, in so far as it is they who, if the separation were to materialize, will give or not the approval of the new entity. In summary, the public authorities are primarily interested in ensuring the protection of depositors, Crédit Mutuel Group customers and all mutual banks. In order to achieve this, beyond the particular case of Arkéa, it is essential for us to ensure the stability of the legislative framework of the French mutualist groups. Within this framework and subject to these reservations, the Government calls on the leaders of the Crédit Mutuel group to exercise the utmost diligence as well as full transparency towards members as well as clients of Crédit Mutuel Arkéa if they were to be asked to decide on a final separation from the Crédit Mutuel group. In any event, such an operation should take place in full transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u201	Mr Paul Molac has the floor very briefly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u202	I understand and understand the Government's concern to protect depositors. Today, separation seems inevitable to me. I note that the Government is open to the possibility of a new establishment within the cooperative sector, and that seems to me a good thing. It is also the will of the local caisses to remain within the social and solidarity economy sector. But I don't see how this separation could be avoided. And everyone knows that sometimes better is a good separation than a bad household!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u203	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to put his question, No 280, on the revitalization of the LyondellBasell site.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u204	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, a source of pride and progress, our industry is a force capable of spreading our territories. But it must be able to adapt to a changing world. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the importance of supporting the revitalization of our sites whose industrial activities are being reduced, or have sometimes simply ceased, and of facilitating the transition of these sites to more innovative and sustainable activities. In my riding of Bouches-du-Rhône, in Berre-l'Étang, the LyondellBasell refinery has been closed for six years. If a revitalization process is under way, it faces multiple obstacles: difficulty in mobilizing investors, limited industrial ambition of the proposed projects. However, this site, located on the shores of the ecological gem of the Berre pond, has everything to benefit from a revitalization commensurate with the potential of its territory. Well connected, the LyondellBasell site is located in a skilled employment pool, with recognised skills in the aeronautics, digital, petrochemical and energy sectors. Mr Secretary of State, I am convinced – indeed shared by all the actors in this territory – that this site classified Seveso could be the showcase of a French industrial ambition. Under the impetus of the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence and its president, Jean-Claude Gaudin, the region, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Grand Port maritime de Marseille, as well as the industrial players, joined forces and launched Provence Industry 'Nov. This call for expressions of interest aims not only to attract innovative industrial projects but also to make this metropolis a champion able to attract the best. Mr. Secretary of State, I know your willingness to make our industry and our territories radiate: could you recall the Government's ambitions to modernize existing industrial sites in our territories? With regard to the specific issue of the LyondellBasell refinery, what additional measures to the AMI – aid for modernisation through investment – could be envisaged to accompany the revitalization of the site?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u205	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u206	Mr President, the State is scrupulously monitoring the quality and effectiveness of the plans for revitalisation, giving priority, wherever possible and realistic, to the establishment of new industrial activities. That is the ambition behind the obligation to revitalise the restructuring or capacity reduction plans that weigh heavily on our territories, and on yours in particular, Mr. Engaged in April 2015 for a period of two years, the revitalisation plan of the former LyondellBasell refinery, located in Berre - l'Étang, was renewed, for two more years, in agreement with the company. This plan must lead to the creation of 100 jobs and concerns an exceptional space both in its size – 122 hectares – as well as in its Seveso status, its density of network equipment – steam, gas, electricity, water – and in its services to businesses. The follow-up committee to the revitalization agreement held in February 2017 studied two implementation projects: the first from the Charles André group, which proposes a logistics activity for the preparation of new cars intended for sale to the general public. This activity, already existing in the vicinity of the municipality of Berre and currently employing 40 people, would then be relocated and would allow the creation, by 2020, of 110 additional jobs. The second project, Baytree, consists of the creation of a logistics warehouse for the management of products compatible with activities classified Seveso. The proposed land is located in Vaine, south of the refinery, on a land right-of-way of 15 hectares, and 170 jobs could be created. Other projects, with too little impact, were not selected by the selection committee. While the two qualified projects are potentially creating a significant number of jobs, their selection process has illustrated the difficulty encountered by the management teams of the revitalization plan in attracting industrial projects as close as possible to the historic activities of the platform, which would have the preference of elected officials, like yourself, the deputy, but also that of the Government. The implementation of these new economic activities, which use the iron branch line, is a real opportunity to revitalize the site, whose infrastructure will be maintained, which is a factor of attractiveness for future industrial projects. In addition to the two projects mentioned above, the State and local authorities have decided to commit themselves to attracting new industrial activities to the site. A call for expressions of interest will be launched in April 2018 with a view to providing enhanced support by the public authorities. Focusing on three platforms in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, including that of LyondellBasell, this call will aim to attract private projects that can contribute to the emergence of a sector around bio-industries; This is indeed the ambition we have for the site. The whole government, including Bruno Le Maire, whom I represent today, knows, Mr.Le Maire, your ambition for this site and your involvement in its revitalization projects. You will of course be kept informed by our services, and our respective offices remain at your disposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u207	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u208	I would just like to thank you, Secretary of State, for this answer, and invite you to the shores of the Berre pond so that we can exchange on the potentialities of the site.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u209	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Auconie, to put her question, No. 293, on the tax system for expenditure related to dependency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u210	Mr Secretary of State, the tax treatment of expenses incurred as a result of a person's dependence is different depending on whether the person is housed in a care facility, a situation which is subject to Article 199 ndecies of the General Tax Code, or whether he receives care or home help, a situation which is subject to Article 199 sexdecies of the same Code. The tax implications of these two schemes are quite different. In the case of residential dependents, a situation which is therefore subject to Article 199d of the General Tax Code, this is a tax reduction equal to 25% of the amounts withheld, up to EUR 10000 per guest, i.e. a maximum benefit of EUR 2500 per guest. On the other hand, in the case of the employment of an employee at home, which is therefore subject to Article 199 sexdecies of the General Tax Code, where the ceiling of EUR 20000 of expenditure is applied to persons fulfilling the conditions of invalidity, the maximum tax benefit is equal to EUR 10000 per tax home. This creates a kind of double penalty for families who, unable to cope alone with the illness of their loved ones, resolve to place them in a care facility adapted to the severe handicaps, especially for spouses who are forced to take on the burden of hospitalization. I would like to stress, as Mr Jacques Toubon, the Defender of Rights, in a letter addressed to the Ministry on 18 November 2016, the need for a harmonisation of these tax systems, because their differences do not allow for a good understanding of the rule of law by taxpayers. Is this harmonization envisaged by the Government?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u211	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u212	As you pointed out, Member, the tax treatment of expenses incurred as a result of an individual's dependence is different depending on whether the individual is housed in a care facility or receiving a home helper. In the first case, accommodation expenses are eligible for the tax reduction related to dependency provided for in Article 199d of the General Tax Code, while in the second case, expenditure on services to the person is eligible for the tax credit for the employment of an employee at home provided for in Article 199e of the same Code. In the Government's view, this difference in treatment is justified, as the two mechanisms respond to different logics. Indeed, the rate and ceiling of expenditure retained under the tax credit for the employment of an employee at home have been set at a high level in order to meet a twofold objective: to combat unemployment and hidden work on the one hand; encouraging private individuals to create jobs directly in the neighbourhood, on the other hand. With regard to the reduction of tax on expenditure relating to dependency, the purpose of the reduction is not to compensate in full for the costs resulting from a stay in institutions, but to reduce the contribution of income tax where the person's state of health justifies such an investment. On the other hand, the cost of adapting housing and providing day- and night-time home care services may be more costly in the case of severe pathologies than in the case of care facilities. The expenditure ceiling for the employment of an employee at home has therefore been set so that it allows the use of several services at home, such as the intervention of a caregiver, a domestic worker or the delivery of meals. In addition, the tax advantage for expenditure on dependency is already significant, both by its base – accommodation costs including housing and food – and by the ceiling for eligible expenditure, set at EUR 10000. There are also other tax measures for dependents. Thus, when they hold the inclusion mobility card bearing the mention "disability", as provided for in Article L. 241-3 of the Code of Social Action and Families, i.e. in the case of a disability of at least 80 %, the persons concerned shall receive an additional half share of family quotients and an additional share where each of the spouses holds the card. They also benefit from a reduction on their taxable income, equal to 2376 euros for the taxation of 2017 income if their taxable income does not exceed 14900 euros, and 1188 euros if their taxable income is between 14901 euros and 24000 euros. The amount of the allowance is doubled for married couples when each of the spouses meets the conditions to benefit from it. Finally, if one of the two spouses is housed in an institution for dependent persons and the other spouse uses the services of an employee at home, the two arrangements can be combined up to their respective limits. In any event, the allocation of expenditure related to dependency must be assessed taking into account all the social aids and allowances paid by the State and local and regional authorities to the persons concerned. In this respect, these tax advantages are combined with other provisions that reduce the burden of dependent persons, including social allowances paid by the State and local and regional authorities. This is the case, for example, of the individualized self-sufficiency allowance for dependent elderly persons, who, in addition, are exempt from income tax. You will have understood that, Madam Member: the harmonization you call for of your wishes does not seem to us justified by the objectives pursued through the aid schemes. In my reply, however, I wanted to provide the necessary details concerning the various tax systems and the various arrangements for the allocation of aid and tax credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u213	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u214	I can hear your answer, Secretary of State. That being said, you are a man on the ground, anchored in the territory, and you know how heavy the burden of dependents has become. Today, there are families where parents have to support their children's education and at the same time assume a dependent remainder that cannot be paid by their own parents. As the population ages, I think it is appropriate for us to look closely at this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u215	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u216	The President of the National Assembly received today a communication from the Minister of State, Minister of the Interior, informing him that, on April 15, 2018, Sylvain Brial was elected MP for the constituency of Wallis-et-Futuna.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-17-O1191.u217	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Address by Mr. Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada; Explanations of vote and public vote on the bill for a new railway pact; Further to the discussion of the bill for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration. The meeting is adjourned.
