ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and on healthy and sustainable food (No. 627, 902, 838). The remaining time for the discussion of this text is 11 hours and 20 minutes for the Republic on the move, of which 326 amendments are under discussion; seven hours thirty-two minutes for the Republican Group, of which 716 amendments are under discussion; three hours twenty-eight for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of which 59 amendments are under discussion; four hours forty-two minutes for the IDU, Action and Independent Group, of which 130 amendments are under discussion; four hours thirty-seven minutes for the New Left Group, of which 92 amendments are under discussion; three hours and fifty minutes for the La France group, of which 87 amendments are under discussion; three hours fourteen minutes for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, of which 37 amendments are under discussion, and thirteen minutes for the non-attached Members, of which 130 amendments are under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u2	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with amendment No. 63 on the additional article after article 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u3	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 63, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u4	This amendment concerns a subject which we have discussed in committee and which needs to be legally secure. The "mirror clause" for price revision in the relations between the agricultural cooperative and the co-operator partners must be avoided.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u5	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u6	In line with my comments in article 1 on the cascade contract, there are no a priori reasons for excluding cooperatives from the application of the renegotiation clause of article L. 441-8 of the Commercial Code. These structures are atypical, but they negotiate, like all companies, with large distribution and these downstream negotiations have consequences on the remuneration of their co-operator partners. I am therefore against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u7	The Minister for Agriculture and Food has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u8	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u9	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 2411.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u10	I would like to take this opportunity to return to Article 8, which we adopted before leaving last night, and which dealt with agricultural cooperation. The New Left Group was very reserved in this respect, but the arguments put forward convinced us that cooperation was truly a French passion, which explains our vote on the article. If we do not doubt a second of the intentions of the minister and the rapporteur, who is an expert and activist in this field, the parliamentary debate is valuable. Last night I allowed myself, outside the Chamber, to make a proposal to the Minister: since Article 8 was adopted, it would be appropriate to take the time to hold a round table in the Committee on Economic Affairs with the Minister, representatives of Coop de France and all the stakeholders. This would allow us to contribute to the reflection on the development of ordinances. This subject would probably have deserved a specific law, as much as the relations of cooperatives with associations of producer organisations – AOP – in our country need to be clarified. The key topics of the ethics of cooperatives, the relationship of stakeholders, the relationship to the national and international environment, the size of cooperatives, the relationship with members, or the place of man in the economy would deserve a full parliamentary debate. Otherwise, I proposed a compromise to the minister: it would be a matter of holding a morning of meetings with the committees concerned, which would allow parliamentarians to engage in a dialogue with civil society on the orders that we adopted in spite of us last night. This form of democratic compensation seems to me to be acceptable to all of us. With regard to this amendment, it is inspired by the spirit of the pioneers. If we organize a round table on cooperation, we may be able to remember that this principle was founded by a group called the "fair pioneers of Rochdale", this small city of England where workers claimed that social capital meant that a man equals a voice, that the human was at the centre and was a driving force of the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u11	In agricultural matters, cooperatives were born in Brittany! We don't owe much to the English!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u12	[[Smile]] The Bretons created them later. It is the fruit of multiple currents, including proudhonism and social Christianity. We are not going to repeat the story, but I humbly agree with you, Mr Le Fur: first, the great Britons, then the Bretons, and finally the rest of France! Today, cooperation deserves that we all recast together a very specific point, which is very controversial in our territories: that of private subsidiaries. The New Left group does not have the naivety to want to deprive cooperatives of the creation of private subsidiaries. It would be a total nonsense, which would lead to leaving to totally liberal competitors market shares that cooperatives can naturally hold. However, taking advantage of the advantages conferred on cooperatives by the public authorities obliges them: when subsidiaries are established under private law or when the acquisition of shares in an external company is decided, the principle of transparency vis-à-vis the partners co-operators must, at a minimum, be ensured. A decree will have to define the manner in which this provision is to be applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u13	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u14	In substance, I agree with you, but transparency is normally already ensured at the general meetings. The cooperative is expected to present all accounts, even those relating to private subsidiaries, in a detailed and systematic manner. In any event, this provision would have a greater place in the orders under section 8. We will discuss this again in discussions with the Ministry of Agriculture, which wishes to involve a number of parliamentarians. At this stage, I am against this amendment, although the objective is commendable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u15	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u16	Mr Potier, as I have indicated on several occasions in the national representation, I am of course willing to work with parliamentarians on the content of the orders. I accept your proposal for a round table, which will have to be discussed with the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs. It will indeed be useful to discuss cooperation, its prospects for the future and its integration into our territories. We will work on this within the time frame available for the development of orders. With regard to Amendment No 2411, I am against it, because the cooperative partner is primarily interested in the management of the cooperative and in the strategic guidelines adopted by the board of directors, which he helped to elect. The operative part of the amendment is relevant, but the draft law already provides that transparency in the relationship between cooperatives and cooperative partners is included in the scope of the order provided for in the first paragraph of Article 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u17	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u18	Members of the New Left Group who were present, notably Guillaume Garrot, wanted to discuss this subject. But since you have confirmed to us that the amendment was satisfactory, Minister, we are withdrawing it. I thank you for your commitment to open a debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in the form that the chairman of the Committee will consider appropriate. This democratic debate, in which parliamentarians must be involved, will enrich the ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u19	I have before me an amendment No 2468 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 2725. Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u20	If I have shown diplomacy, openness, goodwill and a constructive spirit, it is that the New Left Group is very much committed to this proposal, which is a key element of our contribution to a project in which, together with Guillaume Garot in particular, we have invested a great deal since the summer of 2017: we have participated in the General Food States and have even had the pleasure of hosting workshops. This proposal was made in four out of fourteen workshops. Between the advocates of liberalism, who think that the profession has only to organize themselves, and those who are tempted to reconnect with an administered agriculture, whose failures are known, there is a place for a society on the move, based on sectors rooted in the territories, where it will be possible for our fellow citizens to change the way of creating value and giving meaning. Value has a meaning not only economic, but also ethical. But consumers are today citizens, and some of them want to invest, quantitatively and qualitatively, in a quality agri-food value chain, as evidenced by the profusion of associative experiences, such as that of "Thank you boss! " Private power sometimes has the flexibility to define what is right and what is good in environmental matters or in economic justice, and it seems to us important that public authorities experiment with something new, creating a label. The Sapin 2 Act and this bill, which brings about improvements that we recognize, enhance fairness and transparency. Thanks in particular to the Sapin 2 law, the commercial relations between processors and distributors are less savage, more loyal and more civilized. But we have not yet experienced a measure to which some private actors aspire – I will not mention any brands, but some have already launched initiatives in this area: the consumer must be able to have products from a chain from which all the actors, from the peasant to the processor, through the distributor, have been paid fairly. We need to experiment with these tripartite contracts, which would be recognizable by our fellow citizens. You could tell us that nothing prevents you from doing this type of contract, but if they are not validated by the public authorities, they lose their strength. It is therefore one of the important proposals from the General Food States, which is fully in the spirit of what brings us together today. We are asking – this is a measure of scope – for a labeling experiment. Our amendment, I agree, is imperfectly drafted; He is missing a provision, which was included in an appeal amendment that we tabled yesterday. We have asked colleagues – Sébastien Jumel has proposed the first – to sub-amend it to improve its reading. The purpose of this amendment is that the territorial interprofessional food convention – which could be called a "tripartite agreement", but its name does not matter – binds a cooperative or producer organisation – could also be added "or a PDO" – one or more processors and a distributor. It would be concluded for a minimum period of three years – we take up the idea expressed in Mr Ramos' amendment, namely to fix, not the duration, but a minimum time. This agreement would define the prices for the sale of the products covered by the agreement, as well as the arrangements for the evolution of those prices; payment deadlines; the conditions for the distribution of the added value of food production within the territory defined by the Convention – it must be understood that the territory can very well designate not only a territorial food plan, an agglomeration, a metropolis, a region, but also the French nation: to each of them to decide – and the environmental, health and social conditions of production – we follow a logic of increasing in range of requirements and added values. This agreement could be made transparent by a label that we want to experiment with, which means adding a sentence, which I will let Sébastien Jumel explain in more detail: "This agreement is recognised by the public authorities as part of a labelling experiment. » Dear friends, we must try the tripartite contract. No one knows whether it will be an important flop or lever of change, but we do not have the right, at this time, to deprive ourselves of such an instrument of accountability of French society, which is intended to draw agriculture up, defend the income of all the stakeholders, preserve the dignity of the workers and promote the increase in range.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u21	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support sub-amendment No. 2725.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u22	I am, of course, making my own the arguments of our colleague Dominique Potier. The spiral in which price construction has taken place in recent years has led, as we know, to a weakening of farmers' remuneration. It has also led the consumer, in a way, to lose many of its benchmarks on the right price of a product. This infernal spiral led to the price war that we know, instrumentalized and carried with energy by the large distribution, and led to the deterioration of the quality of the products sold. Our discussions have shown that there is a need to ensure that this is not exacerbated by the opening up to competition and the ongoing development of international treaties. As we see, our fellow citizens, especially the younger generations, are committed to traceability and product quality. There is therefore a space to put these principles back on the agenda and to ensure to the consumer that, when buying a quality product, it is remunerative for the farmer who produced it. We can see how much consumers need, at the moment – which is favourable for our territories – to put a face on the producer, to humanise, in a way, the purchase of a product. It is also a consubstantial element in building the relationship of trust that must be restored between the consumer and the producer. This amendment is part of this approach. We have given a great deal of thought in committee to how we could envisage labelling attesting that the product is socially responsible, in any case that it is likely to bring a remunerative price to the producer. This amendment allows for this. By the sub-amendment, we propose that, when the whole chain agrees on payment deadlines, the conditions for the distribution of value, the environmental, health and social conditions of production, we should show the citizen consumer the efforts made to make him aware that all work deserves pay and that any quality justifies a price. All this is likely to trigger a positive dynamic in the construction of prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u23	On Amendment No 2468 and Subamendment No 2725, I have a request from the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u24	During the hearings, I met several distributors and industrialists who have presented me with contracts that satisfy your request, namely tripartite or multi-bipartite contracts. Although they already exist, I am in favour of encouraging them and bringing this political message within the framework of the law. Indeed, these multi-party contracts are often virtuous and allow for better remuneration for producers. It is also the meaning of the opinion of the Autorité de la concurrence, which has been referred to this question. On the other hand – and it is not because it comes from Mr Jumel – I am against the sub-amendment, because I do not see the usefulness of public intervention in this area. The committee had delivered an unfavorable opinion on the amendment, but I am personally in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u25	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u26	In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we had a debate on how to raise the value of food production and ensure that the territories draw our production upwards. Work and reflection have come their way. However, the definition of a territorial convention only makes sense if it allows legal security. All economic actors must therefore take advantage of all the tools available to them. On this amendment, the Government relies on the wisdom of the Assembly, knowing that it will be necessary to rework the system to secure things and not to create too many constraints. On the other hand, I express an unfavourable opinion on Mr Jumel's sub-amendment. Indeed, creating public labelling would lead to an overly restrictive system. Individual private initiatives must be allowed to develop in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u27	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u28	I would like to underline the fundamental challenge of these multi-annual tripartite agreements linking producers, processors and distributors. We know that there is today an urgent need to accompany the sectors in their structuring, in order to achieve a better organisation. These tripartite conventions are one of the tools to achieve this. When I was Minister Delegate for Agri-Food, I put them very strongly in the sector contract that we signed at the time. In section 96 of the Sapin 2 Act, we affirmed the possibility of concluding agreements between the three categories of actors. Let us look at what is happening in other countries of the European Union. In Germany, Italy or Spain, when joint efforts are made between distributors, processors and producers, the sectors are standing up, they are able to withstand all the challenges of the markets, whether domestic or external. For French agriculture, it is really an efficiency tool. We must now move on to a new stage, as our amendment would allow. We ask that this structure also be built on a territorial scale, through multi-year tripartite agreements based on local issues. We have all laid the territorial anchor during the general states of food. I appreciate this morning – on behalf of the whole group – the openness shown by the majority and the Government, which will really allow us to move forward. In my department, I have carried this idea of multi-annual tripartite agreements in public workshops, which has been echoed by extremely different actors, including, of course, professionals. They told me that we should ensure that these agreements – I support the Minister's comments – include all the clauses on legal renegotiation, "review", so that the multi-year dimension also leaves room for flexibility. It is not a question of compulsion, but of creating new opportunities. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u29	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u30	The first step of the Government is in the right direction and supports the motivations of the authors of this amendment. I regret, however, that we have not been able to bring this progress to an end. The aim of the amendment is to promote the moralisation of relations between producers, distributors and processors throughout the production chain. This mechanism should be valued by entrusting the public authority with the task of affixing its seal: this is the meaning of the sub-amendment which aims to introduce a labelling experiment. However, it does not seem to have to be adopted. I tabled an amendment, on behalf of my group, which will be discussed a little later, with the aim of introducing an experiment on labelling, which would enhance this type of behaviour. This would be a first step towards the implementation of the labelling. I therefore hope that the consensus on this amendment will continue in the future. The experiment that will be proposed would be intended to inform the consumer and would be such as to bring down all prejudices, all the delusions that one hears about the behaviour of producers. They are now committed to a responsible approach and are, for the most part, attentive to environmental issues. They also need to be paid exactly. That's what this is about. The strength of the law is also, sometimes, able to reverse patterns of thought to trigger positive dynamics.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u31	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u32	I find it surprising that such initiatives must be included in the law, which can already be implemented, but it is true that sometimes the law must express symbols so that some can take advantage of certain possibilities. I therefore call on the actors to take advantage of the possibility offered to them to conclude territorial agricultural contracts, which are a very good idea. It is a way of connecting farmers to their territory and providing them with income. The MODEM Group is therefore in favour of Mr Potier's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u34	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u35	Thank you once again to the rapporteur and the minister for allowing the structuring of a majority around ideas which had also formed in the General Food States – EGA – and in this House since yesterday. We are moving towards consensus. Then there will be an appointment in the Senate. If you decide to reject Sébastien Jumel's excellent sub-amendment, this deadline may be an opportunity to deepen the matter. Is it the mediator, the interprofessional who has to certify this agreement? There may be an intermediate way between public labelling and the possibility of doing so without saying it and without guarantee. This debate, dear Gilles Le Gendre, will join the debate on the draft law on the action plan for business growth and transformation – PACTE. Do the social economy and corporate social responsibility – CSR – fall solely within the logic of the private sector or do they need to be certified and labeled by the public authorities? The drivers of change in our country are not the private or the public, but the alliance of both. Organic farming was created by activists, but its growth was allowed by the public and European label; official signs of identification of quality and origin – SIQO – are guaranteed by an inter-occupation recognised by public authorities; Fair trade is the subject of a label, which is not discussed today, and has joined the consumer society. The tripartite contract is the contract for the fair price paid for the dignity of each worker in the chain, whether he is a milk processor, a cheese processor, a dairy worker, or working in the slaughterhouse or on the farm. If it did not receive a public anointing, recognition and label, it could become the instrument of a demonstration vitiated by the operators. I would prefer the public authorities to say in a clear and transparent way that all operators have signed a contract for social justice and environmental and health upscaling, rather than letting private power twist the arm to a particular producer to force him to say that he has been well paid, when that would not be the case. I thank you for this recognition in the law, but we will ensure that our honourable senators resume the debate with you, minister, so that we can deepen this issue and push its logic to the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u36	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 2725.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u37	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2468.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u38	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 98, 985, 1602 and 1664. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u39	The aim is to ensure that subsidies received by farm equipment co-operatives – CUMA – can be entered in the profit and loss account up to 50% of their amount, the balance being entered in the special unavailable reserves account. These grants directly integrate own funds, through this reserve, which has allowed them to be consolidated, but this measure has become, over time and in view of the changing economic context and the professionalisation of the CUMAs, a barrier to the economic performance of this cooperative tool, the interest of which is recognised by all. This change in the allocation of subsidies would bring efficiency to public aid, without any impact on the state budget, which is important in the current period.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u40	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 985.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u41	Mr Potier said that the concept of cooperation was not born in Great Britain; She was born in Brittany, in the agricultural world and in a political sensitivity that is not hers and that is much closer to ours. This cooperative sensitivity has flourished in a number of ways, in particular through CUMA. Agricultural work enterprises and CUMA exist and play their role, which is very good. The amendment, which Mr Descoeur has perfectly explained, aims to make it possible to achieve the end of the CUMA logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u42	I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 1602.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u43	Our identical amendments are important because, at present, the level of subsidy for MUCA tends to decline, particularly as a result of the Act of 7 August 2015 on the new territorial organization of the Republic, known as the NOTRe Act, and the decrease in the capacity of departmental councils to intervene for this type of grouping. This, of course, has economic consequences for their balance. Since our proposal does not involve any costs, there is no justification for its rejection. This is an adjustment, which will allow the CUMA to reduce the burden they have on its members. The system is capped at 50% – you see the wisdom behind the drafting of this amendment. You are aware of the social effects of CUMA's creations throughout the country, so that farmers, who gather a great deal together, look at us and look forward to the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u44	I call Mr Falorni to support Amendment No. 1664.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u45	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u46	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u47	Rule 8a was introduced by an amendment by the rapporteur-general, Mr Joël Giraud. These amendments are not applicable, since the article refers to all cooperatives, and this wording therefore includes CUMAs. The article amends the second paragraph of Article L. 523-7 of the Rural and Maritime Code, which concerns all cooperatives, including those for the use of agricultural equipment. The current wording of Article 8a satisfies these amendments, which I would therefore ask you to withdraw. If you kept them, the opinion would be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u48	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u49	Thanks to our work in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the rapporteur-general's amendment, the provision contained in these amendments is already in the text. So we agree with what you're saying. I fully share your views on the role of CUMAs in the territories. In each canton's capital, groups have been formed over the years to pool materials, research and agronomic experiments. We must support the CUMAs, which represent employment and which make it possible to overcome, in local communities, the lack of companies or municipal staff capable of carrying out certain works. I hope that, during the discussion on the next common agricultural policy, we will be able to integrate CUMAs and mutualised investments into CAP financing. This would be a good sign given to these groupings, which are crippling all our territories. In western France, there are many.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u50	Not just in the West!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u51	Indeed, but this part of our country is overrepresented in the CUMA mapping.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u52	It's normal, they were born in Brittany!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u53	I am in the process of making sure, Mr Le Fur, that cooperation is not born in the Norman part of the Couesnon bed, which would allow us to say that it was born in Normandy, but it is another debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u54	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u55	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u56	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u57	I'm doing the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u58	Mr Le Fur, are you withdrawing your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u59	Yes, as a sign of our goodwill, which manifests itself once again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u60	Mr Falorni, are you doing the same?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u62	Mr Bruno Duvergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u63	It is excellent to have included CUMA in the law. Indeed, a farmer who was not part of a CUMA had the benefit of the subsidy, but not the one who was a member of it, because he had no depreciation on the equipment. Article 8a therefore rebalances the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u64	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 9. Mr Jean-Philippe Ardouin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u65	Article 9 of the bill is a response to the guidelines expressed by the President of the Republic during his speech of 11 October in Rungis and also follows the general states of food, many of which we participated in last autumn. It was essential to review the threshold for resale at a loss; The increase of 10% is, above all, tantamount to giving more value to agricultural production. In addition, it was important to better frame promotions, not only to combat food waste, but also to restore a certain economic balance in food. Thus, the framework for promotions and the increase in the loss resale threshold will allow value to be recreated in the agri-food chain. These measures will also contribute to the overall balance of negotiations for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises. These advances reflect the majority's commitment to agriculture. Today, we must stop the destruction of value and ensure a better distribution among the various actors. The Government will have two years to experiment with these producer- and consumer-friendly measures to ensure better remuneration for producers and to offer a renewed and adapted offer for producers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u66	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u67	The same causes produce the same effects, and since most of this section is referred to the order procedure, we have little to put ourselves in the fork. That is a shame, because we are at the heart of the issue: to put an end to the commercial practices of large distribution which, as we have said on several occasions, makes the rain and the good weather, which imposes its rules of the game on producers and on a large part of the processing companies, which are small structures. What are these rules of the game? The use of any means to obtain the maximum profit from the marketing of the products, which come from the land. This means selling, selling and selling, regardless of the social cost to agriculture and craft SMEs, who are poorly paid and cannot afford to impose a balance of power. That is the subject that has been at the heart of our discussion since the beginning of the debate. The buyer says to the producer or SME: "If you want to sell and reach the consumer, you have to obey our rules. If I sell at a loss, you lower your prices, even to an abusively low level. And if you're not happy, you're out! " This is the current commercial reality in the food chain, a barely increased reality, barely exaggerated on my part. The market structure is funnel-shaped: 470,000 producers and 18,000 processing companies for 4 distribution purchasing plants at the end of the chain. It's a bit like in the metro during rush hours: the opening of the gates of the train is two meters long, the passengers' queue five meters long by four meters wide and the seats inside are rare. As soon as the row opens its doors, everyone rushes, but in the end there is no room for everyone. Of course, in both cases – the metro on the one hand, the trade negotiations between large distributors, producers and intermediaries on the other – the consequences are not the same. In the first case, you can take the next metro; On the other hand, large areas do not escape because they account for more than two thirds of the market for food products. So what should we do? Raising the threshold for lost resale of foodstuffs sold to the consumer – as you seem to suggest, minister – by 10% does not exhaust the debate. We would have liked to have addressed, for example, the practice of unfairly low prices and its prohibition. Everyone understood well, given Mr. Leclerc's media reaction to the plan to raise the threshold of resale at a loss – up to the sending of highly-argued notes to each of us – that there was a touch on what might most upset the freedom of the great dominating groups to enjoy their dominant position without hindrance. But here, minister: Again, on an important point of the bill, you have decided to use the ordinances, that is to say, to subtract that content from democratic debate and our ability to enrich the text. It is a hindrance, as well as a missed opportunity, to reverse the state of mind of the General Food States. I hope at least that you will propose to us – a little like you did for the previous article – a method of working in committee that will allow us to deepen the provisions of the text and ultimately ensure – even if this is not completely satisfactory – that Parliament does not feel divested of its prerogatives on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u68	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u69	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, Mr.Rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I consider clause 9 to be one of the most important parts of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u70	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u71	So we have to take the time to get to the bottom of things. I regret, like Mr Jumel, that the details of this important article are referred to orders. Apart from some general principles, we don't have the key. The article consists of two parts: one relating to the framework of commercial promotions and the other relating to the raising of the threshold of resale at a loss. With regard to promotions, I have no objection and agree with your objective, Minister. These have become excessively commonplace, and this has allowed consumers to achieve an equivalence between the price of the promotions and the average price, as we have seen in the case of pigmeat. On this point, I have no doubt that you will improve the supervision of promotions and trust you. The fundamental issue is raising the threshold for resale at a loss. What is the positive law in force? Currently, when a trader buys at a price of 100, he cannot sell at less than 100. As a result, it actually sells at a loss, as it has logistics costs, losses and costs of this kind. It is therefore not illogical to envisage an increase in the resale threshold from 100 to 110. But what will be the consequences? It should be noted that this increase will cover all food products, not only those sold by our farmers and agri-food manufacturers, but also products such as coffee, beverages or sodas. Since food products account for more than 50% of retail sales, by raising the resale threshold at a loss, you are actually increasing the margin of large distribution, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u72	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u73	Mr Jumel, you announced earlier the increase in the profits of large distribution, but in this case the margin will increase, the profits will also increase, and very significantly. We are organizing the increase in the profits of large distribution. It is customary in this chamber to hit him, but in this case we are increasing his margins, that is to say his profits of tomorrow, which is still a little surprising. Then why take such a step? You are doing this, minister, in keeping with a certain logic, which I do not dispute but whose outcome seems uncertain to me. You explain to us that by increasing the margins of large-scale distribution on products such as coffee or Coca-Cola, it is given the opportunity to be more flexible on the purchase of traditional food products such as beef or swine. It's a bet. The large distribution is more flexible, however, I doubt it. Admit that the device works: a product like pork ribs, which it buys at 100 and sometimes sells at 100 today, it will have to sell at 110 tomorrow. And since its margins will be even higher, perhaps it will buy at 110 and sell at 120, which will be good for our farmers. But in fact the beneficiary will be the industrialist and not the farmer, who sells very little to the large distribution directly. However, the advantage granted to the peasant, which is very uncertain, must be passed on to the industrialist providing large distribution. You register, Minister, in a logic of positive derivative effects – or runoff, to take up a term you used earlier. For my part, I am skeptical, because nothing will prevent the industrialist from keeping that margin. On the other hand, we need to be clear on one point: who are the winners and losers, in financial terms, of the scheme? The winner – we saw it well – is the big distribution, whose margins – so the profits – will increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u74	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u75	It's in the text! This is a data. Who will pay? Let's not fool ourselves: at some point, if the device works, the payer is the consumer. Some estimate the cost of the measure to the consumer at EUR 5 billion. I don't know what's going on, but I'm sure he'll pay. Mr. Minister, we'll have to take over. It should not be said or allowed to say, if consumer prices rise, that it is the farmers' fault. It will have to be made very clear, if consumer prices increase, that this is the fault of the Travert orders. At some point, you have to take on what you propose! In fact, if the scheme works, consumer prices will rise. You can't deny it. This impact on purchasing power – I specify the timetable – will occur, ladies and gentlemen, along with other negative impacts on purchasing power, in particular that of source levying. All this must happen – logically – in 2019. We need to be clear: there will be a negative impact on purchasing power and you will have to assume it, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u76	He's absolutely right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u77	In addition, I agree with the assumption that the scheme works: then the price increase for the consumer will have a positive impact on the industrial and the peasant. Why not, but what guarantee do we have that it will work? Currently, the large area buys from the industrial at 100 and can sell at 100. Tomorrow, she'll be able to buy 100 and sell 110. But why wouldn't she say, "I keep my selling price at 100 and I demand from my supplier that it provide me with 90, i.e. that it lowers its selling price so that I can keep my purchase price"? It is clear that there will be a commercial argument for part of the large distribution. So, minister, this case is a bit of an atomic bomb. We don't know what it's going to lead to. I do not dispute that you are of good will, I am simply saying that such a measure is very formidable. In any case, it is you and you alone who will bear the responsibility, as long as you proceed by order. It is not us, for we have not deliberated on this matter; We will simply have taken note of the fact that you will draft an order of which we do not know the content. In any case, we are sure of one thing: the margins of large distribution will increase and we do not know what will result for the consumer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u78	It's a risk to run!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u79	That the margins of large-scale distribution increase is not a risk, it is included in the text, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u80	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u81	What will result for the consumer? More or less €5 billion in purchasing power, perhaps not; but a decline in purchasing power without a doubt. As for what will happen to the industrialist and the farmer, we do not know. Be careful, Minister! I invite you to the utmost caution and vigilance on the subject of the resale threshold at a loss.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u82	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u83	I fully subscribe to the analysis and demonstration that Marc Le Fur has just presented. There is indeed a risk. Article 9 deals with two subjects. With regard to the loss resale threshold, its creation was initially intended for small business. Seeing large distribution settles, expands and exercises control over commercial relations, the legislator created it through several successive laws. In 1996, the Galland Act was passed, and in 2008 the Economic Modernization Act was intended to facilitate competition with a view to contributing to lower prices. But the large distribution has used permanent techniques and adaptations: we experienced the drop in prices by the volumes when it was installed, then the payment deadlines and the back margins – we knew everything! Indeed, I fear – and I fear, minister – that the 10% increase in the loss resale threshold will increase the margins of the large distribution sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u85	In the context of the trade negotiations upstream of the chain, with the industrialists and farmers – we discussed them the day before yesterday and again yesterday – if we do not have solid, reliable, transparent, public and indisputable indicators, then the big distribution will still find the means, in cascade, to make its own, so to speak, and to reduce its relationship with the consumer to maintaining low prices. In reality, the philosophy of mass distribution is to hold this speech to our fellow citizens: "You know, food is not worth much; As you are not rich, I will help you to feed yourself cheaply." This is the philosophy of big distribution for fifty years. We find it in the context of the other subject dealt with in Article 9, the famous framework of promotions. You're right, minister, we have to work on it. The Sapin 2 law has begun to act on this issue, in particular by limiting promotions on fresh products such as meat and fruit and vegetables to 30 per cent. There is a real subject here. Through promotions to everything goes, the large distribution has trivialised, denatured, frelated and even poisoned the relationship between the consumer, on the one hand, and food, nutrition and foodstuffs, on the other. She suggested that a quality beef piece, quality fruit or quality dairy product have the same meaning as a suit, telephone subscription or CD. It is clear that the consumer's relationship to nutrition and food, in fifty years, has changed at all. One of the challenges of Title II of the bill will be not only to restore a real relationship between the consumer, the food products that are placed on the market and their producers, but also to address the consumer's relationship to nutrition and to carry out work on the education of our children. There's work to do! In my view, article 9 is decisive. It is at the heart of the debate, since it is a matter of rebalancing trade relations not only between the various players and links in the chain, but also between large-scale distribution and the consumer. Between 80% and 90% of the food is sold in the supermarket. It must therefore be supervised and its practices monitored as accurately as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u87	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u88	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u89	Article 9 deals with the raising of the threshold for the sale of foodstuffs at a loss and the supervision of promotions on the same foodstuffs. With regard to the loss resale threshold, its increase is a strong measure taken by the General Food States, which will help to rebalance trade relations by creating value in the agri-food chain and should give some oxygen to the sector's TPEs through improved product equalization. As for the supervision of promotions, it seems necessary to legislate in order to put an end to the inflationary spiral which particularly characterizes the food sector. The average rebate rate has increased from 18 per cent to 34 per cent in eight years. This race at least so-called affects our farmers, to the point of stifling them. It is therefore necessary to regulate promotions, both in terms of value and volume, in order to recover the fair price of agricultural products and thus to pay justly the work of our farmers. These two measures are indispensable and I support this article without hesitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u90	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u91	Article 9 governs promotions and raises the resale threshold to a loss of 10 %. We share the idea that we must stop selling at any price, because when the big distribution tightens the belt, the farmer shouts famine. With the rise of large-scale distribution, a commercial war began, a race for the stallion. This article has the merit of blocking this deflationary slope. The movement towards the so-called least concerns society as a whole: whether it is public procurement, the quality of buildings, all public choices today, it is less and less the quality that counts, and more and more the price. There is thus a general race towards a society where quality will be reserved for an elite. We see it in the United States, where masses of consumers will buy several kilos of meat, rice... at very low prices, when the country's elite buys extremely expensive, in very large commercial areas, quality organic products. It is not this company that we want: we are convinced that everyone must enjoy quality products. Therefore, it is necessary to sell at fair prices and correct the evolution of large distribution towards an increasingly poor valuation of the value of the products, especially under the influence of promotions. When the price of a product is poorly evaluated, the value of the work behind it is not respected. Our society must revalue work, as opposed to capital that sometimes sleeps and benefits. It must also improve quality. [[Smile]] Nevertheless, I share the objections raised by Marc Le Fur. Minister, remember an excellent step – taken by a right-wing government, something that won't tell anyone under the age of ten, but that once existed. I am thinking of the reduction of VAT for the restaurateurs. What happened then?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u92	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u93	Well, yeah, nothing! The Government had promised a fall in prices for consumers, but if some restorers played the game, that was not the case for all; Most of the value added generated by this VAT reduction was captured before reaching the consumer. It's the same thing that threatens you here, as Marc Le Fur has shown!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u94	However, it was a very good measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u95	These famous 10% could be captured by large distribution, or perhaps by the purchasing power plant or the industrialist, but never stream to farmers. There is also a time bomb for the purchasing power of the French: your measure will increase the prices of food. In addition, your text lacks an instrument to protect the farmer. The deflationist race must not be done backwards; large-scale distribution must not twist its arms to its interlocutors in order to continue to act as it does today, reducing farmers' incomes. There is therefore a lack of rigidity, which would not be the multiplier coefficient as we envisaged, but which would establish a direct link between the farmer's income and the maximum price at which large distribution would be allowed to sell. The deflation of prices should not lead to deflation of agricultural incomes! Do not forget, Minister, that farmers are consumers like others. If at the end of the process, food prices rise and farmers' incomes fall because the big distribution twisted their arm, then you will have what is commonly called a double Kiss Cool effect: for them, the time bomb will have considerable effects, which could represent 10 to 15 per cent of their income. This is obviously the opposite of what we want. This risk was very well exposed by Marc Le Fur. I would like us to reflect collectively on the best way to prevent the process from going backwards, and that this text produces the diametrically opposite effect of that sought!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u96	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u97	This article is very important, everyone agrees. For my part, I would like to stress the supervision of promotions: it is a very strong measure to protect the consumer, of course, but also the producer. I suppose it was inspired by the Nutella case, but it will matter to everyone. However, the specificities of fruit and vegetables should not be forgotten. In particular, the special case of unpacking sales needs to be addressed: beyond the problem of the price displayed, which is quite real, attention must be paid to the lack of respect for hygiene rules – sometimes with products on the ground – and to the lack of traceability – with insufficient or misleading labelling. We see this every day; No one today can control these unpacking sales. Fruit and vegetable producers expect a lot from this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u98	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u99	Raising the threshold for resale at a loss and framing promotions are commendable objectives: this can reduce the pressure on producers from large and medium-sized areas. We all have at the forefront of last autumn's images where we saw consumers rushing on pots of spread paste – which are not produced in France, but it doesn't matter. I would like to ask you three questions, Minister. First of all, by raising the threshold of resale at a loss, as my colleagues have explained very well, you touch on a sensitive point: the purchasing power of the French. Since the beginning of the year, growth in France has improved; But there is a flaw: household consumption. We talked about it here very little ago when we asked for the defiance of overtime in order to restore purchasing power to the French to enable them to contribute to growth. However, INSEE's analysis, at the beginning of 2018, is that once again household consumption is declining. Have you assessed, Minister, the overall cost to the consumer of raising the threshold for resale at a loss? Secondly, how will these provisions apply to large and medium-sized areas that buy certain products – coffee or cocoa, for example – abroad, which will therefore not be constrained by these contracting rules in particular? They will be able to greatly increase their margins. Finally, as regards the supervision of promotions, I am in favour of it, but it nevertheless presents a risk: that of the catch-up effects on other goods of primary necessity or current consumption, which can be produced in France and which are already under heavy pressure. I am thinking, for example, of leather goods or perfume. Over the past five years, food prices in trading boxes have declined by 5% overall; But for non-food consumer goods, the decline in purchasing prices is rather 15%. It is therefore possible to imagine that large-scale distribution is catching up with its losses on food products. These measures therefore affect not only purchasing power, which is one of the levers of growth, but also the industries that produce these goods in France. What framework, Minister, are you planning, not to weaken one of the levers of growth?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u100	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u101	For the smooth running of our debates, minister, could you please tell me how the rest of the discussion will be organized? Very concretely, should I mobilize my colleagues – especially those from the provinces – to be present tomorrow and the day after? In view of the smooth running of our work, I have the feeling that it is not necessary to sit this weekend. We can adapt, but it is now that we have to anticipate if there will be sessions on Saturday and Sunday.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u102	I have taken note of your request, Mr Jacob, and I propose that you take stock at the end of this morning's sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u103	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u104	I see that Michel-Édouard Leclerc has been able to find excellent lawyers in this Chamber, and that Mr Le Fur has registered for the bar. I would just like to recall one example. Today, it takes eighteen smartphones to buy a ton of Nutella; In that ton, there's 70% sugar. Yet it takes three tons of sugar to buy a smartphone. Large distribution allows for 70% discount on Nutella, while it sells agricultural products at more than 250% of the cost. So, yes, this article, in particular the increase of the threshold of resale at a loss, will protect our farmers; No, the value is not distributed as it should. As far as margins are concerned, Mr Le Fur, the big distribution, they are companies like the others: his aim is to earn money and to create an operating margin. Today, it will increase its margins on some products, but its goal is to be the cheapest, so that the average basket is accessible. So it will lower its margins on agricultural products. The cost indicator we have put in place will protect our farmers and allow the price to be the right one. In my view, the proposed measures are the perfect mechanism for the protection of our farmers and for a safe, healthy, sustainable and especially accessible diet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u105	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u106	I share the observations of Marc Le Fur, Thierry Benoit and Julien Aubert. The reasoning is correct and their questions are well asked. And since their reasoning is correct, I think they will vote for this text. Where are we today? In supermarkets, consumers buy cheap rather low-end products, products that make the obesity curve follow the poverty curve. Supermarkets sell two types of products: those for the poor and those for the rich. This text – I assume it – is a way of saying to consumers: "You're going to pay more, but we're going to stop poisoning you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u107	Good nutrition has a price!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u108	... we will stop selling a sausage to which we added sugar to hold water that is sold to you at the price of meat." It is necessary to explain in an educational way to the French that they will pay more, but that they will no longer eat low quality products. The goal is that everyone has the right to the same food. What's going on in supermarkets today? It's very simple: products like Nutella or Coca-Cola are sold at a loss because the big distribution has nothing to do with not making money on these products that are used to gain market share. People come to the supermarket and kick each other to buy Nutella. Whatever, the supermarket is gaining market share – Intermarché has gained almost 1% market share with its January operation. Today it is possible to sell products that make large volumes such as Nutella at a loss, but it is necessary to compensate, and it is the small productions that make the costs. Your reasoning is right, Mr. Le Fur. Yes, the minister makes a bet. He believes that in the face of consumer demand for quality, supermarkets will be forced to favour quality products, paying smaller producers better and having margin on the threshold of resale at a loss. It is true that it is a bet – you are right, Mr Le Fur – nothing is guaranteed in advance. As we often say, in Normandy or at Mr Benoît's, it is at the end of the fair that we will count the bouses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u109	Excellent argumentation! Bravo! There are a few good centrists left in this house!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u110	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u111	My only certainty concerns the great difficulties facing our farmers. This law is characterized by modesty, it does not show any certainty as to the results; It offers tools, it allows to make bets – the SRP is part of it. Raising the threshold will not solve all the problems, it may not run to the farmer. It's a bet first. In return, Minister, we will need follow-up. I hear the questions about inflationary risk, but, Mr. Le Fur, today, the big distribution doesn't sell everything with a zero margin. In the example you took, we bought 100, we sold 100. With the rise of the RPS, we should buy 100 and sell 110. For several years, trade negotiations have started at minus two or minus three. We shouldn't have to buy 90 in three years and sell 99. We must be vigilant on this point. On promotions, volume and price, it will also be necessary to specify whether they are unique products, product lines, including brand distributors. The perimeter will be difficult to define. The RPS is an interesting tool, one must try it while being vigilant about its implementation and ensuring its follow-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u112	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u113	I would like to warn us collectively against the illusions that we risk creating around Article 9. Of course, there are positive aspects to this article. We approve the supervision of promotions. The challenge is to restore its value to food and to be even more effective in the fight against food waste. We know how disorganized promotions can increase waste. It is the raising of the RPS that raises the question. This provision is presented as the solution. It's a magical thought: the producer is told, "Don't worry, we're going to save your income." But there's no guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u115	On the other hand, the impact assessment foresees an effect on the price for consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u116	That's the risk!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u117	I hear what Mr Ramos said about the need to restore value to food and, consequently, to take on the price increase. However, care must be taken to ensure that the increase is sustainable for the purchasing power of families. But above all, the effect on producers' income is far from guaranteed. Uncertainty and difficulty are there.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u119	Mr. Turquois mentioned a bet. It's a hell of a bet! You risk sowing illusions and reaping very painful revivals for farmers. To really support the income of producers, we must work on the upscaling and regulation of markets at European level – you can do whatever you want at national level, have the most beautiful mechanics on paper, without regulating production at European Union level, you will achieve nothing. With these prescriptions, we advance blindly, without warranty for the producer and without assurance of a beneficial effect for the entire production.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u121	Mr Michel Delpon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u122	Section 9 is important because it is intended to regulate agri-food trade. But let us be careful, because who says supervision, says limitation. The increase in the loss resale threshold is a good intention, but will result in an increase in the margin of the purchasing power plants. An equalization formula must be found so that SMEs and producers can benefit from it. This measure will have a beneficial effect on the first prices, I am sure, but the margin will be made on the major brands. It's about runoff. With regard to promotions, I have worked for forty years with purchasing centres and I have always earned my life on promotions – you also need to know how to calculate its cost prices. When limits are set, activity and turnover are restricted. I take the example of the dependency threshold: this threshold has been established in good faith, but it sometimes hinders the activity of a company that works well with a loyal purchasing centre. I've been working with the Auchan power plant for years. I was above the dependency threshold, but what's the problem when it works? Care must be taken to limit promotions because, at times, promotions can also make a living. The framework must not have the effect of restricting agri-food activity in France, nor that of producers and producer groups – few isolated producers work directly with purchasing centres; producers' groups, trading companies or agri-food companies are usually processors at the same time. Distributor brands are not included in this bill. Let us be careful because the purchasing centres are very strong, and well advised by their lawyers. Aren't they going to lean back on the distributor brands to maintain their margins? In some trades, these brands can account for 30-40% of the activity, sometimes much more. Today, they play a crucial role in the distribution system. There is therefore a need to take some precautions and apply equalization in order to genuinely favour the basic producer and the agri-food trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u123	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u124	Attention is focused on the RPS, but this article has two elements, two solutions from the General Food States. In France, the price war kills 1 billion euros of value per year. It is EUR 1 billion that is being taken from farmers – we share this fact. I would like to remind you, if it is necessary to do so, as coordinator of the General Food States, that the increase in the RPS and the supervision of promotions correspond to a demand, not only of agricultural unions, but also of certain distributors – certainly not all, but some. Mr. Ramos has demonstrated that increasing the RPS can provide a response to our farmers by rebalancing the distribution of value between processed products that are call products and products that come directly from our producers. It is often said that the RPS alone cannot solve the difficulties faced by farmers and put an end to the price war. Indeed, the RPS cannot do this on its own. But the general states and the roadmap presented by the minister – that is their interest – are based on the idea that the sum of several measures will transform our agriculture and rebalance the distribution of value. The RPS cannot be opposed to other measures. It is the RPS coupled with the other measures that together will allow the rebalancing. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Article 9 aims to experiment with these measures for two years. Since our role is also to assess the law, it will be up to us to monitor the implementation of such measures within the next two years and to put them definitively in the law at the end of that time, or by modifying them, improving them, enriching them, as parliamentary work does.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u125	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u126	Mr Besson-Moreau, you are committing a flagrant injustice by making us the trial of intention to be the voice carriers of I do not know what great boss of the GMS – large and medium surfaces. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In section 9, you decide to legislate by order. We could have made the choice of ease by letting it slip: we would have let you do it, without opening the debate, and then we could have come to say that you did wrong. On the contrary, we have the courage to address complicated issues with serenity and sincerity. The argument you have developed is therefore not admissible. The increase in the RPS creates a heavy tension between the desire to increase the remuneration of producers and the risk of decreasing the purchasing power of consumers. We are aware of that. There is also a heavy tension between the desire to strengthen the French market for French producers and the risk of foreign producers arriving who would not be subject to the same rules. We accept it and we want to debate it. There are also risks in the framework of promotions, in particular the risk that certain productions may be damaged by too strict a framework because they need promotion at certain times to sell stocks and flows. The other risk is that we will not go far enough in framing promotions, which are often carried out in a very unfair manner, because we will not have the legal tools to do so properly. So, please, if we want the debate on this difficult subject to go well, let us put aside these invectives, which are of no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u128	We fully understand the Government's intention to guide a number of things that deserve to be addressed, but there are still some issues that need to be raised, especially since these are ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u130	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u131	[["Ah! » on various benches]] We come to the "Nutella article," and perhaps we're going to live a rather original moment: I'm being accused of being a lawyer for Michel-Édouard Leclerc.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u132	Nutella, it was Intermarket, not Leclerc!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u133	The supervision of promotions, why not! Raising the resale threshold at a loss, why not! But I do not see the link with raising farmers' income levels. Or this bond is so tenuous, so distant, that nothing will be left at the finish. What bet – uncertain, muddy, completely fuzzy in my opinion – are we doing here? That the money raised by preventing promotions on the Nutella, which will raise the price, will go to the farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u134	Nutella, that's not the right example! Why don't you take the cheese?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u135	But there are so many actors between the big distribution and the producer! Thinking that there will be an effect of communicating vases between these two ends of the chain is an illusion, and you sell this illusion to farmers. For me, it can't work that way. Where will the money go? The most likely is that it will strengthen the margins of large distribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u136	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u137	The main beneficiary of the competitiveness and employment tax credit was the large distribution, Auchan, Carrefour and Casino, as they did not raise the wages of their cashiers and did not raise the level of remuneration, upstream, of the agri-food industry or peasants. The bet is that the money will be given to the peasants to whom the large distribution buys radishes or cucumbers directly – by the way, they do not constitute the majority of the farmers in our country. To think that large-scale distribution will generously give this money to the agri-food industry and that it will in turn show the same generosity towards the peasants, is a double illusion, a vast fumistry. One may wish to raise the threshold of resale at a loss – I am not against it; We can discuss it. One may wish to supervise promotions – it is undoubtedly desirable. But this has nothing to do with raising farmers' incomes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u138	Let's say it doesn't guarantee it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u139	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Why are we building this mechanics, hoping that the pipes between the large distribution and the producers will communicate automatically? Because we don't have the courage to take real action. I repeat: setting a floor price between the farmer and the agri-food industry would have guaranteed an increase in farmers' incomes. We don't do it and, as a result, we build a vast mechanics, with pipes in every direction. In fact, the bulk of the money that will be recovered from the price risks going into smoke, that is, in my opinion, in dividends, as was the case with the CICE.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u140	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u141	I am a little surprised that Mr Ruffin is giving up when it comes to ensuring that farmers are finally paid at the right price. For our part, we do not want to resign: we want to make progress with this bill. I'll meet you in two years to take stock, Mr. Ruffin.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u142	It's smoke!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u143	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let us try to act and change things, as farmers and all the actors ask us to do. We are putting in place arrangements with Article 9, and we will see in two years who you or we were right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u144	Rendezvous is taken!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u145	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u146	I rise briefly to reply to Mr Orphelin and to supplement François Ruffin's remarks. Yesterday, we proposed a very clear amendment to prohibit the sale at a loss for farmers. This was a real guarantee, contrary to what you promise us, the gas plant that François Ruffin denounces.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u148	It was very simple: prohibit sale at a loss. You didn't.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u149	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u150	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u151	I will try to be factual and pragmatic, and to dissipate the debate. Lost resale and repeated promotions are incompatible with sound and fair competition. They generally do not provide any real benefit to the consumer. Indeed, the alleged losses on certain items are often more than offset by the profit of the large distribution on other items. Article 9 is part of a set of measures. As Célia de Lavergne pointed out, it is not the raising of the threshold of resale at a loss on its own or the framing of promotions on its own, but these two measures articulated with all the others, in particular with the contracting – the cascading contracts taking up the indicators of production costs throughout the chain, from the producer to the distributor – that will allow this famous runoff. And we don't rely on magic! Mr Ruffin and Mr Prud'homme, you again refer to the prices of flooring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u152	I've been talking about selling at a loss!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u153	But setting a floor price is the best way to get a ceiling price, and it's really a gas factory. In addition, the introduction of such mechanisms favours imports at the expense of French production. This has already been done in the past, and it has had precisely this consequence, without in any way solving the problems of French producers. The objective of the increase in the loss resale threshold is to counter the deflationary spiral on agricultural and food products, and to reverse the associated loss of value. The logic of distribution chains is to systematically lower the prices paid to their suppliers. Major food brands are now used as call products, as distributors compensate for losses on these products through gains on agricultural products such as fresh products. In addition, lost sales and promotions degrade the image of food products, in defiance of the work of producers, at a time when consumers as producers share the same concern for fair prices. We do not have any guarantee that the margin will be paid to the producer. This is an experiment, the results of which will have to be measured. Nevertheless, the famous cascade contracts should make it possible to bring the value down to the producer. As for the inflationary effect of raising the threshold of resale at a loss, it lends itself to many debates. According to the impact assessment, the average price increase for products would be between 0.7 and 2 per cent. For its part, the study published by UFC-Que Choosing and Sponsored by Michel-Édouard Leclerc evokes an increase of 10 to 15%, or several billion euros. These numbers are completely aberrant. We understand very well why they were used, but they have nothing to do with reality. I repeat, this is a two-year experiment. Perhaps the device will have to be completed. Some of my interlocutors called for the establishment of a farm modernization fund, financed by levies on capital gains made by both distributors and agri-food industries through the raising of the threshold of resale at a loss and the supervision of promotions. Why not? It's a mechanism to study. We'll be working on it in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u154	Will you have the agreement of Brussels on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u155	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This fund, which would be independent and managed in collaboration with all the players in the sector, could guarantee the famous "redescent of value" that you mentioned, while promoting the upscaling of agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u156	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u157	I rise at this stage of our discussions to explain the method and what we want to do with Article 9, which is indeed very important. I will address three points. Firstly, Mr Jacob, you asked a question earlier about the organisation of our debates over the coming weekend. You have rightly mentioned the case of the many deputies whose constituency is far from Paris. I have relayed your question as to whether we will have to continue working tomorrow, or even Sunday, so that everyone can make his arrangements. Secondly, I know that there is a disagreement on both sides of the House with the very principle of the use of orders. However, as Mrs Célia de Lavergne pointed out very well, these orders were claimed by a number of agricultural organisations in the General Food States and supported by some officials in the large distribution sector. It was important, in my view, to hear this request from the various actors. We wish to work in consultation with parliamentarians during the drafting period in order to table draft ordinances whose content is shared as much as possible. Thirdly, I come back to the substance of what we want to do with the raising of the threshold of resale at a loss and the framing of promotions. As I indicated in the presentation of the text, the aim of these arrangements is to find a compromise, a lasting balance, so that the distribution of value is in the best interests of farmers. What are we trying to do with the 10% increase in the loss resale threshold? We are simply trying to rebalance the margins. What is the current situation? We have all cited examples. We know very well that there are call products in food products, and that, on these call products, large distribution generally has small margins, which it compensates for by the volumes sold. Often, it also produces margins on agricultural products that it has bought at very low prices. But we want to rebalance these margins. We are betting that the margins found in the distribution will not generate additional costs for consumers and that there will be a return to farmers and agri-food industries, particularly the TPEs and SMEs, as the players in the distribution sector in the general food states have committed themselves to doing. Everyone said, with their hands on their hearts, that the price war had lasted too long, that we must restore value to our food products and ensure that agri-food companies are drawn up by an agriculture that promotes excellence. It is within this framework that we are entering. Of course, there have been many noises. Some argued that prices would rise by more than EUR 5 billion. But let us look at the method of calculation used by the associations and the distributor in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u159	To reach this figure of 5 billion, they simply took into account all the food in a store, added 10 % on each price and multiplied it by the duration of the experiment, namely two years. I repeat that this amounts to misleading consumers, since the impact assessment – I am responding to Mr Dive's changeover – foresees a price recovery of the order of 0.7%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u160	What margin is that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u161	However, as we know, consumers sometimes have the ability to pay the products a little more when they know that they are going to pay their farmers and their territories. As a result, we chose to raise the loss resale threshold to 10%. If I wanted to be a tease with some of you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u162	Be it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u163	I'm going to be, but I don't have a name.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u164	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u165	If I wanted to be teasing, I would point out that a number of parliamentarians, sitting on the right of the House, have signed amendments to raise the resale threshold to 25%. At some point, you have to be consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u166	You were a parliamentarian, too, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u167	For our part, we felt that a 10% increase was relevant – the experiment will allow us to verify it – given the cascading contract and the commitments made, notably in the framework of the charter on ethical and responsible procurement, signed on 14 November last. These commitments will have to be fulfilled. Let us go back to what has happened in previous years. The Galland law, some of which mentioned earlier, has led to price inflation, to the appearance of the famous "back margins".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u168	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u169	But the implementation of the Galland Act has been poorly monitored. However, we will ensure that there is effective control over all the measures we propose in this text, in particular the raising of the threshold for resale at a loss. Control is also the duty of Parliament. The President of the Republic has always affirmed this: the role of Parliament is to legislate, but also to monitor the proper implementation of the law. I believe that, too, we have steps of progress that can be interesting. In addition, there will be an evaluation report on what the law has brought. Through order and experimentation, we need to be able to verify – and we will do so with the various actors – that value will come down again in farmers and processors as well as in agri-food companies. As for the supervision of promotions, it is absolutely necessary, since they are now almost permanent. The order will also provide an opportunity to work on their relevance. For example, it is not normal for the pig sector to be permanently promoted, as long as it produces quality. Every year, however, in January, it wishes to decommit itself, after the month of December in which less pigmeat was consumed. Because she has to destock, she has to give rather heavy promotions. To put in place the framework of the promotions we want, we will have to find with the whole of the industry the way to organize the promotion sequences without devaluing the quality of the products,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u171	...because permanent promotion has totally devalued the quality of our productions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u172	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u173	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u174	When we put all at the same level, consumers do not find themselves there anymore and when they eat a product of protected designation of origin or controlled label of origin, manufactured in the rules of art, they do not even distinguish it from a product that does not respect the French quality standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u175	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u176	When consumers can't even make that difference, there is a problem, that we will try to fix it without depressing or degrading their purchasing power. Believe it: the Government is mobilized to carry out the necessary controls and to fulfil the commitments made during the General Food States. These commitments are important and the farmers, who have heard them, will not hesitate, I know, to remind us of the respect for our word. At the end of this discussion on article 9, I repeat the intentions of the Government: raising the threshold of resale at a loss to 10 per cent, framing promotions not only to combat food waste but to restore value to our productions, experimentation over two years, and finally concertation, especially with parliamentarians, to work on the content of the ordinances. Earlier, Mr. Le Fur spoke of the "Travert Orders." In this case, they are rather orders of the Government. However, Mr Le Fur, thank you for putting forward the measures adopted yesterday. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, let us not forget the name and shame goes hand in hand with the name and fame, which tends to value the good experiences and good practices put in place by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u177	I call Mr Sebastien Jumel to support Amendment No. 1756. On Amendment No 1756, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u178	If we ask for a public vote, it is certainly not to enquire the world, but because the discussion that has begun and the arguments that have been developed – which invite us to refrain from a trial of intent – show the need for a substantive debate. There is also a need to measure the margins of risk and even non-operationality of the bill. But many heads reflect better than one. Such important, complex and equally serious decisions must be taken by Parliament, whose role is not merely to assess the consequences of public policies or Government decisions, but to participate in their formulation. I believe that Parliament must make the law, enrich it, amend it. He cannot simply watch the trains pass by, wondering, two years later, whether the law has produced good results and whether the consequences of it are those that were expected. As a matter of principle, and that is why we support the amendment, we reject the idea that we can legislate by ordinance. [[The rapporteur protested]] One of our colleagues proposes that we meet again in two years' time to take stock. It was not you who said that, Mr rapporteur, but the spokesman for the La République Group on the move. That's not reasonable. We know how dramatic certain situations are in our territories. When 17% of farms are weakened or even on the brink of bankruptcy, farmers cannot be told to go back in two years to see if runoff has irrigated the territories. It was this urgency that initially convinced the trade unions of the validity of the use of orders. However, the difference in time between spring and summer is not such that it can still justify this procedure. The Assembly could have had an in-depth, responsible and pragmatic debate. That is why we propose, by this amendment, to delete Article 9, which, on this subject, authorizes the Government to make use of the ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u181	I will not surprise you, Mr Jumel, by issuing an opinion against this deletion amendment. I would like to add a word: I fully agree to explain to consumers that eating does not cost anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u182	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u183	The share of food in the household budget has increased in a few years from 20 per cent to less than 10 per cent. She can't go down below.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u184	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u185	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] The producer's work is not worth anything. Quality production, too. It is necessary to restore their value to things, which the great distribution has destroyed or even aviled. Today, we mix the price of smartphones and the price of food by making a nauseating mix.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u186	It's true, we're confusing everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u187	Producing a quality diet does not cost anything. We must stop this price war that destroys French agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u188	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u189	Unfavorable opinion. I would point out that we must act by order in order not to miss the meeting on 30 November, the day on which the next trade negotiations will begin. Our timetable takes this into account: the bill must be passed quickly if it is to be implemented on that date. I reiterate the Government's strong commitment to submit the draft ordinances to the stakeholders for negotiation, in the continuity of the work carried out in 2017. Finally, I would point out that the deletion of the article would lead to a complete absence of promotion frameworks and a threshold for resale at a loss.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u190	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u191	I apologize to Mr Jumel, but I will not vote for his amendment, because the article contains a measure that suits me – as I said at the outset – the framework of promotions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u192	By way of ordinances!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u193	Porcine production has suffered particularly from repeated, multiple promotions, which are no longer an exception but the norm. A promotion, satisfactory if it is an exception, becomes a problem when it is the norm. I am not disturbed by the Government's ordinances on this rather complicated matter. However, I still wonder about the threshold for resale at a loss, because I do not have all the elements of the file. I know one thing: the effect of increasing the threshold will be to significantly increase the margins of large distribution. This is also the purpose of the process. On the other hand, I do not know what effect the increase in margins will have on agricultural prices. As much as you are, minister, rapporteur, you have used the word "betting".
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u194	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u195	The minister used it. In life, you can take bets. The problem is that the price actually increases for the consumer. Mr Ramos has the merit of assuming this term, which I am grateful for. Part of the Minister's assumption is that the increase in food prices will not be $5 billion, but 0.7%. I would like you to tell us, minister, exactly how much that percentage is and what it relates to. You have more information than I do to find out. On the other hand, I contest the fact that the measure will be a simple experiment. Once the ordinances have been promulgated, it will apply throughout France to all economic sectors, both large and small. It will therefore not be an experiment, even if we can always change all the laws. The measure will apply. It will belong to our objective right. We must therefore assume very clearly that the fact that consumers will pay. I fear that they will be made to understand implicitly that they will pay for the peasants, whereas I do not see any positive consequences for them in the proposed scheme. It is not shown that the increase in margins in the large distribution will result in an increase for the industrialists or a fortiori for the peasants. But the idea is that these will lead to an increase in prices. It is not true: it is your text that will cause this increase. There are far too many uncertainties on this point. Finally, I regret that we have not given ourselves the means to work with real impact studies. It refers to a 0.7% increase in food prices in the retail sector, which is far from neutral for our citizens. We don't take bets with people whose already very modest incomes are going to fall further as a result of the source levy. On these issues, we need to be very careful.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u196	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u197	I thought I had been clear in my first speech, but I repeat: we do not dispute certain objectives of Article 9. We share your mind about coaching promotions. The debate attests, however, to the need to deepen certain points and to clarify them here. I repeat emphatically that the Communist Group will not give up on these issues. We believe that a Parliament is useful and that parliamentarians are meant to make the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u199	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u200	In saying this, I do not express any mistrust of the minister. But everyone has their job: the Government is tabling a bill, drafted with as many actors as possible – in democracy, it is better – and it is up to Parliament to exercise its prerogatives. The amendment does not say anything else. It does not concern the substance of the subject. In view of his argument, Mr. Le Fur should vote for it. The questions he has asked, the precautions he has suggested remind us of the need for a debate in the Chamber, conducted with the precision required by the law, the wisdom of the Assembly and the concern for co-drafting. That is the meaning of our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u201	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u202	Nor will I vote for Mr Jumel's amendment, but I am sensitive to his arguments. Minister, what do we guarantee through this mechanism? In a certain way, the margin for large distribution, which may, if necessary, prevent it from using the rear margin system to raise the margin otherwise, e.g. by requesting an additional pallet. We all know by heart the techniques of large distribution. On the other hand, I'm not sure the runoff will reach the producer. So much the reasoning stands for unprocessed products, such as radish boots or salad, so much it leaves me skeptical about processed products. Let us take the example of pastries, for which the price of the cereal represents about 4% of the total price: how can we ensure that the producer gets out of the margin calculation? We have no way to guarantee it to him. The reasoning applies to dessert creams, and the share of milk. That is why your reasoning leaves me skeptical about these processed products, which yet represent the majority of sales in the diet.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u203	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1756.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u204	At the request of the Minister, the sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u205	The meeting was resumed. I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 86, 170, 259 and 955. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u206	The purpose of this amendment is to reduce the time limit from four to three months for the publication of the order relating to the loss resale threshold and promotional transactions, so that this provision comes into force as soon as possible, knowing that you have already shortened the time limit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u207	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u208	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u209	Amendment No 259 is being defended. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 955.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u210	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u212	As President Roland Lescure recalled yesterday, we accepted a number of amendments in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the text has already been considerably enriched. In particular, we have reduced the time limit from six to four months, but it would be difficult to go further because the Government needs a reasonable time to draft these orders, which are quite technical. The important thing is that they be published as trade negotiations begin in October. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u213	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u214	I would like to take this opportunity to answer a question I was asked earlier about the impact assessment and the risk of price increases. Associations and large distribution had estimated the price effect at EUR 5 billion. According to the study, the impact would be 0.7%, or EUR 870 million per year, representing an increase of EUR 2 per month for each consumer. These are the data we have. Opinion against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u215	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 986, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u216	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u218	This is the amendment that the Minister referred to earlier: therefore, it is an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u219	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u220	Unfavorable. There is no question of raising the threshold for selling agricultural products at a loss from 10% to 25%.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u221	I call Mrs Bareigts to support Amendment No. 2479.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u222	Yesterday evening, during the examination of Article 5, we were able to point out the virtuous process, over a period of forty years, of structuring the sectors in the ultramarine territories, allowing farmers to develop their activities in the framework of local agriculture, with a view both to feeding our citizens properly and to freeing us from the yoke of massive imports. The aim of this amendment is to apply the increase in the loss resale threshold to the overseas departments, which are confronted with a particular phenomenon. These departments receive food products at so-called demise prices: these products, coming not only from Europe but also from all over the world, are indeed released on the markets of the ultramarine territories at prices below the lowest prices on the national territory. Thus, frozen chicken thighs are sold to Reunion 1.89 euro per kilogram after having made 10,000 kilometers! Do you think that such prices allow our farmers to continue their activity? This is neither possible nor acceptable. It's deadly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u223	Mrs. Bareigts is right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u224	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] The Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas, passed unanimously in both the Assembly and the Senate, contains measures to fight against these decommitments. It is in our territories, which are French territories, that such products are sent! That is why, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, in order to combat these products, we would like it to be stated before the national representative that the increase in the threshold for resale at loss is applied overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u225	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u226	Madam Member, we can only share the whole of your argument. However, I will allow the Government to respond to the fact that the provisions relating to the application of this measure overseas fall within the scope of the ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u228	The amendment is not necessary since Article 9 allows, if necessary, to apply the measures it provides for to the overseas departments. On the other hand, the Government was not in favour of the law imposing such a choice. The price effect of the measures provided for in Article 9 could pose problems in the ultramarine departments in terms of purchasing power. We must take into account, as you have pointed out, the very specific context of the cost of living in the overseas countries and territories. The effort to improve the distribution of value may benefit overseas producers irrespective of local application of the measures provided for in Article 9. The impact on the large distribution of the increase in the loss resale threshold allows for a better distribution of the overall value to the benefit of all producers. Of course, the Government will pay attention to this. Moreover, a referral to the Autorité de la concurrence deals with the issue of these decommitment products, which arrive at very low prices in the ultramarine markets, which prevents local production from creating the conditions for both their economic development and the best structuring of the supply which we call for. This referral should provide answers to the problem that you have raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u229	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u230	Mr Minister, I do not understand your hesitation, especially since the rapporteur gives us reason to fight on the subject. Legal provisions exist: for example, the Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas provides that "where foodstuffs identical or similar to those produced and marketed locally are offered to consumers at prices clearly lower than those practised in hexagon, the conclusion of an agreement between the actors of import and distribution, on the one hand, and those of local production and processing, on the other, may be made compulsory by the representative of the State in the territory. It is this provision that must be applied in the ultramarine territories! It is enshrined in the law, which has been unanimously passed, and which must be applied in the territories. It is this fight that we are fighting, while the Autorité de la concurrence, which you referred to, will only issue an opinion. We also passed the Overseas Economic Regulation Act in 2012. This law provides for the creation of an observatory of prices, margins and incomes in all ultramarine territories. We fought a great fight against expensive life in 2009. If nothing has happened in our territories since then, it is because we have put in place tools to combat monopoly situations and all those who abuse them, thereby affecting the purchasing power of the most modest of us. [[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] [[Same movements]] While such arrangements are not currently being applied in our territories, the state services, contrary to what they should be doing, are not arch-bottomed to combat these abusive situations. To vote on this amendment would allow us to have an additional tool in the fight against expensive living. We're not asking for anything else! I do not understand why you hesitate, especially since, far from asking for anything exceptional, we are only asking for the application of the law in our country, in order to protect our producers and to combat excessive prices. Take this step, Minister! This important sign will allow you, too, to contribute to the fight against expensive life and for local production.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u231	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u232	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u233	In line with Mrs Bareigts, I would like to point out that the laws on agriculture all contain articles specific to the overseas sector. This is the case, Minister, of the last law brought forward by your predecessor, Mr. Stéphane Le Foll. This means that the conditions specific to the overseas countries and territories make it necessary to adapt the measures taken in order to take account of the special features of the sea. The first criticism we can make is that this dimension has not been taken into account, which is very regrettable. Second, the decisions that can be taken, particularly with regard to the loss resale threshold, have different consequences depending on the context of the territory. This rule, which is valid for the entire French territory, is particularly valid for the overseas territories. If specific measures have been taken to rebuild production lines, it is because this reconstruction was very difficult, in particular because of the massive dumping of products of often lower quality in these territories at low prices, to the detriment of the local sectors which are in the process of restructuring. The same thing happened in Africa when millions of tons of chickens were being dumped into Africa, which had a very negative impact on the food agriculture of those countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u234	It's caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u235	It is therefore impossible to deny the very serious consequences of the choices made on the agriculture of the various territories, whether they are French overseas or foreign territories. Unfortunately, I have not been able to be present in the debate – and I do not know if it has taken place – on the amendment I tabled on multiplier coefficients.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u236	[[Smile]] I bravely defended him, sir!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u237	However, I have followed your words, minister: it is not true to say, as you have done, that these coefficients would not solve the import problem. I will take the concrete example of release products. If such a product is purchased from the producer 1 euro while, in a normal production chain, it would be bought 3 euros, and you apply a coefficient of two, the release product purchased 1 euro and resold 2 euros will yield 1 euro profit, when, at the same time, the product purchased 3 euros and resold 6 euros will generate, with the same multiplier coefficient, a profit of 3 euros. It is therefore possible to limit low-priced imports by applying a multiplier coefficient, since the profit will be lower than that obtained by the marketing of quality products. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, NG and FI groups]] We will not solve the substantive issues if we do not have mechanisms. You will reply to me, as usual, that I am in favour of administered agriculture and that we are not in the Soviet Union. That's not true. I am convinced that, in the same way as we need mechanisms, strong protection measures are needed. It is necessary to vote on this amendment not only because it guarantees local agriculture in these territories, but also because it sends a signal and we need to send signals, that is to say to show these territories that they are not abandoned. Hope is not only nourished by the content of future ordinances: it is now that strong values need to be affirmed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u238	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u239	On Amendment No 2479, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left and the New Left Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u240	If I do not measure the impact of everything you have mentioned, Mrs Bareigts, I am very sensitive to your argument. During my professional career, I was involved not in the DOM-TOMs but in West Africa, particularly in Cameroon. I was then able to see the harmful effects of the European Union's decommitment policies on the formation of local agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u241	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u242	However, the creation of such an agriculture is a structural element of the answers that must be given in the medium and long term to the problems of asylum and immigration, which we have recently discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u243	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u244	European agriculture would not be the same today if, under the common agricultural policy, specific protection measures had not been taken: the success of the cereals and oilseeds sector is proof of this. On the other hand, the lack of measures to protect protein production has resulted in a failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u245	She destroyed the local productions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u246	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] I do not know whether we should do so in the context of this amendment, but it would be very good to take specific measures and to pay specific attention to the consequences of our actions on agriculture in our overseas and foreign countries, particularly in Africa.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u247	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u248	Let me remind you, however, that the law applies to the overseas departments and territories, as we already had the opportunity to say yesterday. Therefore, it is not necessary to specify in Article 9 that the loss resale threshold applies to the overseas countries and territories. Otherwise, every clause of the bill would have to pass amendments that specifically mention overseas or specify that the provisions are applicable – one could even do so in all the bills discussed in your assembly. Overseas countries, I recall, are part of the Republic; The law applies to all the departments and territories of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u249	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u250	We are therefore not going to define a loss-specific resale threshold for the overseas countries and territories. In the overseas regions, too, we are not going to see the RPS applicable in metropolitan France, as Mrs Bareigts would have wished. Think about the impact of such a measure! In addition, overseas production will also benefit from the overall impact of the increase in the RPS: it is not necessarily necessary that the threshold be raised locally. Even if this is not enough, even if the supply is not sufficiently structured, overseas producers also sell their goods on metropolitan territory: there will therefore be a form of equalization...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u251	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u252	... and the increase in the RPS will also indirectly benefit overseas producers. I want to insist on a technical point. If the law applies in the overseas territories, there is nothing to say today that we will not work on the threshold of resale at a loss in those territories. However, we need to pay attention to the potential effects of our measures with regard to ultramarine specificities, in particular the cost of life and the absence of supply structuring – as you yourself said, Mrs Bareigts. I know that things are a little different in Réunion than in other departments, but overseas countries are suffering from a lack of supply structure and too much import, especially of release products. As I said earlier, the referral to the Autorité de la concurrence on this subject will allow us to start work to improve the situation and to ensure that overseas operators do not always import products of lower quality and endanger the very viability of operators in their territories. Let us therefore make sure that we do not create a precedent by voting on a specific provision for the overseas countries and territories: we would then have an obligation to do so each time, and you know what this can lead to.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u253	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u254	You are absolutely right, Minister: the general provisions apply to the overseas departments, there is no concern about that. On the other hand, I understand what our colleague Ericka Bareigts is saying. We know that the rise in the RPS can have an impact on purchasing power in metropolitan France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u255	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u256	We know that it will also, no doubt with a "magnifying" effect – a little more important, a little more risky – in a number of overseas departments and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u257	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u258	The question therefore deserves to be asked, even if your answer is perfect from a legal point of view, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u259	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u260	Mr Turquois, we should not instill the idea that some people in a number of officiaries are spreading that our products could not be sold in Africa or overseas. My constituency has companies that export, whose food products are appreciated in Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere. A number of large African cities could not do without our products, because the standard of living in Africa is rising and the local population is gaining access to new consumer products. That's a good thing. Mr Turquois, if you persist in defending your ideas, I invite you to go and explain them to my employees. You'll have some trouble! As we fight to save their jobs, it will be very complicated to explain to them that they will no longer be able to export their products! We buy the products of these countries – we are right to do so – and they buy ours. They're asking! Let us stop caricaturing things by saying that trade would have the effect of destroying valuable products in these countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u261	It happens!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u262	These countries are developing well: the development of large African cities is even considerable. They must therefore be able to access a number of products, in particular meat products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u263	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u264	I would like to clarify my remarks, Minister. First of all with regard to the loss resale threshold, we did not ask for any more for the overseas countries and territories. We simply want the RPS to be applied everywhere in our territory, as you want, especially for release products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u265	Not just for release products! For all products!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u266	As far as purchasing power is concerned, as I have told you, mechanisms are now being implemented in our territories to combat expensive living, within the framework of a price-quality shield set up by the Overseas Economic Regulation Act. These mechanisms, implemented since 2013, have worked: since then, there have been no more demonstrations in our territories. This does not mean that the problem of expensive living is solved: we have taken a step and we must continue to fight against this phenomenon. I have been in the debate for a while, Minister, and I have heard you explain that raising the RPS would not have an impact on consumers' purchasing power. That's what we've been told all along. All of a sudden, however, this measure becomes a real problem for the overseas countries and territories, as it would lead to an upsurge in prices. I don't understand the reasoning. Moreover, purchasing power is also linked to employment. Again, I repeat to you, minister, your arguments on this subject are in contradiction with those you have been defending for two days: for us, the speech is changing. By letting the release products enter our territories, you will wipe out our networks, you will kill employment and then you will not allow any gain in purchasing power – the question does not even arise, as unemployment is high! That's the real subject. Minister, I have before me working papers prepared by the technostructure – indeed, you want to go through ordinances, which will prevent us from discussing these issues and which will give the technocrats a fair share. These documents plan to exclude us from the RPS rehabilitation scheme, and thus allow these release products to enter our ultramarine territories. Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to make you aware of this and get your support. It's about protecting our farmers and breeders from products that you yourself refuse to have in the metropolis...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u267	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u268	[[Applause on the benches of the NG and GDR groups]] ...but let you enter the ultramarine territories. The danger does not come from all products, but only from the release products.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u270	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u271	Minister, there is no doubt that you are legally right – our colleague Le Fur said it with different words – and you are even intellectually right: of course, a legislative provision applies mechanically to the entire French territory, whether in metropolitan France or overseas. It is equally clear that Article L. 420-5 of the Commercial Code, cited in the operative part of Amendment No 2479, will apply throughout the country. But as much as you are legally right, as much as you are politically wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u272	We know the formula well!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u273	In many of the bills that we have examined and on which you have spoken, Minister, national representation has sought to place particular emphasis on overseas priorities. It's a mistake not to do it here. If we were to look at all of our legislation or even the last bills we discussed here, we would see how many times we have been redundant, for example by adding an overseas clause. You will call it stuttering; On the contrary, I would say that it is a matter of marking strong policies. We have done so very often because it is a requirement for our country, for our nation, especially in view of the specificities of the overseas region. If we do not do so with respect to RPS enhancement, we will make a serious mistake. I expressed my surprise earlier at the absence of an overseas specific article. Many bills contain them. In response to a question asked last week by Jean-Paul Dufrègne, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion said that such an approach should be undertaken with regard to rural areas. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group as well as on several benches of the NG and FI groups]] I turn to all of our colleagues: vote on this amendment! Even if, as you say, this will not add much to the law, it will have a very strong symbolic value. In this area, let's drop the group discipline! I suspect that since the beginning of the week, you have taken the key and tightened the bolts, but you can't do it on all the subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u274	What good is this Chassaigne President?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u275	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u276	I agree with our colleague Ericka Bareigts. The overseas region has particular features, particularly on this subject. We cannot accept that products of lower quality enter the ultramarine territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u277	Especially when you refuse those same products in the metropolis!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u278	That is obviously not what this bill provides for, but what Ms Bareigts says is very important. [[Applause on several benches of the NG and GDR groups]] On the other hand, you know that obesity is more common overseas than in metropolitan France. Indeed, the obesity curve follows that of poverty: since the overseas territories have higher poverty rates, the same applies to obesity rates. Here we want to encourage an increase in the range of products consumed overseas and to change the pattern of obesity in these territories. You are right, Mrs Bareigts: we must promote high-quality products to prevent the increase in poverty and obesity from being galloping in these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u279	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u280	For me, the question is: how can we allow the economic development of the overseas countries, but also, possibly, since I have heard the intervention of Mr Le Fur, the African countries? We are praised for the virtues of free trade. Free trade is an obstacle to development, since it allows industries already developed in metropolitan France to access the markets of ultramarine territories and African countries which, until the emerging industries are protected, are condemned to remain importers. Friedrich List and, more recently, Ha-Joon Chang stressed the need to protect emerging industries. It was by introducing protectionism that the United States began to develop. England, France and Germany also had their protectionist moments that allowed them to develop. The countries that developed first have always "removed the ladder", as they say – this scale that allowed them to access a good level of development, thanks to protectionism – by preventing other countries, behind them, from developing in the same way. They have forced them to bathe in the free trade bath, which means that the non-developed countries are condemned to remain so. I will give an African example: Kenya, which has chosen to tax heavily – at 65% – milk imports, is now an exporter of milk and its population consumes more milk than other countries on the African continent. Conversely, West African countries have not imposed a milk tax, due to the constant pressure from European embassies, the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to ban it. The result today is that the dependency rate of these countries, i.e. the rate of import in relation to milk consumption, is 60%: out of ten litres consumed in West Africa, six are imported, because it is not possible to develop the emerging industries. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The question is therefore: we must allow a protectionist phase because, if France continues to carry out an export mission towards the overseas departments and territories and Africa, we condemn these countries not to be able to establish their commercial sovereignty. They must be allowed to have the trade policy they want. Today, however, European embassies, the WTO and the IMF are pressuring for the steady fall – or at least for non-removal – of customs barriers, while raising these barriers would be an opportunity for the countries concerned to develop.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u281	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u282	Mrs Ericka Bareigts, I invite you to come and participate in the work that we are going to do on the content of the orders provided for in Article 9, to see what solutions we can bring to the ultramarine territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u283	It doesn't stop you from writing it in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u284	I shall for the first time disagree with Mr Ramos: there is no question here that the overseas countries are treated less well than the metropolitan territory in terms of food quality. The text we are looking at concerns the whole of French territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u285	It's a specific situation!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u286	The law applies throughout France, including overseas, of course. As far as the overseas countries are concerned, the issue of the loss resale threshold should be addressed by measuring the impact taking into account the specificities of those territories. As regards decommitment products, we have proposed a referral to the Autorité de la concurrence in order to find ways to reduce the impact of the costs of these products on the viability of ultramarine producers' holdings. I therefore call for reason on this issue. Overseas countries are indeed present in all the texts. We have also made sure, at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, that, as we have seen with my colleague Annick Girardin, for every decision we take, every text we carry, every road map we set, we have the reflex overseas,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u287	Let's write it down!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u288	... because it is essential and because these territories, which are part of a process of progress, are immense agricultural and forestry territories that serve French agriculture and its image. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Mrs Bareigts, you mentioned "documents of technostructure". Be careful! For having belonged to a government and having been Minister of the Republic, you know that the technostructure frames us, that it works with us every day and that it does a remarkable job. Technostructure is also the Autorité de la concurrence and what we want to do can also be translated into positive terms for overseas. I wanted to stress that. Pay attention to the choice of words.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u289	I put to the vote Amendment No 2479.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u290	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 702, 713, 928, 1084, 1196, 1669, 64, 130, 142, 321, 329 and 1036, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 702, 713, 928, 1084, 1196 and 1669 and 64, 130, 142, 321, 329 and 1036 are identical. I call Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau to support Amendment No. 702.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u291	Like many of my colleagues on these benches, I believe that the text of section 9 should be more specific about the content of the order, in order to ensure that the balance of the EGAs is respected. In particular, it is important that the value and volume management of promotional transactions be financed by the distributor and/or supplier, but also that promotions on distributor-branded products be covered by the legislative framework in terms of volume and value. The risk is enormous that, if the distributor's brands are not covered by the framework, they will be the object of a war on value-destructive promotions for all operators in the supply chain. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] No circumvention of the promotion framework shall be permitted. It is better to ensure this from the time of the bill, so that the order is consistent with the commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u292	Mrs Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 713.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u293	I would like to say the same thing as my colleague: this is an amendment of vigilance which aims to clarify, secure and deepen the framework for promotions. No circumvention of the framework of promotions should be allowed, because the risk would be enormous.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u294	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 928.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u295	See, minister: there are members of the majority who are wary of the orders. They're just like me, like us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u296	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u297	Yesterday we had a long debate on the ordinances and these members of the majority, who are vigilant, want, like us, with this amendment, to ensure that the law prevents circumvention of the framework for promotions, because this must not be allowed. I am pleased that this amendment has been tabled from every bench, and especially from the benches of the majority. We are beginning to understand, in the majority, that prescriptions must be used sparingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u298	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u299	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1084.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u300	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u301	I call Mr Eric Straumann to support Amendment No. 1196.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u302	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u303	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1669.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u304	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u305	I would point out that Amendments Nos 64, 130, 142, 321, 329 and 1036 are identical. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 64, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u306	Promotion has become the norm, as several colleagues have pointed out. However, too much promo kills the promo – and the channels. That's why the bill needs to be more specific about the direction of promotions. This legislative framework in terms of volume and value must concern the distributor's brands. We want it to be by law, here and now.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u307	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u308	I would be very brief, to ensure our speaking time. What Mr Brun has just said is quite right. It is important that the clarification be included in the text we are looking at, so that the enabling bill takes it into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u309	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u310	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u311	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 321.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u312	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u313	Mr Gilles Lurton, in support of Amendment No. 329, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u314	This amendment by my colleague, Émilie Bonnivard, aims to provide that foodstuffs modified or manufactured by distributors are also the subject of a promotion framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u315	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1036.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u316	This amendment aims to make the law more precise in order to respect the spirit of the General Food States and to integrate in particular products under the brand name of distributors, as well as processed foodstuffs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u317	What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments for joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u318	The law already provides for the supervision of distributor's marks, but it is not unnecessary to recall this by law. I am therefore in favour of Amendments Nos 64 and 64, and call for all the other amendments to be withdrawn for their benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u320	The authorization is not restrictive and already allows for the supervision of all promotions. As far as distributor-branded products – MDD – are concerned, we reiterate the commitment made during the examination of the text in the Committee on Economic Affairs that they should be covered by the draft order on the supervision of promotions. With regard to the new promotional instruments – PIN – the wording "funded by the distributor or supplier" proposed by certain amendments ensures that all promotions, including these new instruments, are included within the scope of the order. We have the will to frame all forms of promotions. With regard to the supervision of promotions consisting of a discount granted in the course of a subsequent purchase, this is a delicate technical issue, to which the Government is attentive. It should be avoided that the framework can be circumvented by such practices. This will have to be worked out when drafting the order. As far as the integration of thresholds is concerned, the value and volume control rates will be set by the order on the basis of the proposals made in Workshop 7 of the EGAs between producers, processors and distributors, which actually concluded that the framework was 34 % in value terms and 25 % in volume terms. The future framework for promotions will necessarily cover each product sold for promotion. As stated in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we commit ourselves to include in the order to be adopted on the basis of this Article the rates of 34 % in value and 25 % in volume approved by the EGAs, but we must retain the flexibility necessary to determine the terms of the order. As far as animal and pet products are concerned, an amendment by the rapporteur, adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, already states that the framework for promotions will apply to them. As far as consultation is concerned, it will take place, as I said. The amendments mentioned by the rapporteur therefore seem to be more appropriate and I express a favourable opinion on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u321	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u322	I withdraw my amendment, No 1634, which will be called shortly and which could have been the subject of this joint debate. I was not concerned because the debates in the Committee on Economic Affairs had been very clear about this. However, there are concerns on the ground. Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur and the minister for being so clear: yes, distributor brand products will be well affected, without any ambiguity, by the framework of promotions. Thank you very much for that clarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u323	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u324	The same position: it had escaped my reading that branded products were entering the field, but the commitment of the minister and the perfect drafting of Mr Brun's amendment are sufficient to reassure me. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u325	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u326	I withdraw my amendment and place myself behind Amendment No 64. I agree with the arguments put forward by the rapporteur, which are in line with the orders, which I am plebiscite.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u327	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u328	The same applies to Amendment No 928: I withdraw it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u329	[[Acquiesces]] Can we consider that all the identical amendments to Amendment No 702 have been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u330	I have before me several amendments, No 1548 corrected, No 670, 956, 2682, 2659, 2660, 2661, 2662, 2664, 2671, 2669, 2670, 2674, 2676, 2680, 2681 and 2683, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 670 and 956 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 2659, 2660, 2661, 2662, 2664 and 2671, and Amendments Nos 2669, 2670, 2674, 2676, 2680, 2681 and 2683. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 1548 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u331	The aim of this amendment tabled by Mr Pradie is to clarify the framework for products, along the lines of the amendment which I tabled and which was accepted by the Committee on Food Products for Pets. In this case, the purpose of this amendment is to provide as robust a framework as possible for processed products, in order to avoid the creation of a niche that would allow large and medium-sized GMSs to bypass the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u332	We come to two identical amendments. Mr François Jolivet has the floor to support Amendment No. 670.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u333	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u334	I call Mr Gilles Lurton to support Amendment No. 956.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u335	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u336	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 2682.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u337	[[Smile]] This is an amendment of precision, in line with our previous concerns. It aims to complete the text on two points: the framework for promotions on the products of brands of distributors, in the wake of what we have just voted, but also the framework with precise figures, which constitute ceilings. We want to regulate promotions, but we also think it important to supervise the Government within the framework of the Order!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u338	We come to the second set of identical amendments. Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 2659.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u339	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u340	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2660.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u341	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u342	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 2661.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u343	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u344	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 2662, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u345	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u346	Mrs Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2664.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u347	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u348	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 2671.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u349	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u350	We turn to the third set of identical amendments. Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 2669.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u351	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u352	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 2670.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u353	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u354	Mrs Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2674.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u355	Our colleague Fabrice Brun has said very well: too many promotions kill the promotion, break the market and destabilize the channels. It is therefore a precise amendment, aimed at securing the text and avoiding any circumvention of the promotion framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u356	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No. 2676.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u357	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u358	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 2680, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u359	This amendment is complementary to Amendment No 64, which has just been adopted. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Minister for being faithful to the commitments made during the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u360	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 2681.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u361	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u362	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2683.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u363	This amendment, in the same spirit, also concerns brands of distributors. I would point out that these marks are important in the marketing of beef and veal: this deserves to be stressed and justifies that this amendment has been tabled again.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u364	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u365	With regard to Amendment No 1548 as corrected, there is no need to clarify the packaging: there will be no restrictive provision related to packaging – and I do not see why there would be any. For the other amendments, which deal with MDDs, they are already satisfied with the adoption of Amendments No 64 and identical, which cover promotions financed by the supplier and the distributor. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u366	What is the Government's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u367	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u368	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2476, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u369	This amendment is being defended because it is in line with the precedent which Mrs Bareigts had brilliantly presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u370	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u371	We have already had this debate earlier: the power to legislate by ordinance already allows the Government to act in this area. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u372	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 89 and 1416. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u373	The purpose of this amendment is to supplement paragraph 3 by specifying that the framework "covers each product and sets a maximum promotional rate of 34 % on the selling price and a maximum promotional threshold of 25 % of the volumes sold. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u374	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 1416.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u375	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u376	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u377	The power to legislate by ordinance already allows for the supervision of all promotions. The value and volume control rates will be determined by order, based on the proposals made in Workshop 7 of the General Food States on commercial and contractual relations between producers, processors and distributors: they concluded that there was 34 per cent in value terms and 25 per cent in volume terms. These percentages correspond to the intention of the Government – but I will let the minister answer. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u378	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u379	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u380	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u381	The rapporteur has just said that this was in line with the intentions of the Government, but the opinion is still unfavourable?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u382	You don't have to say that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u383	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 2412, 2423, 729 and 1055, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 729 and 1055 are identical. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2412.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u384	The purpose of this amendment is to supplement paragraph 3 to take account of the specific nature of the fruit and vegetable market. Subject to peaks of production, perishable, these products each require sale at a loss in order to dispose of the stocks before degradation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u385	You have the floor, Mrs Battistel, to support Amendment No. 2423.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u386	This amendment goes in the same direction. You will surely answer, Mr rapporteur and Mr Minister, that fruit and vegetables are already exempt from the prohibition of resale at a loss, in accordance with the sixth point of Article L. 442-4 of the Commercial Code, as well as the interministerial or prefectural order fixing the periodicity and duration of these operations. But, as we have said on several occasions, it is not enough: it goes better by saying it! I would therefore ask you to add that clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u387	I call Mr Descoeur to support Amendment No. 729.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u388	This amendment by our colleague Saddier aims to clarify, in paragraph 3, that "Specific arrangements are laid down for the raw products sectors for which an inter-branch agreement adopted by an inter-branch organisation composed of members representing all operators from production to distribution specifies this. I signed this amendment because I thought it was very sensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u389	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1055.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u390	This amendment is all the more important as it is supported by the entire fruit and vegetable sector, in particular Interfel.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u391	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u392	It goes without saying that the specificities of the sectors must be taken into account when the frequency of promotions on perishable foodstuffs is likely to disrupt markets. Article L. 441-2 of the Commercial Code allows, for the products concerned, a ministerial or prefectural order to determine the periodicity and duration of the operations. This Article was applied in particular in the pigmeat sector by the Order of 10 June 2015 on the framework of promotional operations for the sale of fresh pigmeat. It provided that, apart from January and September, it was not possible to sell products that would be 50 per cent lower than the average non-promotional price for similar products. The sectors have already begun to reflect: the pig sector plan indicates the wish of the profession for a working group to be set up to draw up a draft interprofessional agreement to regulate the promotion of fresh pig meat. The same applies to the beef and veal sector, which announces a target for the supervision of promotions: the aim of the sector is to propose, before the end of 2018, a mechanism for the supervision of promotions through an interprofessional agreement which will be subject to extension with the State. It is therefore already possible to adapt according to the specificities of the sectors; unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u393	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u394	This is the subject of particular concerns expressed in the General Food States. Since then, the Autorité de la concurrence, which we referred to on this point, has made it clear that interprofessionals cannot set a rate of supervision of promotions. We must bear in mind that there are exceptions to the ban on resale at a loss, at the end of the sales season and in the interval between two seasons, for products marked by a particular seasonal character, or for perishable products threatened with rapid alteration. In the context of the consultation we will be organising on the order provided for in Article 9, we may wish to mention the possibility of providing for a similar derogation for the supervision of the promotions which the authorization allows here to be made. Opinions unfavourable to all of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u395	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 144.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u396	As a follow-up to the intervention of our colleague Marc Le Fur, it is a matter of setting a date for the bet on the strengthening of the supervision of promotions and the increase in the RPS and the benefit of these measures for our producers by proposing their evaluation after two years. In our view, the Observatory for Price and Margin Formation is the best body to assess the impact of these measures, from consumers to farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u397	I have before me four amendments, Nos 2475, 1062, 2102 and 2527, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1062, 2102 and 2527 are identical. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2475.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u398	This amendment, already defended by its authors under the previous legislature, in the context of the review of the Sapin 2 Act, aims to regulate the sale of fresh fruit and vegetables to unpackage, which results in an increasing number of abuses. It is not a question of prohibiting the sale of fresh fruit and vegetables by unpacking, but of framing it in such a way as to maintain its exceptional character.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u399	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1062.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u400	This amendment, which was drawn up in cooperation with Interfel, a body bringing together all the professions in the fruit and vegetable sector, concerns the sale of unpacked products. We propose to return to the authorisation regime in order to ensure better organisation and more effective control of these sales, in particular in terms of traceability, quality and health safety. It is imperative that we regulate these sales.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u401	I call Mrs Toutut-Picard to support Amendment No. 2102.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u402	We propose by this amendment to strengthen the organisation of sales for the unpacking of fresh fruit and vegetables through the establishment of a prior authorisation scheme issued by the mayor. Such a system would facilitate the controls of the DGCCRF, the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention, and would give mayors a right of control and action over commercial activity in their communes, in the common interest of professionals and consumers, and in order to meet the requirements of traceability, quality and health safety, while maintaining the specificity of these sales.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u403	I call Mr Turquois to support Amendment No. 2527.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u404	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u405	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u406	Your amendments tend to shift sales to the unpacking of fresh products from pre-declaration to authorization, much heavier for municipal services and local elected officials, who are not seeking this additional constraint. In addition, you expect silence to be a refusal, which runs counter to the movement launched by the bill for a state in the service of a trust society, which establishes the "right to error". In addition, the Sapin 2 Act already provides for a framework for this type of sale: first, the Government should provide us with an assessment of the implementation of this provision. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u407	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u408	The Commercial Code already strictly regulates unpacking sales. Their duration may not exceed two months in the same premises or location or in the same district and they must be the subject of a prior declaration to the mayor of the municipality where the sale takes place, copies of which must be sent to the DGCCRF. In this context, the authorisation scheme proposed by the amendments for the sale of fruit and vegetables alone is not necessarily useful, even in view of the objective sought. Such a regime would in no way improve the targeting of CRFB controls. We are not unaware of the situation caused by wild sales, particularly in the south of France, but the burden that such a measure would place on small municipalities does not appear to be justified today. On the other hand, we would have two different schemes, one for fruit and vegetables and the other for other products, which would only add complexity where we need simplification. Finally, any authorisation system must be based on precise and objective criteria, failing which we risk falling into arbitrariness. However, the wording of your amendments does not specify the criteria on the basis of which unpacking could be prohibited. We are therefore against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u409	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u410	I understand all the less your opposition to these amendments because the bill seeks to empower all actors in agriculture, particularly producers, by encouraging them to join professional organizations. However, this proposal, of which I do not know whether it is suitable for mayors, corresponds to a strong demand for inter-occupation – other Members have indeed had to communicate its text and have made similar interventions. I mentioned earlier Interfel, the organization bringing together all the actors in the fruit and vegetable sector. The current system is a jungle where agents of competition and fraud no longer control anything and where the number of abuses is growing exponentially. By moving to the licensing regime, the profession would be given the means to put order at home. That's what matters. On the one hand, one cannot claim to help actors to be more responsible and, on the other, to deny them the responsibilities they wish to assume. That is why I insist on defending this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u411	Mrs. Elizabeth Toutut-Picard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u412	As you have pointed out, Minister, the regions of southern France are particularly exposed to this unfair and perfectly savage competition. The profession and already established traders, who pay taxes, should be protected from the spread of sales to unpacking on the public road, which is detrimental to the activity of professionals. It seems to me that they should be framed, tried to regulate them in one way or another. You say that the mayors already have the opportunity to do so and that such a change would lead to an additional workload for them: that is not what I hear from the mayors of the small communes of southern France, who would rather have the means to intervene and ensure the police of the sale of fruit and vegetables.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u413	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u414	This discussion echoes the one we had about the possibility for farmers to sell directly to individuals up to 500 kg of cereals. While health requirements were rightly mentioned, it was forgotten that it was also for a question of taxes that they were obliged to go through storage agencies. It is all the more problematic, both from the health point of view and from the point of view of competition, to see the wild sale of vegetables and fruit almost on the ground on the public road – and not only in the south – and I find that to be at least a reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u415	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u416	As rapporteur of Bill Sapin 2, I remember that this issue of unpacking had been debated for three hours – and the examples were not just about southern France. It must be noted that what we voted for has been poorly or poorly applied. [[Applause on the benches of the NG, LR and UDI-Agir groups]] I take you at the same time, Mr rapporteur and Mr Minister – and the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, who came yesterday as a back-up – when you say that the bet of your majority is to trust interbranch in order to find the right solutions. When a completely respectable, inclusive, cross-occupation across the territory, which exports, organizes, tells us: "This is the legislative norm that will allow us to separate the right grain from the tare from the sale to unpackage," we must follow it. It is common sense: when what has been done so far has proved to be insufficient and an organized and responsible interprofession proposes a solution, it is adopted. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u417	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u418	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u419	[[Rites and exclamations]] I had the curiosity, minister, to look at the content of the amendments that you tabled less than two years ago – 18 months to be precise – as part of the review of Bill Sapin 2. Surprisingly, that is exactly the proposal you have just rejected! I therefore call on you to be consistent because I imagine that convictions have not changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u420	Insolent!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u421	That's ugly!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u422	I imagine that the legal analyses that have just been opposed to us were just as valid yesterday – or I don't understand it anymore. I therefore ask you, Minister, to be consistent and consistent, if only to be credible!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u423	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u424	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u425	I would like to bring water to the mill of those who defend these amendments. There are two subjects. The first is unfair competition, which penalizes professionals. Unlike those who practice unpacking, they are in fact subject to a number of constraints, a number of taxes, and have to meet certain standards – I know something about it because it is my family's history. The second is traceability, and I would like to give an example. The use of dimethoate, mainly used to treat cherries and tomatoes, has been banned in France for some years. In the south of France, tomatoes and cherries from Italy, Spain or Turkey are sold for unpacking, where processing is allowed. I simply ask that we be consistent when we impose rules on the small producer in the corner that do not exist in our European neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u426	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u427	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u428	Creating an authorisation regime will not allow you to fully respond to the problems encountered and raise them – I understand them in part. [[Smile]] Mr Guillaume Garot referred to amendments that I was able to sign at a time when I certainly had to have hair.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u429	It was less than two years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u430	I remember that, in that majority, commitments have been made, but they are now very pale given the results in the territories and what has not yet been implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u431	Do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u432	We mustn't deny ourselves like this!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u433	Of course, there is no question for me of misappropriating the difficulties that fruit and vegetable producers may encounter when they do their work in accordance with all the health and tax rules applicable in their territory. Today, we need to increase the controls of the DGCCRF within the framework of the Departmental Anti-Fraud Operational Committees – the CODAF – and in connection with the security services – the Gendarmerie, etc. -...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u434	These controls don't take place!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u435	... as well as all other services concerned so that they have a strong reach and so that such situations are avoided, even if it is difficult. At this stage, in view of the information that I have within the framework of my responsibilities, we have the elements that can make it possible to carry out these checks – I would add, as I said earlier, that the amendments that have been defended do not mention precise criteria. In addition, we can continue this work with Interfel, with whom I obviously had the opportunity to discuss. We will continue to do so to try to find solutions for our producers. Finally, I would like to recall one important point: a joint Franco-Spanish fruit and vegetable committee, which we launched with the Spanish Minister last year, also aims to find solutions, to carry out checks on both sides of the border in order to try to limit the impact of wild sales and to unpack fruit and vegetables.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u436	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-25-O1224.u437	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bill to balance trade relations in the agriculture and food sector and healthy and sustainable food. The meeting is adjourned.
