ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u1	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u2	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u3	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u4	Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, we look forward to your arrival. We hope that the Members of the majority will, too, arrive in the Chamber! In any event, we see that this week of control is not a priority for everyone. I wonder if your delay is not a signal of the weakening of Parliament that will result from the reform announced by the Government. Unless it's a momentary strike, what's up! In any event, punctuality is important for the smooth running of our meetings: it is a matter of mutual respect between the Government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u5	The next item is the questions on the Government's privatization programme. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. We begin with the questions of the New Left Group. Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u6	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Paris Airport Group – ADP – welcomed more than 100 million passengers in 2017 at the airports of Paris-Charles-de-Gaulle, Orly and Bourget. He is responsible for the development, operation and development of the Francilian airports and their land, which have been given to him in full ownership. This is what makes Paris airports unique to other French airports. ADP is therefore of major strategic interest to our country. It is not just about the planning of the territory of France: the Parisian hub is crucial for the development of national air transport, for the airline Air France KLM, and beyond, for the economic development of our country. It paid more than EUR 250 million of dividends to the State in respect of the results for 2016. The Government and the legislator did not err in 2005: therefore, article 1 of the Act of 20 April 2005, by which the public establishment Aéroports de Paris was transformed into a public limited company, provides that the majority of the capital is held by the State. Given that this company owns a vital infrastructure for the Nation, its public character is fully justified. Despite these elements, does the Government intend to privatize ADP? We fear him. However, international comparisons do not show the desirability of such a decision. No large infrastructure of this kind has been entrusted to private actors anywhere in the world, except in the form of public service delegation or concession. And the study of the capital structure of European airports shows that our country is already among those that have most opened the capital of its airports to private shareholders. What guarantees would the State have in the event of a failure of the enterprise? How would he ensure that the majority of the capital remains French? How would he verify that the company is looking after the strategic interests for which it would be responsible? In view of the large dividends paid to the State by this company, what economic logic would there be to privatize it? What would be the social consequences for the staff, who have accepted the recent evolution of their status in exchange for this clause guaranteeing that the majority of the capital would be held by the State? What would be the consequences for the development of Air France KLM? [[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] All these elements, all these questions, which demonstrate, in truth, that it is not necessary to open the file of a privatisation of ADP.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u7	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would be grateful if you would accept my apologies for my delay due to an accumulation of obstacles at the end of the day. The essential thing is that I can assure you of the importance that I attach to these sessions devoted to the monitoring of the Government's action. You can refer to the report: you will see which ministers come to it themselves, and which ministers send their Secretary of State to it! If I wanted to be present, it was that I care about this subject. Yes, ADP is a strategic enterprise for our country. Mr Vallaud, not everyone has as good a knowledge as you of the structure of ADP's capital, as it results from the 2005 Airport Act. The State holds 50.6 per cent of the shares, while private shareholders share the remaining 49.4 per cent. These private shareholders have an unlimited right to operate on ADP. There would be one solution, the one that you call "privatisation" – I am not sure, for my part, that this term is the most appropriate. The Government would reduce its shares in the legal structure resulting from the 2005 Act, in order to increase the share of private shareholders to 50 per cent, 60 per cent or 70 per cent of the total. You should know, Mr Vallaud, that we will not choose this solution. We are working on other options, in order not to give private shareholders, who have an unlimited right to operate on a strategic asset, a capacity to control and control investment in the future: I would find this exorbitant, because ADP is a gateway for all airport activities in France. I repeat, we will not accept this solution, which is rarely chosen in the rest of the world – I think it is only for Heathrow airport in Great Britain that this formula has been chosen. The choices we make will be to preserve the ability of the state to control a strategic asset. But there are two ways to control: a presence in capital – which has been retained so far and is not necessarily the best solution – and regulation. For my part, I believe that regulation is the best way to guarantee State control over a strategic activity such as that of ADP.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u9	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u10	Minister, the break-up innovation fund you're planning to create is a good idea. However, I believe that its implementation brings with it the bad news. First bad news: on July 5, you indicated that this fund would consist of proceeds of disposal "non-strategic public enterprises". But at this point, it seems that you include among these Aéroports de Paris companies – a subject that my colleague Boris Vallaud has just mentioned – whose share of the state is around 8 to 9 billion euros, which would almost correspond to the amount you will need for the fund. I hope, Minister, that you do not regard ADP as a non-strategic public enterprise, knowing that it is the gateway to Paris, the gateway to air flows, which calls for a real strategy – which is currently being implemented. Second bad news: you have finally explained that what will be invested for innovation will not amount to 10 billion euros, but to the yield of 10 billion euros, that is to say between 200 and 300 million euros per year. It's not exactly the same. The third bad news is the very constitution of this fund. Indeed, you are going to sell 10 billion euros of state stakes, so recover cash, and invest it in a fund already created – securities are currently in port. This leads me to ask you two very specific questions: will this money that will result from the sale of 10 billion securities be reinvested in new securities, and in this case which ones? Or will this money be reinvested in government bonds? If this is the second option, it means that your break-up innovation fund will actually be a government debt-debt fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u11	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u12	[[Applause on the benches of the NG group]] It's not the same strategy at all. I would be grateful if you could give me a precise answer. Are you going to put in this 10 billion euro fund corporate securities or similar bonds from the Treasury – OAT?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u13	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u14	First of all, I am glad that you recognize that the creation of this breaking innovation fund is good news.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u15	We always said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u16	All right. I think it is important to recall this, because the innovation of break-up in France, I would like everyone to be well aware of it, is not financed today. We finance incremental innovation, the renewal of production capacities, but with regard to the innovation that allows us to make SpaceXs, technological leaps by investment in artificial intelligence, with regard to all this innovation in which we must invest, but without guarantee of success because we do not know whether it will work or not, we do not finance anything. Now we're going to do it. And that will be thanks to proceeds from the disposal of State assets. As it will be progressive, I cannot answer your question right away. I would like to go back to your assertion that ADP is a strategic undertaking. Because the point of this debate is to go to the bottom of the issues. What are the strategic elements in ADP? The Hermès store, the chocolate sales corner or the hotels?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u17	Flight plans!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u18	Or the runways, the flight plans, indeed, the Member, the safety, the regulation, the tariffs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u19	Land!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u20	...not to mention the land? That, yes, it's strategic.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u21	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u22	And there is therefore no question that the State loses the capacity to control and regulate the strategic nature of this undertaking. On the other hand, I believe that the expansion of the airport, a new terminal or investments in hotels or shops are not at the heart of the State's strategy. And if we are going to carry out these divestitures of assets, it is precisely to redefine clearly in the eyes of all the French – which has not been done for thirty years – the place of the state in the French economy. For me, and I fully assume it, because it is all the merit of the political debate to put the terms of the debate before the French without necessarily being in agreement, the place of the State is defined according to three criteria. I believe that the State, first and foremost, is the public services, the first of which is SNCF, which will therefore remain a major national public service, contrary to what some say to throw a little oil on fire in the current context. The second role of the State is to maintain control in areas that are within our national sovereignty. In this regard, it is clear that nuclear energy is not going to be privatized or anything in the military domain. And then there is a third type of state activity to which I am very attached: control of economic public order. Thus, when companies do not respect economic public order, whether they are French or foreign – think of Google or Apple – we start procedures to get them condemned. But as for the rest, I believe that it is not for the state to play the role that it is being played today, especially since there are other more effective means of control than the presence of 10%, 15% or 20% on a board of directors, in a company capital: regulation. Whether it is for La Française des jeux or, in the case of ADP, for runways, for air control, for security, for borders and also for tariffs – so as not to commit again the error committed with the motorways – it is regulation the right answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u23	And the 10 billion, what will they be invested in? In ATOs?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u24	Minister, I would remind you that you are subject to the same rules on speaking time as Members: the duration of the answer may not exceed two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u25	[[Smile]] It was to compensate for my delay, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u26	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u27	Minister, here on February 21, I was robbing the Minister of Public Accounts, Gérald Darmanin, on the risks of a privatisation of French gaming. This sector of activity requires powerful and consistent regulation for reasons of public health, public order, the fight against fraud and the protection of our citizens from the risks of dependence. The French game is not a company like the others, because the game is not a commodity like the others. According to the Observatoire des jeux, those offered by the French Games cause 60% of the problem of problematic gambling in France. This is certainly logical in terms of its weight in the sector, but it is possible to estimate the only direct costs from the state budget to 900 million euros and to 8.7 billion the total economic and social costs of the problematic game due to the activities of the French game. Christophe Blanchard-Dignac, his former president, himself felt that it was sometimes difficult to arbitrate between the company's results and the company's social responsibility. This led him to remove the game Rapido, considered too addictive, in 2014. What about a private shareholder? What will the defense of responsible game by the French game leaders weigh against the temptation of shareholders to maximize their dividends? The other concern, Minister, is the financing of sport. La Française des jeux is the leading contributor to sport for all in our country, an effort that last year represented 80% of the financial resources of the CNDS, the National Centre for the Development of Sport, through the levies from its lottery, scraping and sports betting games. But these affected taxes were reduced by your government from €210 million in 2017 to €93 million in 2018 for the French game alone. Is it necessary to see in this half-robot, unprecedented on the part of Bercy, a first step in the disengagement of the French from the games in the financing of the sport? What will happen, Minister, to these missions of general interest for a private shareholder? The prevention and respect of the prohibition of gambling to minors, the fight against addictions, the fight against the laundering of dirty money: all these missions of public interest of the French game must not be cancelled!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u28	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u29	Mr Juanico, I am sorry for that, but I will now be briefer without my answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u30	[[Smile]] It was predictable!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u31	[[Smile]] That's a shame, because I like to be exhaustive. Games will remain a monopoly. There is no question of reverting to the principle of monopoly. The idea of opening this sector to unlimited competition because we would privatize French gaming is not in line with the logic of the divestiture that the Government wants to do. The aim is to avoid excessive development of games in France. Whether it's scraping games, lottery or sports betting, all will remain in the order of monopoly. And regulation will apply. I wish, and have discussed it at length with Gérald Darmanin, who has authority over French gaming, that a regulatory authority be set up, because there is a risk of addiction, which I do not underestimate. It will apply its controls to all these games to avoid the development of addictions. And these controls are in the same perspective as before: it is a matter of having a strong, coherent and, in the case of French gaming, reinvented, in order to guarantee the maintenance of the control of the State even when it divests its assets. Therefore, be reassured, as I announce that we are going to put in place this regulatory authority that will ensure that there is no development of gambling addictions as part of this operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u32	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u33	Minister, since the beginning of the mandate, the Government's action seems to call into question any public intervention in the economy as well as in public services. With regard to housing or employment policy, for example, you and your colleagues are taking on a model change that will soon favour private operators. If some still had doubts about the liberal vision that is yours, the action plan for the growth and transformation of the companies that you propose is clear: French Games, Paris Airports, SNCF, EDF... The warehousing has indeed begun.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u34	The big braderie!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u35	Without learning the lessons of the privatisation of motorways, you are about to yield, by dogmatism and for some short-term profits, our florets and our levers of action. Beyond the political principle, this raises several questions. Is it appropriate today to cash sums, albeit round sums, if it is to give up tomorrow, as the Court of Auditors has regularly pointed out, to solid dividends? Is it effective to deprive ourselves of strategic tools at a time when we are urged to act? Is it fair to ask users to pay the price? I am thinking in this way of hydropower, the historic vector of the industrialization of the mountain valleys, but above all an indispensable tool for the energy transition and the planning of the territory, which represents clean, renewable and storeable energy for which our country must remain at the forefront. The challenges of energy independence, production security, water resource control and user costs must lead to extreme caution and firmness. We repeat this: energy is not a good like any other and should not be privatized as requested by the European Commission. The liberalisation process is not inevitable, as long as there is political will to defend the public nature of our dams. The highly mobilised energy trade unions, joined by local elected representatives and users, all reaffirm their commitment to this heritage, which is inseparable from the general interest. Mr Minister, can you give us a clear indication of the state of play in the negotiations with the European Commission on this subject and confirm your willingness to sanctify this national heritage, a strategic path that deserves to be protected? You told me you were paying attention to it during a visit to Isère.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u36	My dear colleague, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u37	[[Other movements]] Furthermore, having noted that you did not answer Valérie Rabault's question, I understand that the state will issue TSOs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u38	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u39	[[Smile]] I feel to your question that it was time to dispel certain cartoons – "liberal vision", "great raderie", we would sell the family jewels... It's like Martine Aubry selling the Lille Braderie!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u40	Let's keep our dams!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u41	[[Claims on several benches in the NG group]] Fi des caricatures, let's go back to reality and truth. Mrs Battistel, you are referring to "solid dividends", but I am sorry to recall that ADP's dividends represent only 140 to 150 million euros on average over the last three years, or 1.6% of returns, the lowest level of all the state's assets.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u42	It's better than Book A!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u43	But if it's your vision of state management, both on your banks and on some others, to receive 1.6% return dividends and cash them well, year after year, immobilizing to make 10 billion euros of assets, assume your choice! Mine is done: I prefer to place them in a fund for breaking innovation and thus have the capacity to finance what you are talking about,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u44	The OATs are probably better!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u45	...renewable energy, whether in terms of production, storage or research into new energy sources. I think the money is better used that way. [[Murmures on the benches of the NG group]] And the French will cut between your old and dated vision, which wants us to receive small dividends and to immobilize a huge mass of public money, and ours. Where should public money be invested? Our choice is made: in the future of the French and in the new generations. You say that no lessons have been learned from the privatization of motorway companies. What allows you to say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u46	The price of the tolls we pay year after year!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u47	What allows you to say that? Do you know what we're going to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u48	Privatize hydroelectric concessions?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u49	No, I just don't think I've given you such a clarification, otherwise what would be the point of our debate tonight?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u50	That was the subject of my question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u51	We will learn from what has been done with regard to motorway companies. An error was made when they were privatized: the concessions did not provide for the possibility of returning to the tariffs at a later date. Yes, I readily admit it, it was a mistake. It's better not to do twice the same thing. We will therefore correct it: in the context of the operation aimed at ADP, we will make possible both regulation and control, in order not to allow a concession, whatever its duration, to last with tariffs fixed once and for all and on which it is not possible to return.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u52	Tell us what you'll put in the fund!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u53	I would like to reassure you, Mrs Battistel: I am very willing to acknowledge the mistakes and, above all, we are here to correct them. [[Smiles – Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] However, I will only reply a little later – I promise to do so – to your question about energy, because otherwise I may be taken up by the President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u54	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u55	Minister, I come back to the case, because on various points, your answers do not convince us. Paragraph 9 of the Preamble to the Constitution of 27 October 1946 states: "Any property, any enterprise, the operation of which has or acquires the character of a national public service or a de facto monopoly, must become the property of the community. » The latest examples of privatization, such as that of motorway companies, have been a disaster: private groups make profits on the backs of users who do not see the service improving in any way. In addition to initiating the privatisation of the SNCF by opening up some of its activities to competition, your government is preparing to lure to the private the French game in very juicy operations. But what guarantees will we have that a private company will maintain a policy of addiction prevention? I want you to come back to this point. Moreover, the transfer of an additional share of Engie's capital, such as the privatization of the ADP Group, also raises questions of national sovereignty, since an airport is a border. You are actually planning to abandon the state's management of air transport and gas. The logic of the private sector is necessarily to favour short-term profits, as it is based on considerations contrary to the general interest. What, then, is the logic at work on all privatisations, Mr. Minister, apart from that of gushing private companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u56	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u57	Mr President, I do not know what language to say again: we do not want to privatize SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u58	[[Smile]] Creole? The language you want, minister, but not the language of wood!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u59	If I can say this again in the language you want, it will not change the reality: we do not want and we never intended, yesterday, today, or tomorrow, to privatize SNCF. SNCF is a major public service, but if we want it to remain so, we must give it the means to succeed, to develop and to invest, and to become as competitive as its rivals that will arrive tomorrow in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u60	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u61	I want its production costs to continue to be 30% higher than those of Deutsche Bahn, but on the day that the trains chartered by Deutsche Bahn arrive in France and those of SNCF will not be competitive, this situation will weaken our national railway operator. The difference between those who want conservatism and us is that we believe in the future of SNCF's public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u62	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u63	That is why we think it is necessary to modernise it. You tell me, MP, that the competition is not good: I will. In this case, let's stay at the time of Air Inter...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u64	You prefer Ryanair?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u65	...and France Télécom. For my part, I believe that the opening up of airlines to competition has made it possible to lower the price of air tickets. All French people, all our fellow citizens, know very well that it is not bad for some airlines to compete with Air France so that the fares for air passenger transport offered to them are cheaper and more accessible. You who sit on these benches, to the left of this House, should be sensitive to the fact that the cost of living, that of transport, is falling thanks to competition. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the background, your conservatism leads you to defend a number of privileges for those who have more expensive airline tickets when there is no competition. That is the difference between you and us.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u66	And what do you do about the role of local authorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u67	[[Exclaims on the banks of the NG group]] The same applies to France Télécom: if the company had not been confronted with competition, what would be the price of mobile telephony today?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u68	10,000 jobs destroyed!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u69	Yes, competition is a way to improve service and lower rates. In essence, honourable Member, we do not agree on what a public service is. In our view, it does not belong to those who exercise their profession within it: it belongs to the public, to the citizens and to the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u70	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u71	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously not a question of language, but, indeed, a question of public service design and accessibility. I do not believe that the working conditions in companies such as Ryanair and the tax optimisation operations they carry out actually benefit the community. From our point of view, there is something disconcerting to see, precisely, the stubbornness of new and old liberals – this word is not an insult in my mouth, but rather the mark of a political-economic choice assumed. For us, since the beginning of privatizations – or rather, since we must no longer use the words that are annoying, since the beginning of the state's disposal of a number of its assets – the reality remains the same: only a short-term logic prevails. A good example of this is the privatization of airports. Under the previous quinquennium, the then minister of the economy, Emmanuel Macron, decided without any reason to privatize Toulouse-Blagnac airport, whose state owned 60%. Thus, the sale of 49.9% of its capital to a Chinese group based in tax havens was allowed, even though it had been promised to the French and French that the state would remain the majority shareholder! The new shareholder did not make the promised investments: on the contrary, he punctured the cash to grant himself colossal dividends. In our view, this example, like many others, raises the question of the economic, social and strategic assessment – not only in recent years, but for decades – of privatization policies carried out, especially with regard to the benefits and benefits that the national community has been able to derive in the medium and long term. We are no longer talking about the price of a few airline tickets, but about the overall strategy of the state and the accessibility of public services – particularly in the rail sector – throughout the country and for all citizens, not about the competition for which profits are obviously – and logically – the first objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u72	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u73	Madam Member, I would like to point out that the various operations you mentioned are not of the same nature. For example, with regard to Toulouse-Blagnac airport, the State has retained a 10% shareholding and local authorities have increased to 40%, so we are not in the process of privatisation. Before putting all the operations in the same bag, it is better to look at exactly what they correspond to. With regard to evaluations, they are all welcome. In fact, I had proposed that our tax policy be evaluated in two years' time: this policy is taking on radical changes. In addition, I look carefully at the valuations that have been conducted, in particular on certain transactions involving the disposal of assets: I am thinking of the one relating to motorway companies. You noted earlier that the lessons had to be learned from what has been done in the past. This should of course be done if public decision-making is to be improved. On the operations we are considering, all the lessons learned from what has been done in the past have been drawn – which has been successful, the competitive processes that have proved to be effective, as well as what has been less successful. I note that the operations which have been the least successful have been those in which the State has not maintained, through regulation, means of control preventing them from becoming speculative. In no case should an asset transfer be like a speculative transaction: this will not be the case with the transactions you have just mentioned. I would not have the malice, moreover, to recall that with regard to privatisations, the government that did the most during the Fifth Republic is Lionel Jospin's: it is therefore proof that these privatisations are not necessarily left or right.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u74	No: they are social-liberal or neo-liberal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u75	They may in fact simply respond, at a given time, to a reason of general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u76	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u77	Minister, let's go back to the French game: you are planning to reduce the state's shareholding to 25% to 30%. The idea of privatising French games is not new, since it has been dragging in Bercy's drawers for many years: Nicolas Sarkozy had considered it and Emmanuel Macron was still talking about it in 2014. The then Secretary of State for the budget, Christian Eckert, had protested against this prospect, believing that this privatization would be an economic countersense. The French gaming company is a well-functioning company, which allows the state to collect substantial tax revenues – 3 to 4 billion euros per year from the levies on the bets – and to receive 100 to 150 million euros in dividends. It makes this reference. Above all, the French game is not a company like any other, because gambling is not a commodity like any other. This raises, a priori, a question of ethics. Moreover, the company feeds 80% of the budget of the National Centre for the Development of Sport, the CNDS – we had a debate about the level of allocations allocated to it a short time ago. The company's network also allows, today, to support the buralists, for whom gaming commissions account for almost a third of the turnover: it therefore also plays a role in the local economy. Maintaining a state monopoly would, in our view, be justified by the urgent need to prevent and effectively combat the risks associated with gambling: this is the ethical dimension that I have just addressed. These risks – linked to money laundering, potential fraud, the protection of minors and the prevention of addictive behaviour – are social and societal issues. In the face of these proven risks, if you have indeed, Minister, turned on a counterfire by announcing that you want to guarantee the state's monopoly by doubling voting rights, your approach remains ambiguous. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the NG group]] In the light of this situation, have you planned to review this project?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u78	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u79	No question, no answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u80	Mr President, I share your willingness to fight against gambling addiction. Let things be very clear between us: there is no question of engaging in an operation that may prove speculative – I think I have shown, over the last ten months, my opposition to any such operation – or that could have the consequence of developing the addiction of young people to games. That is not my vision of society or what I want to develop. I recall that the state holds 72% of the French capital of the games, the remaining 28% being held by minority shareholders. First of all, I would like to point out that the level of tax revenues will be maintained: there will be no tax losses due to the change of majority shareholder. Indeed, the principle of monopoly is retained: there is no question of scattering French games in several companies. Secondly, it is my heart that the levy made for the benefit of the CNDS should be fully maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u81	He's been divided by two!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u82	This remark seems to me to reassure all those who were concerned about it: it is important. Finally, in the third place, the Buralists were legitimately questioning: an agreement will therefore be reached with them. Here too, the advantages associated with the current organisation of the French Games will be fully maintained: I fully understand the concern expressed by the territories about the Buralists. Finally, I tell you again that on the occasion of this sale of assets, we will strengthen the regulation to which the French gaming company is subject by creating a regulatory authority which will be specifically designed to combat the development of addictions to games and to ensure that the new configuration of the company's capital does not have any negative consequences in this field. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would point out that our country does not currently have such a regulatory mechanism: it will be equipped tomorrow, in order to fight against addiction to the game about which I fully share, Mr President, your vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u83	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u84	"I say again that they will not be privatized. This is what Nicolas Sarkozy said in the same Chamber in 2004 about EDF and GDF. Any resemblance to actual facts or existing characters is certainly accidental. In any case, these comments clearly show that the truth of one day is not that of the next, since the energy market was opened to competition and GDF was privatized shortly thereafter. The Government today prides itself on not privatizing SNCF, but the proposed reform very clearly paves the way for privatization and opening up to competition itself will de facto lead in our country to the privatization of entire sections of the railway service and system, which are currently provided by a public service. You wanted to convince us that with the private sector, prices would drop, that trains would arrive on time, that grace would finally touch us. Our fellow citizens can testify to the effects of opening up to competition on their gas and electricity bills. They remember the privatization of motorways, which became real cash machines for dealers. Their experience should encourage you to be cautious as you plan to privatize ADP, formerly Aéroports de Paris, and to separate yourself from public participations. It would be more useful to give virtuous guidance to management and the economy. These operations lead the public authorities to make a bad financial deal, to lose control of strategic infrastructures, and can rob them of an ability to intervene. They can also lead us to pay several times for infrastructure that sometimes duplicates – I am thinking in particular of telephone infrastructure – in disregard of any sense of responsibility for the resources of the planet. We are against the privatization of the world, which gives power to the big owners. We prefer public service to him, which defends the general interest and the common good, and which is indeed the property of all. I'll ask you three questions. What exactly can you tell us about your plans to dispose of assets, which should be debated? What can you tell us about the nature of the funds, including the break-up innovation fund you mentioned? Isn't this a pass-by to finance the debt? When will you think about renationalizing highways?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u86	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u87	I readily acknowledge that the truth of one day is not the truth of the next day. All of us who have even a little political experience will share this judgment of common sense. But you can also look at those who fulfill their commitments and those who do not hold them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u88	In terms of the decline of the CSG, for example?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u89	... those who believe in public services and those who do not necessarily believe in them. For my part, I believe in it, and I tell you that SNCF will remain a public service. We will, I hope, convince the French: the Government's will is that SNCF remains a major public railway service. Having such a public service is a pride for me, as Minister of Economy, and it is an asset to our country. The railway workers, the infrastructure and all the staff of the SNCF are all factors of attractiveness of the French territory. We have criticized the policy of all-TGV, but high-speed lines also contribute to the attractiveness of our territory. The existence of railway lines everywhere, even in the most difficult departments of access, is a major asset of the attractiveness of the French nation and territory. Believe me, there is no question of bracing these assets or of going back to the principle of public service. On the other hand, I deeply believe that, if we want this public service to continue and be able to resist open competition tomorrow, we must make some difficult decisions on status, investment, structure or debt. They will all have to be taken at one time or another to ensure the future of the French public rail service, of which I am convinced it is probably one of the best in the world. It will remain so if we are able to transform it. I think that a public service can be profitable, that it can generate profits, that it is not intended to accumulate 3 billion euros of losses each year: 1.5 billion operating losses and 1.5 billion charges created by the interest of the debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u90	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is what we want to change, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and I, by reforming the SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u92	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr Nicolas Demoulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u93	Minister, the state sold 4.5% of its shares in Engie's capital last September, after having already sold 4.1% in early 2017. Today, it owns 24.5% of the company's capital, of which it remains the benchmark shareholder. The tendency is to want to give in again. To do so, it is essential to rethink the legislative framework. This is one of the challenges of the PACTE law – an action plan for the growth and transformation of companies – and we will, I know, ensure that we strike a balance between the sale of shares, its consequences for employees and the services offered. Such divestitures raise some questions for the employees of the energy distributor. In the territories, Engie is an actor close to town halls and citizens, providing, in addition to energy, advice to save money or to isolate housing. On the brink of two roles – selling energy and offering customers solutions to save money – this company has a history with the French. In 1946, Gaz de France was created. In 2008, the company changed to GDF Suez. Finally, in 2015, GDF Suez became Engie. Today, Engie's employees are worried. They do not see the interest of the State in extracting part of their business. They do not see, in a context of offshoring, tight-flow services and mass unemployment, how their jobs can be saved. Minister, can you reassure them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u94	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u95	Mr President, you know that there are legal thresholds which guarantee the share of Engie's capital held by the State, as well as its representation on the company's board of directors. Given the divestitures that have taken place in recent months, a legislative decision will be required if we are to go further. In the coming weeks, we will see whether this should be done and, therefore, whether such a procedure should be initiated. I want to reassure the staff first. Their concern, which I fully understand, will be an important element of appreciation in the decisions that we will make, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and myself: we must secure the staff and alleviate the concerns that may arise at Engie. Secondly, to all those who are concerned – legitimately – about energy, I would point out that regulation can be as effective, if not more effective, than the presence of the state in the capital of the company. The energy regulation at the disposal of the French State allows it to retain control over Engie, whatever the capitalist formula it will retain. Finally, we also have a specific action in this undertaking which allows us to oppose any decision on the transfer of strategic infrastructure, storage of natural gas or installation of liquefied natural gas. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I announced this earlier at the topical questions session: in all the companies in which the state has a stake, we will put in place a specific action that will guarantee it the possibility of intervening in the event of a strategic decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u96	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u97	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have just spent some time hearing the fears and fears of certain privatisation projects. I have every confidence in the minister's provisions and explanations to safeguard our strategic interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u98	Normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u99	I hope that we will now talk about the meaning of these privatisations. Minister, the proceeds from the disposals of non-strategic assets that you are going to earn must abound the €10 billion fund dedicated to financing break-up innovation. This fund, a campaign commitment of the President of the Republic, is an essential element to prepare France for innovations, to accompany industrial transitions, to develop innovative solutions in promising sectors such as the ecological or digital transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u100	You bet!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u101	It is by looking at the technologies of the future and preparing for the ruptures of economic models that French flowers will succeed in the global competition, and that we will bring concrete solutions to the challenges facing our society. It would be interesting to understand how this fund intended to finance break-up innovation would work in practice on a daily basis. What will his doctrine of action be? What will be its governance? How will it be piloted and controlled?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u102	Excellent questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u103	With regard to its targets, what will be the innovations, companies and sectors that will benefit from funding? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Finally, what will be the size of the tickets invested in the companies selected? This last point is essential. It would be a shame if the State were to fall into the trap of powdering, and enter too many companies and too many projects into the capital. For France, the challenge is not to create a large herd of ponies, but to help the development of a few unicorns, which really weigh the weight against American or Chinese giants and excellent on the scale of a global market.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u104	I applaud that question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u105	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u106	Madam Member, you are giving me the opportunity to clarify the operation of the break-up innovation fund, with €10 billion and revenues of €250 to €300 million per year. These revenues will be affected by an innovation board that will include qualified personalities, scientists and competent officials on all issues related to break-up innovation. He will be co-chaired by Frédérique Vidal, Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, and myself. The Board will decide on the allocation of the fund's revenues and the piloting of all existing innovation aid, totalling around EUR 1 billion. Innovation aid is now being piloted very far away. Together with the competent scientific authorities, we want to establish a more coherent steering, which will enable the most innovative companies to be accompanied at all stages of their growth. For the time being, two investments have been announced by the President of the Republic. The first, amounting to EUR 100 million, is intended for artificial intelligence. The second, worth €70 million, will support the first steps in the growth of high-tech start-ups at deep tech. This amount will be distributed by Bpifrance. Beyond these amounts, future investments will be devoted exclusively to breaking innovations, which means that tickets will be important. This will avoid the risk of powdering that you have mentioned. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would add a key element in my view: this fund for French break-up innovation must become, as soon as possible, a fund for European break-up innovation. It will receive 250 to 300 million euros of revenue per year. If ten major European countries were able to feed a fund of the same kind, we would benefit from 2.5 to 3 billion annual incomes. It is more than the DARPA – Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency – which funds the American break-up innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u107	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u108	Minister, innovation is the key to the future of our businesses and their competitiveness. It is an issue of economic growth and the way to bring out the French industrial champions of tomorrow. France has the necessary assets for the emergence of innovative companies: know-how, technological excellence and international reach. Sometimes only a financial springboard is needed to launch or develop an innovation. In order to provide the necessary support to the sectors of the future and to break-up innovations, the Government intends to create an investment fund of 10 billion euros, in accordance with a campaign promise of the President of the Republic. This fund will be abounded by revenues from the divestiture of State interests in several companies. Among the companies envisaged, the ADP group – as we have noticed this evening – regularly returns to the discussions. The consequences of possible privatization can be questioned. The State wishes to retain control of so-called "strategic" enterprises. As airports are border points and are a gateway to the territory, it may be questioned whether these facilities do not appear as strategic in the reception and management of flows. On the other hand, the ADP group is experiencing significant economic growth. The company is particularly profitable. What would be the relevance of privatization, which would bring regular and substantial budgetary revenues to the State? Finally, the ADP Group is in a position of monopoly on airports in the Paris region. Once privatized, the risk is that new private shareholders will want to increase the price of fees and reduce the quality of service to the detriment of passengers and airlines. How could the state continue to regulate these areas by no longer being a shareholder? Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know your position and the ways forward on these strategic and economic issues related to the privatization of the ADP Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u109	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u110	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u111	Again, Madam Member, I would like to reassure you and avoid misunderstandings about the Government's plans in this area. We do not intend to privatize the border police. We do not intend to privatize customs. We do not intend to privatize airport security or the control of people. We do not intend to privatize the regulation implemented by DGAC – Directorate-General for Civil Aviation. All of this will remain under public control, and there is no question of a single second saying that because we are considering divestment of assets, we could give up strategic control.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u112	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u113	These are two different things: there is exploitation, on the one hand, control and regulation on the other. There is no question of weakening what is at the heart of national sovereignty: security, controls, regulation of air traffic. As far as fees are concerned, I will repeat my previous comment, because it seems important to me: yes, we will learn from what has happened in other operations. There is no question of repeating the mistakes that have been made by setting tariffs once and for all, with an automatic adjustment mechanism, and considering that if this increases too fast, it will be so bad for the user. There is no question of this, because it would be unfair, ineffective, and that could give the operation a strictly financial character, contrary to the objective that we pursue with the Government as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u114	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u115	Mr Minister, it is common to hear that the only way to protect our strategic interests from the control of foreign powers is the shareholder state, and that if the state is no longer a shareholder of our flagships, it will have lost all decision-making power. This statement is not on the road. First, having a very small percentage of an enterprise's capital is in no way a guarantee for the State to weigh in its decisions. Secondly, there are strategic florets for national defence and security where the state has virtually no weight on capital, without anyone worrying about it. Thirdly, many states, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, do not consider it necessary to be capitalized by their military suppliers or so-called "strategic" companies. No, simply being a shareholder is in no way an absolute guarantee to influence the course of a business. No, privatizing a company is in no way a renunciation of the protection of our strategic interests. Other tools, much more powerful and relevant, exist to influence the decisions of privatized companies: to ask investors to formulate commitments at the time of recovery and to strengthen the monitoring and sanctions mechanism; create specific shares, the famous golden shares, so that the State has exceptional rights; orient public procurement and research programmes, particularly in the military field; encouraging employees to participate more directly in the capital of their company, as this is the best way for companies to remain French; and, of course, apply the existing rules in certain sectors, as you mentioned earlier, particularly in the air field. Minister, could you elaborate on the tools that you want to use, and even strengthen, in the context of the future PACTE bill – an action plan for business growth and transformation – to promote our strategic interests in some privatized companies where nothing, other than a historical legacy, today justifies a presence of the state in capital?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u116	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u117	Mr President, I do not have much to add to what you have just said, because I totally share it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u118	That's not our case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u119	The State of tomorrow, in my view, must guarantee the proper exercise of its sovereign missions, free up investment capabilities on its sovereign missions and those related to national sovereignty, but in return be able to disengage from a number of assets while paying great attention, clarity and maintaining control and regulation over what it considers most essential. That, in my view, will tomorrow be the place of the state in French society. There are also, I repeat, great public services to French, which do the honour of our nation, and – I will go even further – which are part of our identity. Yes, La Poste is part of our identity; It is a major public service and is intended to remain a major national public service present in all our territories, in all our communes, in all our departments. Yes, SNCF is a major national public service, I will not go back to it; To transform it is to guarantee its ability to succeed in the coming decades. Regulation can be just as effective, if not more effective, than participation in capital. I will not have the cruelty to recall the number of decisions that have been imposed on the minority shareholder state in companies of which it had 5, 10 or 15% of the capital, where it was content to see the bullets pass without being able to decide itself. Indeed, neither regulation nor its presence in capital was sufficient. For our part, we have a very different vision and, it seems to me, more efficient of the place of the State. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would add an important element that has not been mentioned this evening: the development of employee ownership is a powerful means of stabilizing companies, so as to prevent them from being preyed on by unscrupulous investors tomorrow. The draft law on enterprise growth and transformation will contain specific provisions to develop this form of ownership in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u120	Mr Denis Sommer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u121	Minister, the state's participations have been decided in the past to conduct public development policies in our country, to prevent external takeovers, to recapitalize companies that are likely to find themselves in difficulty. These participations are not intended to last forever. We would like to analyse the objectives pursued when it is decided to give the State a strategist role, able to create the conditions for the development of SMEs, rather than allowing it to receive dividends – a development that you described earlier. The first objective of supporting innovation, in my view, will have to be accompanied by clarification measures, in particular on an issue which I believe is essential: the sharing of risk, which will have to be redefined. Secondly, how can we finance the "death valley", i.e. the delay between innovation and marketing? We know that many companies have difficult access to the financing needed to ensure their development. Thirdly, how can capital intervention tools be strengthened in strategic enterprises? What industrial policy should be pursued with regard to emerging sectors, particularly in the area of sustainable development, such as energy storage? There are strategic areas for the future, such as the fuel cell or the development of hydrogen distribution networks for the hydrogen fleet. These questions, which will emerge in the next five to ten years, are likely to affect the whole world. Minister, can you tell us your direction in these areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u122	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u123	Here too, Member, I share your vision and your concerns. I want to reiterate how much we have fallen behind in breaking innovation – I am not just talking about France, but about all the European states. I also want to stress that, unfortunately, the rules of the game are not equal all over the world. In a very large country, which develops at accelerated speed, customers and potential consumers wishing to buy a car operating with an ion-lithium battery can only benefit from the premium associated with this purchase if the battery is manufactured in that country. What would it say if, in France or Europe, the benefit of this kind of premium was limited to cars manufactured in our territory? So we don't play with equal weapons. One of the major challenges tomorrow will be to ensure that everyone is subject to the same rules so that the competition is fair. But today we need to invest massively in breaking-up innovations. In this regard, I think we can all be proud that France is the first country to have such a fund, that it is taking the lead on the subject, and that it is proposing that its partners join the movement. This will enable us, on matters such as artificial intelligence or the storage of renewable energy, to make up for the delay we have taken. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is not only a question of economic growth, but also of technological sovereignty. Imagine, tomorrow, autonomous vehicles, guided by processors and technologies that would be American or Chinese. We could only realize the body and structure of the car. Where would be the autonomy, the technological independence of a French nation or a European continent whose cars would be driven by American or Chinese systems? That is the underlying issue. That is why we must reinvest the state's resources in the direction of breaking innovation and these new technologies. Behind economic growth, I insist, is a vital question: our technological sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u124	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u125	Minister, "Whenever society is temporarily motionless, those who live there imagine that no change will take place, as well as having seen the telephone start, they do not want to believe in the airplane. You recognized Marcel Proust, who was dying in front of the first planes. For my part, I would like to talk to you about those who do not want to believe in more planes over their peaceful neighborhood, of the inhabitants of Île-de-France who, quite rightly, are concerned about the announced privatisation of Paris Airports, managing company of the airports of Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle, Orly and Bourget, whose state is now a majority shareholder at more than 50%. What future for the francilian sky, Minister, with an increase in traffic – an average of 6% a year – to the detriment, probably, of the health and tranquillity of the inhabitants flying over? Public participation provides a long-term vision for strategic sectors such as the air force. On the other hand, within private groups there may be little attempt to develop the exploitation of platforms, in particular Orly's, whose theoretical traffic could be twice its current capacity. Minister, the development of airports, whether buildings, businesses or on-site airlines, results in an increase in the number of passengers and flights and, potentially, an increase in nuisances. We know that the state will eventually give in to its control and regulation mission. This rapid, uncontrolled increase in air traffic will have consequences in terms of health, nuisance, pollution, and air traffic control will be very weak in the face of major economic interests. The current curfews and the maximum number of air movements are likely to suffer greatly at the expense of the inhabitants concerned. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, if the withdrawal of the State from the ADP group is perhaps attractive on paper, it is less attractive in terms of governance, the economic performance of the air sector and the environmental preservation of the Île-de-France region. I want to make sure you're aware of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u126	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u127	"This year, pessimism is going a long way," said Marcel Proust to one of his friends. But, at the time, it was the beginning of the Great War; It was therefore, it seems to me, more justified than today. That being said, I would like to reassure you, Mr. Member. I know your attachment to the Île-de-France region and the one, no less legitimate, that binds you to the commune of Juvisy-sur-Orge, which you conquered a few years ago. I know that many people in the Île-de-France region and in communities near airports are wondering: in the event that there is a transfer of assets, could we see a private owner arriving who could do what he wants in terms of air traffic on Orly or Roissy? The answer is no, three times no. I fully understand that the inhabitants concerned are wondering whether they will obtain the necessary guarantees with regard to noise pollution and the volume of traffic. The answer is yes, three times yes. Whatever decisions the Government takes, I repeat, we will maintain the regulatory capacity that exists today in terms of air transport. I am aware that you have fought, like other mayors in the surrounding communes, to reduce the nuisances associated with air traffic, to obtain take-off and landing schedules that are more protective of the interests and well-being of your fellow citizens. It is respectable, legitimate, necessary: there is no question of returning to this subject. A few days ago I received the Vice-President of the Île-de-France region in charge of transport, and I am quite ready to discuss this with you and all the mayors of the Paris region who wish to do so. I will assure them that the regulation of air traffic will remain in the hands of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u129	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u130	Minister, the Government recently announced its intention to privatize French gaming, and our colleague Juanico asked you a moment ago about this issue. Currently, French gaming is 72% owned by the state. The minority shareholders are symbolic and correspond to our history, as we find the company's employees, up to 5%, the buralists, the "slashed mouths", up to 9% and the Fédération nationale André Maginot, bringing together associations of veterans. According to the information we have received from the press, your government is considering reducing its shareholding in this iconic company to 25 or 30 per cent, with double voting capacity. Of course, these provisions would allow the state to retain a majority position in French gaming, and the regulation of gambling would continue to allow it to benefit from strong cash inflows. To Mr Juanico's question, you replied that games would remain a monopoly and that an authority would be responsible for regulating this activity. So, minister, what is the interest and sense of the state's disengagement? This privatization raises many questions. What will be the place of current minority shareholders, including veterans' associations? Does not the decline in State participation anticipate the total exit from the State, as has been the case in other private companies? Is it not a short-term operation, intended to obtain an immediate return of money, but depriving future generations of income with the reduction of dividends paid to the state? [[Applause on the benches of the Republicans Group]] Finally, I have a philosophical question for you, minister. It is recognized that gambling profits can benefit public interest operations, such as support for veterans' associations or buralists; This is understandable and legitimate, and corresponds to our homeland and our nation. But that insurance funds and market speculators can feed on the loss of French players, this is a problem! What is your Government's view on this question of principle?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u132	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u133	Everything is important, ladies and gentlemen, nothing is negligible in this respect. Employees now hold 5% of French gaming capital, and I want them to have more. Everything that will allow to develop employee share ownership, to the French Games or elsewhere, will have my support and that of the Government, because it guarantees the stability of a company and is probably one of the best protections against acts of predation. Gérald Darmanin has signed a new contract with the Buralists, which increases their remuneration for the most profitable games. This therefore guarantees them a very favourable outlook. Other minority shareholders, including veterans, will retain their securities. As much as I believe that the State must remain at the heart of the public railway service, of certain strategic activities such as nuclear energy and, of course, of defence activities, I find it difficult to understand what justifies the State being responsible for games. Let him avoid addiction, let him control it, let him regulate it, three times yes! I have already said it enough, and I will never stop repeating it: I am hostile to any addiction to games and I wish to protect future generations from them. That is why we propose the establishment of a regulatory authority. But, for the rest, I believe that the role of the State is not to deal with the Lotto or the drawing or scraping games. This is my understanding of the role of the State in a modern economy. The dividends of the French game represent 89 million euros when the French game's tax revenues amount to 3.5 billion euros. We will retain this €3.5 billion tax revenue, but we do not think it is up to the state to deal with the operation of this business. A private operator can do so just as well, in a framework of consumer protection regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u134	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u135	Minister, the Government needs money to finance President Macron's election promises. Indeed, some of them are very expensive, such as the abolition of the housing tax, which no one claimed, but which will have to be accompanied by compensation for local authorities, or the universal national service. But the President of the Republic persists, we must find funds. It is then that the Government will resort to the old easy remedy, that of privatization. Under cover of a quest for rupture 2.0, there is a risk of a social and territorial divide. In particular, there is a question of the introduction of French games on the stock exchange; the State would retain only between 25 and 35 per cent of the capital, instead of the current 72 per cent. Some newspapers argue that the Government could offer preferential actions to the Buralists in order to encourage them to sell more games. The aim would be to calm their legitimate anger, born from successive increases in the price of tobacco. But can you, Minister, assure us that the Buralists will retain, in the long term, the monopoly of games in physical networks? And how much will the state lose in the long term? For, according to former minister Christian Eckert, the French game company is currently "a cash machine" for the state, a machine that it will lose. You're going to tear up the family jewels. The other sector that the Government seems willing to sacrifice would be aeronautics and defence, which are strategic sectors. We're talking about Airbus, Thales and Safran, excuse me for a little bit! They are essential industries for our country, especially for its exports. To withdraw again, would it not be a risk of further loss of industrial jobs on our soil, while the industry continues to lose ground in France? Are you going to disarm us again? [[Applause on the benches of the Republicans Group]] Should such privatization take place, would the Government intend to promote employee ownership, as provided for in the Act of 6 August 1986 on the modalities of privatization? This law required the State to offer 10 per cent of the shares sold on the market to employees with a discount. Having been amended by an order in 2014, I come to ask you, minister, whether this government intends to promote employee ownership and, if so, on what basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u136	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u137	I repeat to you, Mr President, that I am in favour of the development of employee ownership. If there were to be a divestiture of French gaming assets, I would like to see specific stock schemes for the employees of this company planned. I totally share your vision on this. Whatever the decision taken by the Government, we will maintain the monopoly on the distribution of ruralists. Regardless of the operator chosen, the tax revenues will remain the same for the State. There is no question of weakening the level of tax revenues collected by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u138	They'll have to be distributed to the shareholders.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u139	No, they will not be distributed to shareholders: you confuse the management of the business with the level of tax revenues. The state doesn't need any funds. We have managed to achieve the European target of a budget deficit of less than 3% of GDP – it amounted to 2.7% in 2017 – without needing to do any privatisation. We are engaged in these operations in the name of a vision of the place of the state in society and the need to invest for the future rather than to receive dividends. The conceptions of the place of the state in society contrast those who think that the state is there to receive dividends and those for whom its role is to invest in the future. We believe it is best for him to invest in the future. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like to leave your comment on the fact that no one was calling for the removal of the housing tax: no one was asking for it, perhaps, but everyone will be satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u140	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u141	Minister, there are not just pessimists in this chamber, you can rest assured.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u143	I am particularly optimistic and ask only to hear and accept all your responses on the privatisation of Paris airports. Nevertheless, some concerns remain when one sees a Government realizes one of its assets and separates itself from one of its flagships to finance its cash flow needs, without legibility of the expected gains from future investments. I can only be worried, and I wonder what future generations and our children will have when the entire heritage is sold. ADP is a lucrative company, particularly important for the development of France and the Île-de-France region. Controlling transport around the capital is obviously an essential element for good economic development. Above all, Minister, you indicated earlier that the capital invested and blocked generated only 1,6 points of profit, a particularly inadequate level. Do you think a private investor will be satisfied with this? Will a private investor not want to develop transport? You assured us that the state would continue to control the activity: what will you do with other small airport platforms, such as Pontoise-Cormeilles-en-Vexin, located in the Vexin Regional Natural Park, when the new investor wishes to develop new activities there? [[Applause on the benches of the Republicans Group]] Can you assure us today, as you outlined earlier, that this privatisation will not take place without a thorough consultation with the region, the departments and the municipalities which are suffering the impact of the activities of these airports?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u144	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u145	There will be an in-depth consultation with all the elected representatives of the Île-de-France region. A few days ago, I received at length Stéphane Beaudet, vice-president of the Île-de-France region in charge of transport and president of the Association of Mayors of Île-de-France, to respond to a number of expectations, including those legitimately formulated by Robin Reda. I invite you to participate in these consultations, as it is very useful to listen to the proposals and to respond to the concerns of local elected officials. The only way to meet the government's cash flow needs is to increase growth and tax revenues. Our economic policy will not vary by one iota: we need to develop businesses and growth in order to obtain more tax revenues. Last year demonstrated the correctness of this reasoning, since we had €6 billion in additional tax revenue compared to what we had announced, thanks to the return of growth. This is more effective than sales of assets, which are used to redefine the place of the state in French society. Whatever the solution chosen, the one who would take responsibility for ADP tomorrow, if we went to the end of our idea, could develop shops, hotels and shops. A private operator would be better able to do so than the state, because I do not see how the state should be responsible for a commercial gallery. He would have the right to do so. But, as I shall keep repeating, charges and air traffic will remain the responsibility of the State. This operator will not be able to increase all of a sudden the amount of the charges paid by the airlines, as this would be contrary to the interests of the companies and the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u146	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u147	Minister, the Government has announced that it intends to divest all or part of the capital held by the State in certain enterprises. This could involve the Engie group, which came from the merger of Gaz de France and Suez. As we all know, Engie manages strategic gas infrastructure, which requires state control in the name of sovereignty and energy independence. In addition, the Engie Group outsources jobs as customer advisors through some of its providers, not only outside France but also outside the European Union, resulting in a deterioration in the service provided to French consumers' associations. Today, the State's share in Engie is only 24 per cent of capital, while the law provided for a 33 per cent floor state detention. In addition, with the draft law on the Business Growth and Transformation Action Plan (CAPTE), the Government is committed to putting social and environmental responsibility at the heart of corporate missions, which is particularly suited to those whose state is a shareholder and who work in an energy sector with undeniable social and environmental dimensions. So, Minister, how does the Government intend to ensure that the Engie Group will continue to carry out its public service tasks for the benefit of energy independence? How does he intend to ensure that the group will put an end to its policy of job losses in France, in particular through some of its providers, in order to contribute to the revival of the French economy and employment in France desired by the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u148	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u149	Mr President, I understand your concern about outsourcing the jobs of customer advisors. We pay particular attention to this, but to some extent it also shows the limits of the shareholder State when faced with commercial realities and the company's decision to relocate part of the benefits. We are obviously attentive to the social dimension of these relocation operations. We are also attentive to the constraints on Engie's procurement strategy and the revision of its business architecture, but we cannot define the strategy of the group in its place. Regulation is a better response to this situation than the mere presence of capital. With regard to strategic infrastructure, the specific action ensures the maintenance of these assets, in particular as regards natural gas and liquefied gas. I repeat, the holding by the State of a specific participation or action in certain undertakings allows it to oppose a decision contrary to the general interest and our strategic interests. It is the best protection of the strategic interests of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u150	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u151	Minister, my questions concern privatisation in the airport sector. In recent years, transfers of shares and privatisations in the airport sector have concerned Paris, Nice, Lyon or Toulouse. We discussed the situation in Toulouse a few months ago. Over the past few weeks, the possibility of the State divestment of some of its assets in the ADP group, which builds, develops and operates the airports of Paris and its region, including Paris-Orly, Paris-Charles-de-Gaulle and Paris-Le Bourget. It is true that the divestiture of certain public interests in large companies is a considerable financial lever for the State. They both ensure the proper management of the shareholder state's portfolio and ensure the financing of innovation, notably through the break-up innovation fund created last January. However, the State must also play its role as regulator, and these divestitures, sometimes to non-European investors, raise several questions, whether it is in Paris or Toulouse, which remains concerned by possible privatisation. Minister, I would like to ask you three questions. How do you intend to ensure the continuity and quality of public service for the millions of our citizens who use these airport platforms, as well as for companies, for which these infrastructures are crucial? How do you intend to preserve the strategic dimension of these airports, on which are located many French and European industrial jewels, such as Air France, Airbus or Thales? In the end, in the event of divestitures of holdings or privatisations in the airport sector, can you assure us, Mr. Minister, that these revenues will well finance break-up innovations in a nearby sector, such as aeronautics and space, which are of particular concern to the Toulousans?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u152	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u153	Mr President, I share your vision. I would like to reiterate the extent to which all these operations, which we are thinking about with the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, are responding to a long-term strategic vision. We have time: we will do it when we choose it; We will not do so under the pressure of markets or anyone else. Today, the state takes care of everything and everything. He is present everywhere, and no one has the courage to question the place of the state in France and to wonder what its fundamental missions are. It is this logic that led us to consider these operations on Engie, on ADP or on the French game. These decisions are well thought out and are based on a strategic vision of the respective place of the company and the state in French society. I know your group is particularly involved in this reflection. It is not even the continuity of the public service that we seek, but the improvement of the service rendered to the user. We believe that a private operator will know much better than the State to operate the commercial activities of airports, be they hotels or commercial galleries. On the other hand, as far as transport, air flows, tariff levels and charges are concerned, it is imperative to maintain control. I know that your group is paying particular attention to motorways and mistakes in this area. I had the opportunity to discuss it at length with François Bayrou a few days ago, and I know his legitimate concern. We will answer that, because we do not want to repeat mistakes that will then be made on the consumer and on the French citizen. On the contrary, we want to prepare the future of the French by keeping an effective and strong regulatory mechanism in the hands of the State. As far as Thales is concerned, there is no question of reducing the State's share, since it is a strategic asset: this enterprise operates in a sector of activity under national sovereignty, in which the State has its full place. Finally, I repeat, if there were to be a disposal of assets, the product will be allocated mainly to the financing of breaking innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u154	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u155	Minister, tonight's exercise is for us to come back to the same issues. The constitutional reform announced may make it possible to change the rules... As you said, the state currently owns 50.63% of Paris Airport's capital, which generates nearly 130 million euros of dividends per year. While the sector is experiencing a real economic boom, with a doubling of air traffic expected for the next two years and an estimated ADP Group result increasing by 30-40%, the decision to divest the State's holdings needs to be carefully considered. Of course, it is legitimate for the shareholder state and the largest public participation agency in the world, the EPA, to play their full role of rationalizing the public portfolio in order to maximize its effectiveness. You reassured us of the risk of rising airport charges and taxes to the detriment of users and of growth in the sector whose profits would be lost to the State. I would like to stress the complexity of managing the strategic land rights-of-way associated with airports, which represent 412 hectares, although, as you mentioned, an operating licence scenario of 70 to 90 years is intended to limit these risks. I have several questions to ask you. In order for the sale of the shares to be economically justified, have you taken into account the discount of the dividends that could be withdrawn – 2% annually a minimum – which would amount to 6.5 billion euros, that is, the stock exchange value of the state's securities? Can this amount be achieved without assigning land rights of way? Did we go around all the legal solutions before we were confronted with the "all or nothing" of privatization? Finally, will the foreign investment control mechanism subject to prior authorization be applied?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u156	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u157	Mr President, the amount of discounting the full amount of dividends that Airports de Paris could bring back in the coming years is less than the proceeds of the divestiture. Even assuming that we were only considering this transaction from a strictly financial perspective, it would be interesting. However, we do not envisage the operation this way. We want to redefine the respective role of the State and the enterprise in society, as well as the means of State control, through regulation. Yesterday, State control necessarily involved the presence on the board of directors and the holding of a shareholding. I think very honestly that this has not yielded all the desired results. Moreover, it has deprived us of very large assets, which amount to billions of euros. We are therefore redefining this policy. The strength of this majority is also to want to profoundly transform the country's economy. Finally, I confirm that the control provided for in the decree on foreign investment in France will apply to this operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u158	We come to the questions of the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u159	Minister, I would like to welcome the Government's initiative to open up all or part of the capital of certain public enterprises, because it is not the role of the State to receive dividends from a competitive sector company. I welcome the Government's strategy: the role of the State is to monitor the implementation of existing regulations, but it is not necessarily to control capital. I am also convinced that we have the capacity to guarantee, through regulation, the rules necessary for the provision of public services or the safety of our citizens. The IUD, Act and Independent Group will ensure that the State maintains a monitoring mission in the various sectors of activity concerned: energy, transport, airports or games. My two questions relate to the use of the money collected through these possible openings of capital or disposals of assets. First, as with artificial intelligence, will part of the breaking innovation fund be devoted to research and development and to blockchain startups? It is the breaking innovation par excellence, which will spread in many sectors of activity. Secondly, will part of the funds thus collected be devoted to the protection by the State of its strategic interests? Our strategic technological enterprises must be protected from the predation of certain foreign countries, regardless of the action of the European Commission. I am thinking in particular of a company that was French, but is now Swedish, because it is a subsidiary of Nokia: how to avoid the possible sale of Alcatel Submarine Networks by Nokia?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u160	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u161	Madam Member, I know your full commitment to FinTech – financial technologies – and your willingness to support their development in France in the years to come. I fully share this commitment. Beyond our discussion this evening, I would like to say again how far all the decisions taken by the Government over the past several months, including the December 2017 order, will allow the development of new financial technologies, be it blockchain or bitcoin, which can in some cases be used effectively. FinTech does and must continue to be the strength of our country, so it needs to be developed and supported. With regard to new financial technologies, since particularly bold Deep Tech projects will meet the breaking innovation criteria defined by the scientific board of the breaking innovation fund, they will of course be able to access its financing. As far as predation is concerned, the more advanced technologies we have, the more we need to be able to protect them. What I announced earlier, specifying the Prime Minister's announcements made a few hours ago here, goes exactly in this direction: widening the scope of the decree on foreign investment in France to include data storage, the space sector and other fields; the ability to take specific action in certain undertakings in which the State owns shares; Establishment of an Economic Defence Council at the level of the President of the Republic. All of this should help to protect our most sensitive technologies from investments similar to looting. When state-of-the-art technologies are available, they are protected. When breaking innovations are developed, they are not allowed to disperse at all four winds. Finally, we are particularly vigilant about the future of ASN, a strategic undertaking for France. If the proposed sale did not take place, it is precisely because the State considers with great attention all that concerns it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u162	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u163	Minister, we are not fanatics of selling family jewellery. If we see the interest that this may have, we do not ignore the strong symbolic value attached to the divestiture of ADP – we must not tell each other stories! It is therefore important that the debate be held. Thank you for participating and taking the time to listen to us. Will this debate go beyond the framework of this House? We would like to cut short the suspicions that we would be tempted to sell ADP under any conditions, without the necessary controls, as was the case with previous privatisations. Will there be a public debate on this topic? Concerns were also expressed about safeguards. You just gave a few. Other options exist, such as excluding property from sale. The other shareholders would have to be compensated, which is complex, or the operating licence would have to be converted into a limited-term concession, which seems less interesting. In addition, do you intend to propose, within the framework of the CAPTE Act, an evolution of the legislative framework under which ADP falls? With regard to La Française des jeux, the fascination with money in our country and, in general, in Western countries is limitless. The impact of the gambling sector on young people and fragile populations, easily caught by the fascination of money, is particularly strong. Can you guarantee that the state will remain the majority and will remain free to control the future owner's propensity to invent new techniques to seduce the weakest?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u164	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u165	I assure you, Member: I am fascinated by a lot of things, but not by money. The operations we are considering are not primarily financial.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u166	Then don't do them!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u167	They have a strategic vocation. You are calling for a debate, but whatever decisions the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic take on the divestiture of assets, they will require legislative empowerment, and therefore a debate in Parliament. It seems entirely legitimate to me that such important subjects, which redefine the place of the state in society and regulation, which affect sensitive assets, should be the subject of a substantive debate in Parliament. In this regard, I thank the members of the New Left Group for taking the initiative in this debate, which is coming to an end. We have been debating for almost two hours. We have dealt with many issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u168	Not all subjects!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u169	I still have to answer Valérie Rabault, which I will do very precisely when the time comes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u170	On the back!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u171	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This debate also explains the Government's philosophy, which I believe is most important. It is not a question of arming such a company or selling "family jewelry", as I have heard fifteen times. It is a matter of asking ourselves calmly and lucidly the question: which state do we want for tomorrow? What is most interesting for future generations: to receive dividends with sometimes very low rates of return or to invest in the future of our children? We believe that we must invest in the future of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u172	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor, in the name of the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u173	Mr Minister, you never hid from this: you have planned divestitures of assets – which is a way to avoid the big word "privatisation" – to the tune of 10 billion euros, in order to finance projects or companies in the fields of data processing and artificial intelligence. In this way, you will take out shares in old companies to place your money – or rather ours – in the new digital world. Why not? I'm not one of those who, as a matter of principle, clings to family jewelry, as they say. In fact, you already sold Engie and Renault securities in the second half of 2017 for a value of 1.6 billion euros. As for the €8.4 billion missing, it is on the side of Paris Airport and La Française des jeux that you seem to want to find them. You are not the first to do so in order to equip the State with the means it lacks, and you will probably not be the last. My question is about the limits that you are setting yourself, today and especially tomorrow, with regard to the privatisations that you are implementing. The State Equity Agency, which is responsible for the management of the State's portfolio – in fact our portfolio – is active in the capital of eighty-one companies, with assets of the order of EUR 100 billion. In this wallet, what are you ready to sell and, above all, what are you determined never to sell? If I understand your willingness to participate in innovation and invest in technologies of the future, are there not, however, sectors in which the state absolutely must keep its hand? You have indicated that certain strategic assets must remain under the control of the public authorities. Which companies are these specifically? Are you prepared to commit yourself to this assembly to never yielding them?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u174	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u175	Thank you for the last question, Member. It is fundamental and allows me to specify the perimeter we are working on. The questions asked tonight focused on La Française des jeux, ADP and Engie. We must not be far from the target of the Government's reflections on the disposal of assets! On the other hand – you are absolutely right to remind us – we must also specify what we do not intend to give in under any circumstances. These are first of all the major public services to French. I repeat this evening, in the context of a debate entitled "Questions on the Government's privatization programme" – we can legitimately question this term, of which I am not sure it is most appropriate to designate all the operations we are considering – that our public services are intended to remain public services to French. I quoted SNCF, but I could also have cited La Poste or EDF. All these companies are public and must remain public. The State has no intention of returning to this point. These are the undertakings that I will call sovereignty, on which national sovereignty depends, such as those in the nuclear energy sector. Our energy sovereignty is in question, as well as our ability to provide energy to French households and businesses at a lower cost than that of our European partners. Finally, they are defence companies. All these companies, such as Areva, Orano, Thales and Naval Group, are not intended to be the subject of divestitures of assets, even less to be privatized. I also repeat that the State retains the means of intervention, which it has even strengthened in order to guarantee our technological sovereignty. The clarifications I provided earlier on the extension of the scope of the IEF Decree are important. They show that, contrary to what has happened too often for years, in France and more broadly in Europe – back from our Chinese and American partners who never hesitate to prevent a divestiture if it touches a strategic asset – and which consists of saying that nothing can be done that is contrary to European rules. What is possible, we do; It's even necessary. I used the term looting and I keep it. France does not intend to allow its technologies to be looted. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and NG groups]] Finally, I must say that the term "privatization" is sometimes heavy with implication and concern. In the case of ADP, which I referred to at the outset of the debate, the State's shareholding is 50.6 per cent of the capital, that of private shareholders 49.4 per cent. The simplest would be to blow up the lock and increase the share of private shareholders while leaving them the eternal, time-limited right of exploitation that they currently have. It's an easy solution. Like all facilitating solutions, it will not be retained by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u176	Thank you, Minister. The question-and-answer session on the Government's privatization programme has been completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u177	The next item is the questions on industrial policy and employment. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. We begin with the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor for a first question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u178	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, ladies and gentlemen, the deindustrialisation of our territories is due both to the financialisation of the economy, which is destructive for employment, investment, wages and training, and to the decline of the strategic and visionary state, which anticipates and drives the dynamics. Public authorities must play a major role in developing industrial activity, resolutely forward-looking, determined to strengthen knowledge and know-how, respectful of the health of its employees and of the environment – in a word, to develop the industry of the 21st century. However, successive governments have simply multiplied gift packages without conditions or targeting, first and foremost the CICE – the competitiveness employment tax credit – to the tune of €20 billion a year, more than the solidarity and integration budget, the cohesion of the territories or the security budget. These 20 billion have had no effectiveness! However, the Government has decided to sacrifice this mechanism by means of a permanent reduction in employers' contributions as early as 2019, aggravating the potential budget for social protection. As for the research tax credit, its annual amount is EUR 5.5 billion, which is supposed to finance research. It is, in fact, a great opportunity for large multinationals to optimise their taxes. Nestlé-Galderma received €23 million in 2016. What's the result? These devices are costly and ineffective. They're wasting public money. Why not act decisively in a targeted way, for example in favour of SMEs, with appropriate aid? Why not weigh on management choices, against the massive use of subcontracting for example, a division of labour that is critical in many respects? Why not create funds for employment and training to deal with the skills challenges that are growing in the industry? Can you, Madam Secretary of State, clarify the real intentions of the Government in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u179	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u180	Mr President, you deplore the retreat of the strategist state, and you regret that the competitiveness measures that have been taken since the previous legislature, and which will be continued and reinforced by the Government, are not sufficiently targeted. But the diagnosis is clear: it is our entire industry – large groups like SMEs – that has suffered from a lack of competitiveness. If we only deal with part of the problem, we're not going anywhere. When we compare ourselves to the German industry, the Italian industry, the Spanish industry, which have resisted much better than ours, it becomes clear that a comprehensive response was needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u181	Comparison is not right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u182	It should also be borne in mind that neither the research tax credit nor the CICE, which will be transformed into reductions in long-term expenses, are State financial aid; This is a method of calculating the corporate tax on which companies are liable. The amounts due for future years will change according to the decisions taken by these companies: for example, Galderma will obviously no longer receive CIR, while this company has received substantial support for its research and development expenditure in the past. We take these measures, and we believe it is necessary to continue our efforts to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies, while specifically supporting the transformation of SMEs: we want more innovation, more exports, and that is the whole purpose of the French Fab.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u183	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u184	Madam Secretary of State, Coca-Cola is perhaps the most famous multinational in the world – and one of the most powerful. Coca-Cola France made 69 million euros in profits in 2017, yet decided to remove 128 jobs in France, 44 of them in the Bouches-du-Rhône. The workload has not decreased, even though the Regional Directorate for Enterprise, Competition, Consumption, Labour and Employment, DIRECCTE, has been concerned about working conditions. This decision, for which procedures seem not to have been followed, is therefore unjustifiable, and the freedom to undertake – which has been opposed to me – is like the arbitrary freedom to terminate at peace. It is not my idea of a rule of law that protects those who work. The situation is substantially the same as Sophia-Antipolis, where Nestlé, which is not much less known or much less flourishing, announces that it wants to remove 550 jobs in Galderma by moving them to Switzerland. This is the world's largest research and development centre in dermatology. Finally, I was able to meet the employees of Gemalto, a leader in IT security, whose state is a shareholder and who – in anticipation of its next takeover by Thales, whose state is also a shareholder – plans to eliminate 228 jobs, mainly in research. The group posted a profit of 453 million in 2016 and has a doubtful deficit for its French subsidiary to justify its plan. By the way, it called on a consulting firm to develop a "influence strategy" with the administration and to "neutralize" elected officials and the media. I dare not think, Madam Secretary of State, that you have been neutralized! Such practices should be punished by law. It goes without saying that the measures adopted this summer by ordinance encourage and facilitate this type of behaviour, on which I would like to know your feelings. On each of these topics, how do you act?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u185	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u186	I can indeed answer you on each of these subjects. As far as Galderma is concerned, the Government, like you, deplores Nestlé's choice, and has made it very clear to the leaders of the group. We followed this file very closely in order to obtain the continuation of R&amp;D activities at the current site by means of separate Nestlé companies, and likely to offer reclassification opportunities for former Galderma employees. Nestlé must also make a substantial effort at individual reclassification, and put in place accompanying measures to measure the means and results of the group: laid-off employees must have every chance of finding a job in good conditions. As for Coca-Cola and Gemalto, both companies indicated that they had identified market developments and a significant erosion in the selling prices of their products. Restructurings have therefore been decided to preserve their competitiveness. In both cases, the Government pays attention to the support provided, which must still be commensurate with the means of these groups. Gemalto is, as you said, being acquired by Thales: this specific context does not alter the company's analysis of the evolution of its markets; But the reclassification opportunities will therefore be more important for Gemalto's employees. Finally, with regard to Coca-Cola, unfavourable measures have been taken since 2013, in particular the soda tax. The resulting decline in consumption is good news for public health; But it explains the restructuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u187	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u188	On January 29, Ascometala was taken over by the multinational Schmolz-Bickenbach. The takeover offer left aside the Saint-Saulve site and the Hagondange steelworks; Furthermore, production line closures are planned: this is the case for Fos's wire train, while Ascometal is the European leader in the production of ball bearings. Why should we solve this? 200 jobs are involved, and these closures could threaten the future of the entire site. Discussions are also under way on the acquisition of the Ilva company by ArcelorMittal, the consequences of which can be feared. The European Commission also seems to be committed to fuelling economic war and the destruction of sites or upstream links. The issue of investment is crucial. The Fos site has a major investment deficit and development projects are being searched for in vain, while prospects exist. However, it is essential to act both from the point of view of economic activity – conceived as an appropriate response to needs – and from the environmental point of view. From this point of view, steel plants need a real technical check, like the Fos coke plant: employees must no longer be put at risk when they are at work and the surrounding populations must be protected. The steel industry is a highly strategic sector and cannot be abandoned; its fate cannot be sealed because shareholders are only concerned about their dividends. The public authorities, in new forms, must be fully involved in giving back power to employees, citizens and citizens in management choices, by promoting the logic of cooperation and channels. These companies are getting public money: we don't have to go through it. Our ports must be not only places of passage, but also privileged places of production. In the Gulf of Fos, trade union organisations are calling for a round table on the future of the steel industry. Would that not be necessary also at the national level?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u189	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u190	With regard to Ascometal, a procedure has been initiated to search for a buyer, since the situations are more or less difficult depending on the sites. It was not possible to maintain the entire Fos site. The Swiss Schmolz and Bickenbach were chosen by the High Court, whose offer was considered the best from the point of view of the sustainability of jobs and activity throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u191	That wasn't the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u192	No solution could be found for the Fos site.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u193	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u194	The paper industry has experienced a serious recession in the last decade. French production units were severely affected. However, the economic crisis was not the only determining factor: the role of shareholders is predominant. An audit carried out in 2013 at the request of the French Union des industries des cartons, papier et celluloses, COPACEL, indicated that there was no clear gap in competitiveness between France and Germany – the main European producer. On the other hand, according to this study, the nationality of shareholders plays a predominant role: international groups favour the preservation of factories in their countries of origin. However, 60% of the French stationery is owned by international groups. In addition, the French industrial tool is aging and suffers from chronic underinvestment, with shareholders favouring the preservation of their most modern production units. In addition, they often refuse to sell the factories they intend to close. I am thinking of the Arjowiggins stationery, of the Sequana group, which was installed in Wizernes; I am thinking of the UPM group that refused to sell its machine 3 from Grand-Couronne, in Seine-Maritime; I am thinking of the M-Real group whose closed site of Alizay had to be expropriated by the departmental council of the Eure in order to allow its resale to the Double A group. In my constituency, the Swedish Essity group is about to close its plant in Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray, which has not been the subject of any major investment since its acquisition. It employs 150 employees. What counter-strategy does the state intend to adopt in the face of this sterilization of the production tool?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u195	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u196	Mr President, as you have noted, there have been many corporate restructurings in the paper industry in recent years. But there are also development projects, which are submitted to the Ministry of Economy and which we are trying to support. In particular, there are new opportunities in the packaging and recycling sectors: business transfers are possible. But this sector, it is true, has suffered significant overcapacity on a European scale. It was necessary to adapt to this reality of the market.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u197	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u198	Madam Secretary of State, a former judge at the commercial court in Saint-Omer, I no longer have the number of businesses and industries that I have seen in difficulty. As you know, we are suffering from a major lack of competitiveness, particularly in industrial matters. This is due, among other things, to too restrictive taxation: social contribution of solidarity of companies, contribution on the added value of companies, contribution on business land, environmental taxes... Today, there are no fewer than 250 levies on French companies before they have achieved their first euro profit. The result is an important competitive differential with our European neighbours, particularly Germans. This is a problem that particularly affects me as a Member of Parliament for Pas-de-Calais, a department that has been heavily affected by deindustrialisation over the last thirty years. I want to thank the Government for taking the matter up. Much has already been done to revive the industry: the Labour Ordinances, the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth or the transformation of the CICE into a relief of burdens are encouraging measures that go in the right direction. We are beginning to feel the effects: so, Arc France, in my constituency, will soon be putting a new oven into service. You are also welcome to come and inaugurate it. Progress has therefore been made, but we can go further. The Minister of the Economy, Bruno Le Maire, declared this at the inauguration of the Global Industrie in Villepinte. On this occasion, he announced that he was thinking about reducing production taxes, stressing that they still weigh too heavily on French industry. Can you be more explicit and specify when the conclusions of this reflection will be made public?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u199	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u200	In 2017, the Government took ambitious tax measures to increase employment and investment, particularly in industry: the CICE was transformed into a reduction in long-term social contributions; A significant reduction in the corporate tax rate was decided to bring it down to the European average of 25% by 2022. We are currently working on a French particularity: the levies registered in charge of operations which weigh on the cost of production. These levies, which are much higher in France than in other countries, are very detrimental to industry and sectors with significant assets. They also apply to businesses that are unprofitable. The main levies on production costs have a strong local component: business value added tax, property tax on buildings, business property tax, to name but a few. Some figures show a difference of around EUR 70 billion between France and Germany for this type of levy. A working group within the National Industry Council is responsible for carrying out a precise picture of taxes on production and measuring their impact on the competitiveness of enterprises. It is chaired by Yves Dubief, President of the Union of Textile Industries, and Jacques Le Pape, Inspector General of Finance. In particular, it should compare the situation of companies located in France with those of companies located in other similar countries and analyse the impact of each levy on growth and employment. The first conclusions of the working group, which will carry out a diagnosis, are expected for the Executive Committee of the National Industry Council, which will take place on May 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u201	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u202	The Eure, the department in which my constituency is located, is a territory conducive to industrial development, despite its very rural character, due to its geographical position between the francilian market and the Norman ports, a dense fabric of efficient SMEs and an economic landscape structured around channels of excellence such as chemistry, pharmacy, cosmetics, aeronautics and space, automobiles and electrical and electronic constructions. Nearly one in three employees work in industry, compared to one in five in France. While a department such as the Eure has significant resources, industries face certain difficulties that prevent them from further developing, including the recruitment of staff, including qualified staff. This raises a number of questions relating to the training, mobility or attractiveness of rural areas. For example, local industrialists complain about a lack of knowledge among young people and industry teachers. It is essential to raise awareness of these professions by organizing training courses based on industries, particularly in rural areas. The difficulties of hiring – different from those mentioned by Pierre Dharréville since the problem lies in the lack of candidates to fill jobs – are more closely related to the question of the synergy of actors within living and employment areas. Support for industrial momentum involves the coordination of all local actors in economic and social development. From government to business, universities and competitiveness clusters, cooperation is an essential condition for success. Madam Secretary of State, how can the trades in the industry recover their reputation, particularly in rural areas? How can we help industrialists in their recruitment?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u203	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u204	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u205	Madam Member, I share your analysis. I am convinced that coherence between different public policies is necessary so that the development of industry in rural areas is not hampered by the difficulty of attracting labour and finding skills, especially among qualified managers and technicians. This is all the more crucial since industrial jobs in rural areas are very diverse: they concern agri-food, cosmetics, footwear, textiles, leather, etc. It is therefore necessary to improve the knowledge of the trades in industry. Industry Week was the occasion for a strong mobilization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, but also within the education sectors to raise awareness of these professions. I went to salons that promote these trades to college students. There is also a need to work on mobility, since difficulties in recruiting companies can be explained by the location of the positions to be filled. This is often a brake on candidates. Several measures are intended to remove obstacles to mobility: as part of the apprenticeship reform, support for the licensing of major apprentices; investments in boarding schools in vocational high schools. They must provide young people in rural areas, close to home, with technical training that can feed the industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u206	Mrs Anne-France Brunet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u207	In accordance with the promises of the President of the Republic and France's climate commitments, the Government has taken the decision to stop the production of electricity from coal-fired power plants by 2022. The Cordemais power plant, located in my constituency, will soon stop producing electricity from this fuel and is currently experimenting with a biomass-combustion energy generation system. I note from my various meetings with the actors concerned that, even if this arrangement proves satisfactory, not all jobs can be maintained. I therefore wonder whether, in the context of ecological transition contracts, an incentive industrial policy can be developed in order to attract new industries to the territories concerned, and why not those working on the production of green energy. Does the Government intend to introduce incentives to facilitate the establishment of employment-providing industrial structures as a priority in the territories affected by the closure of coal plants and with an ecological transition contract?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u208	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u209	The closure of coal-fired power plants is scheduled for 2022. The Government has committed itself to this within the framework of the climate plan. France currently has four coal-fired power plants, representing 3 gigawatts of capacity. We are aware of the absolute need to take into account the situation of all those who are directly or indirectly affected by closures. A new tool has been put in place – the green transition contract you mentioned – to address these issues. The Government is convinced that this new tool will enable us to adopt a comprehensive approach to ecological transition that reconciles environmental, social and economic approaches by placing employment at the heart of our strategy. Environmental transition contracts will involve all stakeholders – the state and local and regional authorities, as well as companies – to best support the employees and territories concerned. For each contract, we want to identify a group of coherent actions that create a real drive effect. With regard to funding, we will put in place a one-stop-shop approach to facilitate the implementation of local initiatives. It will be the responsibility of the State to mobilise all common law appropriations, with priority being given to the territories covered by an ecological transition contract. Potential funding is more than EUR 15 billion available. A specific team will be mobilised to activate these inter-ministerial funding and simplify the administrative procedures of local actors. Finally, in order to give communities visibility and enable them to mobilize public funding on a multi-year basis, contracts will be concluded for a minimum period of three to four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u210	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u211	We all welcome the energy that the Government as a whole is making to transform learning. As we know, learning is a way of excellence: 70% of apprentices get a job seven months after the end of their apprenticeship. However, only 7% of 16-25 year olds are apprentices in France, while 16% in Germany and up to 40% in Austria. Learning deserves recognition by young people, their families and businesses as a path of excellence and future. According to a survey conducted by the Ministry of National Education, 57 per cent of enterprises employing an apprentice hire another apprentice within two years; Nearly 75% of them consider that the cost of learning is offset by its added value. Fifty-six per cent of companies that sign apprenticeship contracts have between one and four employees, 19 per cent between ten and fifty employees, 17 per cent more than 250 employees, but only 9 per cent are intermediate companies, particularly those in my constituency of Lower Rhine. The complexity of the apprenticeship system discourages apprentices, training centres and businesses. In addition, the duration of apprenticeship contracts is too rigid. In the learning transformation plan presented on 9 February, the Government proposes a single aid for businesses. The remainder for the company employing a 25-year-old will be reduced by EUR 100 per month. This aid will be paid by the State and distributed by the regions, which may abound if they so wish. I would like to know what other levers you have in order to encourage intermediary companies to pass on their know-how and skills and therefore to invest in the field of accompaniment and training through apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u212	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u213	We agree that the number of apprentices in SMEs is now insufficient. This capital is sorely lacking for the development of our industrial enterprises. We wish to remedy this situation and rehabilitate learning through concrete measures. In the future draft law on the freedom to choose one's professional future, it is foreseen that the employment aid will be targeted at TPEs and SMEs, and at the level of baccalaureate and pre-bac, which will encourage the development of apprenticeships. The regulations on working conditions will be reviewed in order to facilitate the integration of minor apprentices into the enterprise, for example in the building. The adaptations may concern schedules in order to remove the constraints on recruitment. In addition, the apprenticeship will be open until the age of 30. Contracts can start at any time of the year – so far they were aligned with the school year. These flexibilities will make the curriculum much more attractive for young people and simplify the conditions of employment for businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u214	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u215	Madam Secretary of State, on the initiative of the Committee of Inquiry into State Decisions on Industrial Policy, of which I am a member, I held a workshop in my constituency on 12 March to take stock of the state of the industrial sector in the High Pyrénées. The entire local industrial landscape was represented around the table, including Alstom Tarbes' director, who employs 600 employees. This reflection is part of a complicated context marked by the deindustrialisation of our country. As you know, some companies in the territory, such as Vallourec and Imerys, are currently facing difficulties, and Alstom is evolving in a climate of uncertainty, a source of concern for employees. French industry lost 530,000 jobs between 2006 and 2015, and the landscape is similar in the Hautes-Pyrénées, where more than 7,000 jobs have disappeared in 30 years. However, I believe that we have reason to remain optimistic: many French territories are marked by a strong industrial culture and are full of forces, especially human ones, ready to build the industry of tomorrow. In order to do so, however, some blockages must be overcome, particularly in the area of innovation. I would like to draw your attention to this point. In fact, in my territory, I felt a real demand from the State for assistance and support on three fronts: in the approach to intellectual property; access to R & D aid in the face of the burden and costs of administrative procedures; in the Council for the diversification of activities. On February 17th, a number of measures were announced, which should be included in the bill for an action plan for business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE. One is to facilitate innovation through the Innovation and Industry Fund. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, enlighten us on this measure and reassure us of the effectiveness of its deployment in the most remote territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u216	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u217	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question on innovation and the territories. Bpifrance and the National Institute of Industrial Property, public operators responsible respectively for the management of innovation aid and the protection of industrial property, have a territorial network closest to the wealth and problems of the regions. They are the preferred interlocutors of SMEs in the regions on innovation issues. Their business managers and their network in contact with businesses and ecosystems are a guarantee of the effectiveness of public action and of agnostic support for innovation in all its forms; They start from the needs of companies and provide personalized and long-term support to entrepreneurs in the form of diagnostics or advice. Particular attention is paid to the fluidity and responsiveness of these approaches. On the other hand, a regionalised envelope has been provided for under the future investment programme, in order to involve the regions and the State in supporting innovative enterprises and sectors. Finally, the Innovation and Industry Fund will carry out actions dedicated to so-called "tech" start-ups. In accordance with what was announced by the President of the Republic on 29 March, it will build on Bpifrance and promote the emergence of breaking innovations, indispensable for France's growth and international competitiveness. You mentioned the difficulties in accessing innovation aid for SMEs. I want to assure you that we will ensure that we simplify two important schemes, the research tax credit and the innovation tax credit, and make them more accessible to SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u218	We come to the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u219	Madam Secretary of State, I had been particularly dissatisfied with the answer you gave me about the SAI-Selni company in Revin, during a question-and-answer session to the Government a few months ago in this House. I associate myself with my question, Mrs Bérengère Poletti, Member of Parliament for the Ardennes. Last December, Minister Bruno Le Maire stated in L'Usine Nouvelle magazine: "I believe in France's factories, industry and the workers' world. Madam Secretary of State, the industry is not just Airbus and Thales. The more traditional industry must also be supported, which is not necessarily the case today. In the Ardennes, a land with a strong industrial tradition, we unfortunately do not see these beautiful results that you put forward. We have the feeling of a two-speed industrial France. However, to make an airplane or train, it takes all these small forged or cast parts, especially in the Ardennes department. The French industry is also concerned about all these SMEs with 10 to 200 employees. How many industrial jobs have been lost in the Meuse Valley, in Revin, in Givet or in Bogny-sur-Meuse? Since I was elected, I have repeatedly alerted you to the dramatic situations experienced by employees or former employees of Ardennes Forges in Nouzonville or SAI-Selni in Revin. The sector is in great difficulty, due to Chinese or East European competition, sometimes Turkish or Indian, and commodity prices. On the other hand, the rules applicable to undertakings whose installations are classified are often excessive. I recently met the leaders of Tréfimétaux, in Fromelennes, in the tip of the Ardennes. They told me about the difficulties to come as a result of the change in classification of their company, which specializes in copper processing. Indeed, it seems that Decree No 2017-1595 of 21 November 2017 amending the nomenclature of installations classified for the protection of the environment will lead to heavy technical and administrative constraints for this SME. As you know, Madam Secretary of State, our companies need great normative stability to survive in a very competitive world. This is the sine qua non for their future and, above all, for the jobs they create. What do you intend to do in practice to facilitate the lives of business leaders and employees in these industries, who look forward to simplifying standards?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u220	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u221	You have mentioned many subjects, Mr Cordier. I confirm that we are aware of the importance of industrial settlements for the territories. They are generally important providers of jobs, and it is by boosting our productive fabric that we will support the development of activity in the territories. With regard to the situation of SAI-Selni and its relations with its former owner Electrolux, we have accompanied the company and we remain very attentive to the social treatment that will be implemented in the current circumstances. With regard to simplification, the Government has, very recently, reaffirmed its concern to monitor normative activity and to ensure that the adoption of any new standard is accompanied by the disappearance of two old standards. Within the framework of the National Industry Council, we are working specifically on standards that affect the industry. I have no doubt that its members will take up the subject you mentioned, in order to study ways of making the impact of the measure on industrial players more bearable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u222	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u223	Madam Secretary of State, are you ready for the revolution? I ask this question not because we are in the year of the 50th anniversary of May 68, but because, beyond the results posted – economic recovery, investment by our companies, the end of the destruction of industrial jobs – France remains an industrial drop-out country. The figures are overwhelming: 30% loss of market share in 15 years for exports of industrial products; industrial wealth twice as low as in Germany in GDP points; 73 billion differential with this country for taxes on production, in our disadvantage of course; 40% of investment in robotics is lagging behind neighbouring countries. All this helps to put our last good country of the euro area members for competitiveness. Despite this, I do not believe in fatality or decline. I think our industry has a future, but we still need to help it. So, I repeat, Madam Secretary of State: are you ready for the revolution, for the fourth industrial revolution? The industry of the future; that of the agile plant; digital; the new production methods; that of the dynamics of territory, in the image of what is being done in my constituency, in Saint-Quentin, where we have been fighting since 2013, with Xavier Bertrand and Frédérique Macarez, mayor of the city, for the recognition of robonumérique as an innovative development strategy. We must accept the transformation of the economy and appropriate it. Behind an industrial robot are at least three jobs: that of the person who designs the robot, that of the person who installs it and that of the person who uses it. Madam Secretary of State, will there be a French industry of robonumérique or will we be condemned to see, in our factories, made in Germany or made in Korea? Are you ready, Madam Secretary of State, to speed up the conversion of our industry by supporting my proposal to reintroduce an over-amortization device in favour of investment in digital and robotics, in order to launch the fourth industrial revolution?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u225	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u226	Mr Dive, you are calling for the fourth industrial revolution in France; So we're on the same wavelength. Several projects have been launched. We are actively pursuing the implementation of the Industry Alliance of the Future Roadmap, which obviously includes an important technology component. This is now part of a broader initiative called "French Fab", which aims to bring the entire productive fabric, all the industrial SMEs of our country, into the movement. With this tool, we intend to bring and drive these SMEs on the path of the revolution you want. This revolution will indeed involve major digital and technological transitions. France is lagging behind in robotics and automation, but things are changing and minds are opening up. I meet very many entrepreneurs who have launched investment programmes in this field and are accompanied by Bpifrance and the French Fab dynamic. It seems to me that all this is well on the way. With regard to tax incentives, as you know, we have not chosen the path of over-amortization. We preferred to reduce taxes on business and capital so that it could be invested and be more business-oriented. On the other hand, we are studying the issue of taxes on production.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u227	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u228	Madam Secretary of State, the hyper-electro-intensive industries represent 40,000 direct and indirect jobs in France, spread over twenty production sites. In the Savoy department alone, there are more than 1200 direct jobs, especially in the valleys, with FerroPem, Trimet or Arkema companies. Electricity accounts for more than 30% of the production costs of these industries, which are recognized for their excellence worldwide. It is essential to their manufacturing processes, whether electrolysis, chemical reduction or metallurgical processes. In the context of global competition, their competitiveness depends to a large extent on the price at which they buy electricity, given that the combination of the end of regulated tariffs and market liberalisation has led to a sharp rise in prices. Their Chinese, Canadian or Middle Eastern competitors have not only much cheaper electricity, thanks to the support of their respective governments, but also much more polluting. In order to maintain a competitive electricity price around 25 euros per megawatt hour on average, the Energy Transition Law and the Finance Law for 2016 have validated a system based on three pillars: interruptibility and reduction of the usage rate of the electricity transmission network; carbon compensation; long-term purchase contracts, at 15 years. While the first two pillars are currently being implemented, their sustainability is not ensured under European competition rules. Can you tell us, Madam Secretary of State, what is your position on their validation with the European Commission? I ask you to answer precisely on this point. As regards long-term contracts, which are essential for the investment of these particularly capital-intensive industries, it seems that work is, on the other hand, completely at a standstill. While last December the European Union recognised the relevance of these contracts, at the end of February the European Parliament rejected long-term contracting, which is crucial for the competitiveness of our industries. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] So, Madam Secretary of State, will I ask you to answer precisely this other question: what do you intend to implement, now, in order to defend this type of contract, desired by Emmanuel Macron when he was Minister of the Economy? Is work on fifteen-year contracts among the Government's priorities for the competitiveness of our industries and their jobs?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u229	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u230	Commissioner, the price of energy is indeed an important factor in competitiveness. The Government has continued its efforts since 2014 to make electricity a real factor of competitiveness for the benefit of French industrial enterprises, and in particular hyper-electro-intensive industrialists: creation of the status of an electro-intensive undertaking, exemptions, fixing of a reduced rate of contribution to the public electricity service, compensation for indirect costs, schemes to enhance the flexibility of consumption, discounts on the rate of use of public electricity networks. With regard to the last two points, work has been initiated between the State departments – Directorate-General for Energy and Climate and Directorate-General for Enterprise – and the European Commission to validate the compliance of these measures with EU state aid rules. This work is under way, and I'm sorry I can't give you any certainty. We will know in a few months if these devices are validated.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u231	It all depends on the will of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u232	That is what we are asking for. For the time being, we have not received any particularly alarming signals. This is a necessary step in order to provide industry with the necessary legal certainty and ensure the sustainability of the arrangements. You mentioned the long-term contracts, which are important to provide sufficient visibility and to make the investments necessary for the competitiveness and sustainability of the sites. We want Europe to provide a secure framework for energy-intensive industries by allowing them to conclude such contracts. This is a subject on which we regularly come back to the European bodies. On the occasion of the negotiation of the new European regulation on the internal electricity market, we introduced into the Council's position adopted on 18 December 2017 the possibility of concluding long-term supply contracts in compliance with Community competition rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u233	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u234	Madam Secretary of State, our country has a beautiful industrial history, made of great success, a source of pride and progress for our territories. This legacy is now under threat. Our industry is suffering. However, this degradation is not inevitable. If the share of industry in the national and European economy has been reduced, this certainly does not mean that any ambition must be abandoned. The world economy does not turn its back on industry; New technologies, in particular, are opening up growth prospects. But the competition is, and will be, rough. To succeed, our country must mobilize all its strengths and all its competitive advantages. Among them, how can we not mention our electric mix, particularly competitive, clean and modern? The energy orientations taken under the previous quinquennium, which have not been questioned since last June, threaten to contradict this industrial ambition. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, offer us today the guarantee of full compatibility between, on the one hand, your desire to reduce the share of nuclear energy in our electricity mix and, on the other hand, the maintenance of a quality of electricity and of a capacity of the electricity grid essential for the development of electro-intensive industries in our territories? The scenarios, drawn up by TEN, the Electricity Transmission Network, providing for a downward trend in electricity consumption in France, with trajectories of annual domestic electricity consumption by 2035 between 410 and 480 terawatt hours, or, at best, the level of 2012, confirm these fears, even greater fears in certain territories particularly sensitive to the presence and quality of electricity, as well as to energy decisions – I am thinking in particular of Fessenheim; If three Alsatian Members are present in the Chamber this evening, it is not fortuitous: it is a territory particularly interested in industrial activity. The TEN scenarios are not compatible with the ambition of developing and reindustrialization the national territory. Can you confirm, Madam Secretary of State, that they do not correspond to the Government's ambition in terms of industrial policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u235	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u236	Mr President, I do not really understand your question. The debate you are talking about is not yet open: it will take place in the context of the revision of the multiannual energy programming, the PPE, which will be discussed in the coming months. [[Mr. Jimmy Pahun applauds]] As you know, the Government has assumed its responsibilities with regard to the nuclear reduction path: the one that was posted was considered unrealistic and the subject has been reopened; the various options and scenarios will be put on the table. The examples we have around us show that there are various possible energy mix options and that renewable energies provide solutions that can be very competitive, and even more competitive and interesting, including in industrial countries. There is therefore no reason to fear that the development of renewable energies cannot be made compatible with the maintenance of a strong industry in France. In any case, I do not understand this fear, and I believe that the debate on the PPE will bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u237	You didn't listen to the question. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u238	We turn to questions from the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u239	I am the second of the three Alsatians who, through a skilful programming of the services, will speak afterwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u240	[[Smile]] After that, we're going to the Bretons!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u241	I will address a subject which concerns the city of Strasbourg, namely intellectual property, particularly for small and medium-sized industrial enterprises. We are on the eve of the establishment of the European unitary patent. Strasbourg is a driving force in the field of patents at national and international level, including the Centre for International Studies of Intellectual Property, the European Institute for Enterprise and Intellectual Property and the Office of theoretical and Applied Economy, which specializes in this field. In recent months, in preparation for the arrival of the European patent, we have organized four working meetings with the representatives of these various bodies and those of the National Institute of Industrial Property, in order to draw up proposals concerning the strengthening of French patents, applications for examination, opposition procedures, as well as "flash" patents, which could be more easily accessible to SMEs. Madam Secretary of State, with the aim of encouraging SMEs – particularly industrial SMEs, which are well known in Alsace – to file more patents, do you intend to take the opportunity of presenting the PACTE bill by devoting a part of the text to the question of industrial property? In this case, can we enrich this text with Strasbourg proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u242	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u243	[[Smile]] Mr President, the Strasbourg proposals are always welcome! Innovation is one of the priority themes identified in the Business Growth and Transformation Action Plan. This plan deals not only with the Innovation Fund, but also with innovation protection strategies. In this area, the needs can be quite diverse, depending on the size and situation of the enterprises. As far as industrial property legal tools are concerned, the needs of industrial property are not uniform: some wish to benefit from the shortest possible procedure for the grant of patents, others prefer to date quickly and then have a period before publication in order to adjust their application to the evolution of the market, others prefer a certificate of utility, i.e. an industrial property title whose conditions of filing and issue are more flexible. The PACTE Bill will provide an opportunity to change procedures, providing more flexible and progressive access to patenting for businesses, particularly SMEs and start-ups, and aligning industrial property protection tools with what exists internationally. Last January, we initiated a consultation on a number of avenues, which, I confirm, will lead to proposals in the context of this bill, which will be introduced shortly. The challenge is to encourage companies to make the choice to protect themselves in France, by facilitating the process of obtaining intellectual property titles, while strengthening their confidence in the protection offered by these titles, thanks to increased legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u244	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u245	[[Smile]] No surprise, Madam Secretary of State: I am indeed the third Alsatian who had been announced in this series of questions! However, I will take you to the south of Alsace, which is also extremely welcoming. France entered the post-Fessenheim phase. On 19 January, Sébastien Lecornu launched from Colmar prefecture the process of closing and reconversion of the site. As we have seen since the beginning of the year, the Government has shown great will to create a strong dynamic, thus ending a period of uncertainty of seven years. Indeed, since the announcement of the closure of the plant in 2011, not a minister had come to provide precise answers. Employees, subcontractors, political and economic actors were all left in ignorance, left to themselves because of the guilty attitude and, to say the least, disrespectful of the government of the time. It is now a matter of speeding up and catching up on lost time. Action is needed to secure jobs: 850 EDF employees and 5000 indirect or induced jobs. Action must be taken to transform this territory, Europe's gateway, into a pioneer territory in renewable energy, industrial sectors for the future, innovative investment – not to mention Franco-German cooperation. Through environmental transition contracts, the Government is committed to providing political, technical and financial support to support our territories. To help you, you can count on reliable and highly motivated partners – they are all the more so since they were initially mostly opposed to the closure of the site. Together with local authorities and other stakeholders in the Territory, we are ready to make Haut-Rhin the first French department with 100 per cent renewable energy and Fessenheim the showcase of the Government's new industrial strategy. This requires a clear framework, a clear strategic vision, methods with shared criteria, an international strategy and, above all, significant financial resources. Madam Secretary of State, on the eve of the second steering committee being held on site, expectations are high. Could you tell us more about the means envisaged and the ways in which the Government intends to succeed in the post-Fessenheim era?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u246	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u247	Mr. Deputy, the President of the Republic urged the Government to build an exemplary future project for the Fessenheim territory, based on the economic conversion of the territory to sustainable and promising activities. The State will concentrate its resources on an area ranging from Colmar to Mulhouse, and even Fribourg, in order to promote sustained economic development, in collaboration with the Regional Council and with French and German economic development actors. It is committed to the establishment of a processing unit for service providers and subcontractors as of now. Beyond this, Business France will bring its expertise in territorial marketing and corporate targeting. You have noted: the steering committee set up on 19 January by Sébastien Lecornu will oversee these actions in an extremely energetic way. The departmental council has proposed to make the energy transition the main axis of development of the territory, with actions for the development of renewable energies, energy storage or thermal renovation of buildings. The Government intends to support this approach. He recently announced the launch of a specific PV tender on the expanded territory around the power plant, making it a national pioneer of the energy transition. The Government would go beyond the usual practices and was prepared to notify a special regime to the European Commission. Beyond this, the Territory has the ability to position itself among the leaders of the transition to a circular economy. The Government is currently promoting this paradigm shift in the development of the road map for the circular economy. Work on this roadmap, as foreseen in the Climate Plan, was launched last October; They aim to define the flight plan for the quinquennium, which will achieve the objectives set by the President of the Republic, in particular the division by two of the landfill of waste and the recycling of 100% of plastic materials. The Territory must embrace these objectives, especially since its recycling performance is above the national average. It can therefore capitalize on this asset.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u248	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u249	The report of the Council of Ministers on 22 November shows the Government's willingness to work towards a genuine European industrial policy based on market unification and the development of European champions, but also on commercial reciprocity. The global economic and commercial environment, marked by the protectionist ambitions of the United States and the dynamism of Chinese investment in Europe, urges this. In this tense and uncertain context, French industrial interests can only be effectively defended through the establishment of a comprehensive, robust and long-term European strategy. It will serve growth and jobs. Indeed, employment is at the heart of our debate tonight, as it is at the heart of any economic policy. The recent conclusions of the Council of the European Union on this subject represent a further step towards defining the industrial strategy that we wish to see. It mentions innovation, investment, digital and global value chains, as well as employment and social standards, the conclusions being comparatively less detailed on these last two points. My question, Madam Secretary of State, is therefore the following: will this comprehensive European industrial strategy, intended by the Government, include an employment component, a job that would be of good quality? In other words, in these negotiations, does France support the harmonisation of social rights at the top and the convergence of working conditions for fair and fair intra-European competition?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u250	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u251	Our European industrial policy strategy is balanced, Mr President. On the one hand, it is based on an ambitious vision for the European industrial sectors, which must benefit from the strengthening of the single market. This requires strong initiatives by France on innovation, foreign investment control, skills, digital technology and support for SMEs. On the other hand, this strategy is based on respect for fair competition between all European industrial players. That is why the President of the Republic has committed himself, at European level, to a review of the law of posted workers. As you know, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union reached a final agreement on Monday, 19 March, on the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. The text limits the duration of the posting to 12 months with a possible extension of six months, and requires that the remuneration in force in the host country be applied to posted workers, in accordance with the principle of "equal work, equal pay at the same place of work". In accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic, France has actively supported this ambitious decision to revise the directive by mobilising several Member States around it: Austria, Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Italy. New European initiatives, such as the creation of a European labour authority, and the implementation of a foundation of social rights should also contribute to a higher convergence of social rights and fairer and more equitable intra-European competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u252	We come to the questions of the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u253	Since the fourth quarter of 2017, and for the first time since 1999, French industry has started to create jobs again. This reflects the resurgence of our industry's activity and performance in the markets, and leads industry to focus more on production difficulties than on demand. They thus face a real problem of hiring, which is likely to get worse in the face of ever more specific technical requirements. How to accept such a situation, while the unemployment rate in France stagnates around 9% and young people are particularly affected, 100,000 of them leaving the school system without a diploma or without a qualification: it is thus 10% of a generation that do not obtain the baccalaureate or the certificate of professional fitness – CAP. On the basis of these findings, the vocational education system needs to be rethought in order to effectively promote job creation in the French industry. Apprenticeship must be developed and encouraged, as it enables young people to be effectively integrated into employment. It also makes it possible to respond more precisely to the needs of enterprises in terms of skilled labour, thus contributing to the competitiveness of enterprises. With just over 412,000 apprentices at the end of 2016, France remains very far away from the training and qualification schemes that, among our European partners, such as Germany, have long made learning a path of excellence. However, the accessibility of the industry's trades through learning is an issue for the dynamism of job creation in this sector over the next few years. It is therefore a matter, in connection with the territories, of involving companies more in the learning system. For training more adapted to the realities of the trades in the company, they must play a more important role in the development of qualification repositories. How can we give companies, the industrial sectors, a more significant place in the definition of training? How can the links between national education and the labour market, particularly industrial enterprises, be strengthened? How can we develop knowledge of the trades of the industry among young people and among school staff? These are concrete questions for the company that receives an apprentice, and these questions are the prerequisite for the success of the apprentice's journey towards sustainable employment. So what steps does the Government intend to take to upgrade learning as a path of excellence for training and access to employment in the industrial sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u254	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u255	You have returned, Mr. Member of Parliament, on a matter that is at the centre of our concerns. While the industry has seen a fairly positive development in recent months, with job creations, net creations of industrial sites in our territory, a level of attractiveness which, in 2017, seems to be recovering and international investors attracted by investment in France, especially in productive sites, the situation remains worrying with regard to the ability of companies to recruit the right skills. In the industry, 41% of recruitment projects are considered difficult, with a particularly tense situation in certain occupations: I am thinking of roofers, mechanics, electronicians, cauldrons-tôliers, tracers, skilled maintenance workers, and research and development study managers. The level of difficulty in these occupations is more than 50%, and in some cases it is even 80%. Such a difficulty in recruitment is particularly disturbing in the light of an unemployment rate which still stands at around 9%. Under these circumstances, the Government has indeed identified learning as a central topic and a key reform to enable our industry to benefit from the economic rebound. As you pointed out, industry – and professionals in general – need to be given more weight in defining these courses. From this point of view, the decision to entrust the branches with the task of drawing up the framework for the activities and competences of the diplomas should be such as to reassure you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u256	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u257	French industrial policy is ill. For a long time now, politicians on all sides have abandoned it, or at least have not done enough to accompany it. I will take a specific and concrete example, Madam Secretary of State. In my department of Vosges, the textile industry generates jobs and added value for the whole country; But this industrial activity is weakened, because it is caught between the hammer and the anvil. The hammer is international competition, not only because the charges and taxes are higher in France than in our European neighbours, but also because Europe itself, supposed to protect, grants countries such as Pakistan a system of generalized preferences, known as GSP plus, which undermines the whole textile industry. Then comes the anvil: it does not move, it is internal; It is symbolized by large-scale distribution, which strangles our industry by refusing it any price increases induced by the rise in raw materials, thereby preventing it from generating the necessary margins for its investments, its development and the recruitment of a quality French workforce. First of all, Madam Secretary of State, I invite you to the Vosges...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u258	[[Smile]] What a chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u259	...to visit these companies, flagships of the French industry. But I also ask you, and above all, what the Government intends to do on these specific points, in the face of these two problems which concern the whole sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u260	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u261	The Vosges textile sector is crucial for the French textile sector as a whole; But, as you pointed out, honourable Member, this sector is facing increased competition, particularly from low-cost countries. From our point of view, the solution, to maintain this line of excellence anchored in France, lies in a positioning on quality standards and differentiation. It is in this spirit that we support the French industry of excellence, and its diversification in household linen, footwear, uniforms and technical textiles. We intend to accompany this transformation and positioning on quality through the labels, in particular "France terre textile" in the Vosges. Outstanding companies, such as Garnier-Thiebaut for household linen and Tricotage des Vosges, among others, benefit from this. These fine examples show that quality and technological innovations allow for development, including international development. The label "Vosges terre textile" is now the guarantor of production in the Vosges, respecting the historical know-how of the department. In the face of the success of this label, which benefits twenty-four companies in the department, the increase in profitability of companies, the increase in competitiveness and the structuring of the sector, the State supported in 2013 to the tune of 150000 euros, the declination of this label in various French territories. We must continue to support this sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u262	We come to the questions of the New Left Group. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u263	We have been sensitive to the recent announcements and the voluntarism displayed by the President of the Republic so that France does not miss the artificial intelligence train. On every level, we measure how critical the strategic challenge of innovation will be for the economic future of our country, and we fully support the effort that has been made. However, to continue to be at the forefront and to offer jobs and opportunities, France, as a major economic power, must rely on all its know-how, including the most historical. Artificial intelligence, promising as it is, cannot develop, prosper and even live without a powerful and dynamic industry. Our country, which has built its influence on a solid economic base, has suffered the shock of deindustrialisation over the past forty years. Despite the excellence of the fields, the know-how of women and men, the capacity for innovation and the commitment of the territories, we have lost some of our jobs in a liberalized global market. Today, we must reaffirm our determination to maintain our industrial tool, but also to develop it and, for that, to affirm a political vision carried by a strategist and committed State, which is fighting for the maintenance of employment. Like Whirlpool, which will be producing its dryers in Poland, such as Caterpillar, whose gearbox assembly plant left Arras for Northern Ireland, General Electric will relocate its business. When asked in the Committee on Economic Affairs about the future of the Alstom branch, the Minister of Economy replied that "the state has neither the financial means nor the economic competence nor the technological expertise to lead the big industrial giants". It is, however, up to the State to act, as a relay; It has the means, in particular legal ones, to create safeguards and to offer solid guarantees for employment and a genuine industrial strategy at national level. The Committee of Inquiry into State Decisions on Industrial Policy, of which I am a member, has highlighted this on several occasions. Here too, we must learn from the past. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, clarify what your vision of France's industrial policy is? From innovation to production, would you like to use all the means available to the State to maintain employment in these future sectors, including increasing protection in certain strategic sectors, including hydropower, on which the Minister of Economy and Finance did not reply earlier?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u264	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u265	Madam Member, so much detailing France's industrial strategy in two minutes seems difficult, we can, however, go back to a few points that you mentioned. You first opposed the emphasis on artificial intelligence and the measures to be taken for our industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u266	I have highlighted their complementarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u267	I think these two aspects go hand in hand: the €1.5 billion investment made in five years on artificial intelligence in order to position France at the forefront of leading countries on this type of technology will draw all the innovation and tools our industry needs to modernise, remain competitive and attract the best skills and jobs in France. Investing in artificial intelligence, in the industry of the future is not investment in industries considered traditional...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u268	That's not what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u269	...because all these industries will have to change. It is clear that they need to be given the means to access these digital transformation tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u270	You're not answering the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u271	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u272	I am a member of parliament for Thiérache and Vermandois, in the Hauts-de-France, an agricultural and industrial land which unfortunately experienced the great industrial textile crisis between the 1970s and 2012, the date of the closure of the establishments Noiret, a spinning and weaving that made uniforms for the civil and military forces. Since the crisis had spread over time, the Territory had not benefited from specific revitalization programmes, which was a pity. We have, however, a beautiful industry on our territory, with real flowers like Tereos, Nestlé, Materne, Le Creuset, Givenchy or West Pharmaceutical Services. These companies enjoy themselves well in our rural areas, because of the culture of enterprise, the attachment of employees, probably stronger than elsewhere to their production tool and, perhaps, a quality of life, which is not so bad. However, this is not enough: companies are lacking in our territory and we would naturally like to see more activity and entities set up there. Moreover, in recent years we have seen a phenomenon of metropolization, which we do not understand well. The companies are indeed settling around the biggest cities, abandoning our ruralness, while this one, as I said, has certain advantages. Their installation creates problems of transport, housing and security. To compensate for the lack of attractiveness of our territories, we would need more incentive mechanisms. They exist, such as rural regeneration zones – ZRR –, regional aid zones – AFR – but these are not always well adapted. Thus, a territory will only be able to benefit from the ZRR scheme if it is located exactly in the area. These zone effects are very damaging. Proximity to free zones can also pose problems of competitiveness between very close territories. We therefore need a more incentive mechanism, which leverages these industries and economies in general. What does the Government intend to do in that regard? Madam Secretary of State, do you intend to improve these arrangements or modify them, to attract activity in rural areas that are already in difficulty?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u273	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u274	Mr President, thank you for your question. Like others before you, you highlight the subject of industry in the territories and the difficulty of attracting or maintaining industries in landlocked or isolated areas. I also agree with your analysis of zoning systems, which lead to local imbalance effects, which are difficult to justify and sometimes manage. This does not always seem to us to be the right solution. We favour a cross-cutting approach to industry, with the question of resources, the attractiveness of young people, investors, who, as we have seen, are sometimes ready to consider new settlements in our territories. We also favour better digital coverage of the territories,...
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u275	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u276	... since we know that access to these digital networks becomes crucial to maintaining activity or for facilities to materialize. It is in this spirit that the Government has greatly accelerated investment, both on mobile and on the high-speed Internet, so that these isolated areas can provide industrial and economic activities with the means they need.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u277	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u278	Madam Secretary of State, on February 2, Fincantieri signed the acquisition of 50% of the capital of STX, the former Atlantic Buildings, for EUR 59.7 million. After partial nationalisation, the State agreed to lend 1% to the Italian shipowner, guaranteeing control of the company. But the agreement includes another clause, the rapprochement of Fincantieri and Naval Group, the former DCNS. Yet this rapprochement had been prevented twice during the previous quinquennium by the Ministry of Defence, which feared that an unbalanced partnership would lead to the brader Naval Group. Since September 2017, however, reconciliation is apparently no longer a problem. The French and Italian governments have set up working groups at work for months. But, of this process, nothing substantial filters. The risk of France once again disposing of strategic industrial capabilities is like a spectre. The strategic term is particularly suitable since, without Naval Group, no deterrent force, no nuclear submarine attack, no aircraft carriers, no nuclear submarine launcher, including to allow Emmanuel Macron to make his com'. Although national representation is concerned and asking for clarification, it is constantly opposed to a communication based on the myth of winning co-operations. But it is a little quick to forget that we are scalded and that recent industrial history has more fiascos than success stories. In any event, the work carried out in complete discretion in recent months has now lapsed: since Sunday, 4 March, the Italian government has no longer had the legitimacy to bring this project to fruition. This gives you the opportunity to act, finally, with transparency, to inform the national representation of your intentions and, if necessary, to involve it in your work. In short, Madam Secretary of State, what do you intend to do with Naval Group?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u279	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u280	Mr President, you seem to fear that the rapprochement between Naval Group and Fincantieri will lead to a loss of sovereignty. I would like to reassure you on this point. It's an alliance, not a merger. This alliance is driven by a strong political will, shared by France and Italy. The aim is to gradually build a European shipbuilding leader, able to cope with the growing competition from new entrants, especially Asian, and to maintain technical and innovation capabilities for the benefit of both French-Italian state customers and exports.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u281	It's Alstom!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u282	The work undertaken since the autumn confirms the relevance of a Franco-Italian rapprochement in the defence naval, in particular on the basis of a costing of synergies and the possibility of pooling Franco-Italian programmes in the field of military surface vessels. Again, it is a matter of pooling programmes on which there is a convergence of interests between the two marines, not of merging industrial resources. This alliance, at least in the announcements scheduled for June, will not contain any capital elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u283	You have the floor again, Mr Lachaud, for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u284	Madam Secretary of State, Dunkirk's LNG terminal is on sale. It took four years to build it. In operation since January 2017 alone, barely more than a year, it has cost 1.2 billion euros. EDF is a majority shareholder with 65% of the capital. And, as I recall, the state is a majority shareholder of EDF, with 83% of the capital. It is therefore once again the heritage of France that passes into the hands of the private sector. This time, the Belgian Fluxys picks up the bet. EDF disposes of all its assets; Total follows by transferring 10% of the capital. Yet the Dunkirk site is clearly strategic. It covers 20% of France's and Belgium's natural gas needs. While it is obvious that fossil resources will have to be stopped, everyone knows that natural gas is infinitely less polluting than oil. How can we claim to be embarking on the ecological transition that France and the world need by abandoning the necessary infrastructure? How can we pretend to be the master of our destiny when we let foreign companies take over them? But this terminal is not only strategic: it is profitable, since, in a year, it has generated a gross operating surplus of 140 million euros. Of course, you will justify the sale by stating that, in the market, this kind of profit is really not attractive. But then, it's hard to believe that we could find a buyer so easily. Is Fluxys naive? Would it be that by selling we make a good deal? It would be time to stop serving us the same things: no, the state is not meant to make profits, to manage its assets as a trader or to speculate on the energy market. Nor is it intended to invest billions in order to finally be trodden by the first company to come. As for your last argument that EDF must be de-indebted, the great deal! Once again, the Liberals made the debts and took advantage of them to justify the great warehousing. It should also be remembered that this debt is explained by the nuclear sector, not by gas. For those who only think by numbers, that's still a reason to get out of it. Once all these reasons have been examined, Madam Secretary of State, how can you justify that the State, through EDF, renounces a strategic and job-providing facility?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u285	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u286	Mr President, you are concerned about EDF's divestiture of the Dunkirk LNG terminal. However, this did not seem to us to be a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u287	How amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u288	Indeed, as you have indicated, this divestment takes place, as part of EDF's management of its assets. EDF has a heavy investment programme in renewable energy and nuclear energy. So he has choices to make. These choices were made, with the transfer of the terminal. This transfer did not seem to reduce our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u289	It's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u290	Since gas transport is a regulated activity, it is not a sale that endangers France's gas supply.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u291	We conclude with a question by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, in the name of the non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u292	Madam Secretary of State, often, too often, reality, the "rugious reality" as Rimbaud said, comes to deny the most roused of speeches, the most worked elements of language. Not a minister's speech, without a reference to rural France, to France, the medium-sized cities that we should finally care about. Elected from that France, I ended up believing, by persuading myself that our rulers had taken the measure of the sense of abandonment of this marginalised, ringardized France. What a naivety of me! Let me tell you what happens to me in Béziers. A few weeks ago, we learn, through an indiscretion of its employees, that EDF Energies Nouvelles simply decided to leave our territory and move to Montpellier. This move represents a loss of 200 jobs. Two hundred jobs is not a straw, especially when they come in addition to the closure of I do not know how many services of the State which, too, prefer the big city of Montpellier! EDF Energies nouvelles did not even bother to inform the local elected officials, to ask us if we had any proposals to make or land to offer. Mr. Cahuzac, the CEO – for a few more days – of this 100% EDF subsidiary, has better things to do than talk to provincials like us; He doesn't even want to meet us. Madam Secretary of State, EDF is the property of the State at 83.5%, that is, the property of the French. We deserve better than that sufficiency, than that arrogance. A public enterprise is not a company like any other. She has obligations. Profit cannot be its only goal, its only compass. Madam Secretary of State, France where I live needs to be listened to, needs consideration. What do you intend to do so that Mr Cahuzac – or his successor – will at last pay attention to us?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u293	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u294	Madam Member, I confess that I am not aware of the details of the situation you are talking about, which is very local, since it is, if I have understood correctly, a move from Béziers to Montpellier – and, presumably, an optimization by EDF Energies nouvelles of its organisation in the territory. As EDF's shareholder, we must of course be attentive to the social and accompanying conditions in which this type of transaction is carried out. I can assure you that we will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u295	The question session on industrial policy and employment is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-04-04-O1177.u296	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Discussion of the proposal for a law on the tax and social exemption from overtime; Discussion of the bill to increase purchasing power through the creation of a fuel ticket; Discussion of the bill to assign the combatant's card to soldiers hired in Algeria after the Evian Accords, from 2 July 1962 until 1 July 1964; Discussion of the bill, passed by the Senate, on the reception of Travellers and the fight against illegal facilities. The meeting is adjourned.
