ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to create a similar right for online news publishers (No. 849, 910).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u2	In the general debate, Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister for Culture, the rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge of creating a neighbouring right for publishers and online news service agencies goes far beyond simply recognizing an economic right: it is much more a question of ensuring that the press in our country has the means of genuine independence, and therefore its freedom. Each of us knows how precious this freedom is, and how much democracy cannot endure without the vitality of a rich and diverse press of opinion, a framework for democratic debate. This democratic framework is now being undermined by the emergence of what is commonly known as the GAFAMs – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft – but which bring together more broadly all the online distribution platforms. First, it is undermined by the practice of tax optimisation of these international companies. It is also undermined by the irresponsibility of these actors with regard to the content they broadcast. Finally, it is undermined by the capture of the value that these companies generate by punctuating 80% of the advertising revenues generated by the content produced by publishers and news agencies. These three elements highlight the imbalance that exists between all these actors. As the rapporteur has pointed out, our responsibility as parliamentarians is to bring these new actors into the democratic framework, which involves three elements. The first is, of course, fiscal liability, which requires consent to tax, which is the basis of the democratic contract. A company, whatever it may be, is part of a social and territorial land before which it has a responsibility. Secondly, responsibility is also criminal, and it must be said that everyone is responsible for what he or she says and disseminates. Our House has taken up this matter, and we will have to finish the text that will be presented to us, and we will start discussing it next week in committee. Thirdly, this responsibility cannot be full and complete without the solidarity that must bind all actors in the same sector. This solidarity is first and foremost ensured by fairness and justice, which must define relations between journalists and publishers, on the one hand, and dissemination platforms, on the other. Therefore, as our country fights, with good reason, to force the GAFAMs to submit to tax, and as we are preparing legislation to combat the dissemination of false information, it is essential that our assembly decide on the essential issue of the sharing of value and the rebalancing of relations between platforms and media. We are objected to the fact that the timetable for such an initiative is not relevant, and more precisely that it is not appropriate to act on this matter now, because the European Union is itself debating it and would be – the conditionality is rigorous – about to reach an agreement. We do not fully share this optimism, because the Copyright Directive is constantly being rejected: first in March, then in April, and now in late June, without any guarantee. We do not underestimate at all the efforts of the Ministry of Culture, and especially yours, Madam Minister, to defend France's demands on this matter. We know you are very active – you reminded us this morning – to ensure that the French model, which allows creation in our country to be so dynamic, is shared as much as possible. But we also know that the discussions can be lengthy and laborious, that France has not only allies in this field, and that, moreover, as our colleague Constance Le Grip pointed out yesterday in committee, it is indeed Article 11 of the draft directive, the one which aims to introduce neighbouring law, which is the most controversial. Let us accept that, as things stand, we do not see a drafting that is consensus-based and allows for a quick solution, because the purpose of this bill is also speed, Madam Minister. The rapporteur has mentioned this on several occasions in committee and in this House it is indeed an economic right. To put it into practice is, for publishers and news agencies, to give up a year of turnover, in a particularly tense context. One keeps saying: the national press needs this input to ensure the sustainability of an economic model. Otherwise, his future will be very compromised, and this in the short term. We regret to say that the European directive has very little chance of success by the end of the year. This feeling is not only ours: it is widely shared on all sides of this House and, perhaps more importantly, by the parliamentarians in charge of this issue at European level. It is, in our view, useful to proceed now to the vote on this bill, so that we can act very quickly in the event of a vote by the European Parliament on the copyright directive. To vote now is to give the French Parliament the means to transpose the directive into French law very quickly, as early as the autumn. It is also an opportunity for us, as parliamentarians, to adjust the text to the European conclusions before the second reading. Last but not least, it is a guarantee that, whatever happens, even in the event of a European blockage, our country will be able to legislate quickly to introduce a neighbouring right. As regards the principle of an organisation via a collective management company, this proposal comes after the German and Belgian experiences, whose absence of a collective organisation had prevented the effectiveness of the neighbouring right. We know that this would be an arm of arms, but we also know that the chances of success are infinitely greater if all the actors in the press are united rather than divided. Moreover, let us trust the actors themselves, who now demand this right together, almost unanimously, and who are ready to cooperate. They have spoken repeatedly to encourage Parliament to move forward on this issue. The moment therefore seems particularly favourable for France to defend such a text and send a signal to its neighbours, in particular the most reluctant ones, on its determination. Under no circumstances would negotiations be hindered at European level: on the contrary, it would assure our allies that we are with them in order to reach a favourable outcome quickly. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, by placing this text on the agenda of our Assembly, wished to alert national representatives to the difficult situation of the press in our country. The democratic contract, which is the foundation of our Republic, is based on the guarantees that we are able to bring to pluralism in our country and its free and independent expression. This independence cannot be complete if the content of the French press's productions is beyond their control and does not guarantee them an income which they rightly consider their rightful return. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Consequently, it is up to us, parliamentarians from all sides, who also reflect the expression of our country's various political and opinion sensitivities, to ask ourselves as guarantors of this independence. Yes, the press needs it urgently. Yes, his freedom and independence cannot wait. In this forum that symbolizes the Republic, I would like to say that this bill is like God: you believe it or you don't believe it, but in committee you don't send back.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u4	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today, as part of the day reserved for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, we are considering a bill to create a similar right for publishers of online news services. First of all, I would like to welcome the high quality of the rapporteur's work, which deals with a subject essential for the protection of publishers and news agencies, that of neighbouring law, when negotiations on this subject were launched almost two years ago and are now blocked at European level. Thus, the vote of the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs on the proposal for a directive on this subject was due to take place two months ago. It has finally been postponed, and will only take place in June. The outcome of this vote is now quite uncertain. Similarly, it is not at all certain that the directive is finally adopted by Parliament as a whole before the next European deadlines and, where appropriate, in terms that effectively protect publishers and news agencies and ensure their economic sustainability. Acting at national level today would consolidate our position at European level. This would undoubtedly allow us to effectively protect the media in all their diversity, while maintaining a status quo for another two years would penalize the entire profession. Indeed, the crisis experienced by the media since the advent of the Internet is lasting and profound. While the media have invested heavily in the digital era, they see the wealth generated by the dissemination of information content that they produce almost entirely absorbed by Google and other Facebook. They thus keep the manna linked to the dissemination of journalistic content for them, without yet paying the costs of production, while the search for information is one of the main reasons why people go to a search engine or connect to their Facebook account. This current sharing of value for the benefit of GAFAM threatens the economic viability of print media companies that develop online news sites and online press services. Today, press publishers are not in a position to negotiate with the digital players who impose their conditions in a leonine way, under penalty of de-reference. State Councillor Laurence Franceschini has, at the request of the Conseil supérieur de la propriété littéraire et artistique, issued two reports concluding that it is appropriate to recognize such a neighbouring right for publishers and news agencies. Indeed, what is at stake is the contribution to freedom of the press and its values allowed by the establishment of such a neighbouring right. Protecting and enabling the cost-effectiveness of the publisher's investment through neighbouring law means first of all strengthening the press publisher's capacity to finance and value journalistic work to the best of its value, whether it be community-based or long-term surveys, or the financing of correspondents abroad. This implies an investment in working structures that serve the quality of the content produced by journalists. I am thinking, for example, of data-journalism or news room. These investments, which may represent a significant cost, also guarantee the quality and reliability of the information produced. Moreover, the protection of press publishers under copyright is insufficient in the digital world. The European Commission's impact assessment stresses this: "The exploitation and enforcement of publishing rights are increasingly difficult" for press publishers, for two reasons. First, when dealing with a case before the courts, press publishers must demonstrate a consistent chain of rights, i.e. that all authors have assigned their right to the publisher by allowing him to assert it in court. Second, existing copyright is not sufficient to protect press publications against mass copying, given the conditions for demonstrating copyright infringement. In order to show that an article has been reproduced "in part", the publisher must prove that the extract taken by the aggregator covers a part of the article which must itself be original, since originality is a prerequisite for the protection of a work by copyright. This creates a very large load, if not impossible to bear, in the face of a mass copy. How could a publisher demonstrate that thousands of automatically generated extracts present an original part of the original work? In the face of these procedural difficulties, demonstrating the reproduction within the framework of the neighboring right, which is based on the fixation of a work, would be easier, since it is sufficient to prove that part of this fixed work was used regardless of its originality. This would make it much easier for the press publisher to act against mass production of its publications. We are therefore clearly in agreement with the principle and direction of this bill, which aims to improve the distribution of value created by publishers and news agencies. It seems all the more relevant to us because, today, digital operators and platforms do not just perform a simple host role, but increasingly play an editorial role by prioritizing and highlighting content. At the same time, the profound transformation and acceleration of the transformation of the media ecosystem and the cultural industry caused by the lack of regulation of the GAFAMs require rapid action. The Government is aware of the need to achieve a new global balance with the GAFAMs and to empower these digital operators and platforms. This is particularly the case in tax matters, but also and above all in editorial matters: we must fight against fake news and hate speech, by a new regulation of the audiovisual sector and, in this case, by means of neighbouring rights. It is therefore entirely relevant and coherent to legislate. The UDI, Action and Independents Group therefore welcomes the consideration of this bill, which is a strong signal to a sector that has invested heavily to adapt to the new technologies without, however, reaping the benefits to which it could legitimately claim. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] The establishment of this right would contribute to the defence, in the digital age, of freedom of the press and its corollary, freedom of expression, guaranteed by our rule of law. Our group will therefore vote on this bill; We hope that it will not be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u6	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Patrick Mignola, and the members of the Committee on Cultural Affairs for their work on this bill. The subject is very technical – because of the financial mechanisms involved – but highly political. The hearings conducted and the report are valuable to our work. This bill to create a similar right for publishers of online news services is welcome in a distorted world. It is time to push the GAFAs, which can and must no longer impose their unfair rules on our cultural industries: platforms and search engines must pay for them when they make press articles available. My colleague George Pau-Langevin – whose absence I ask you to excuse – said in committee: "Our right must evolve because digital has changed the economy of a system: publishers denounce the current situation, and news agencies feel they are being robbed by a capture of the value of their work." And she added: "European bodies [...] seem to be hastening very slowly to find a solution [...] If we don't push them, things are not moving forward. [...] We cannot leave so many creators, journalists and news agencies in great difficulty." Article 1 lays down a principle of prior authorisation before "any reproduction, made available to the public by sale, exchange, rental, or communication to the public of all or part of their productions". This request for authorisation would concern platform operators and service providers that operate "for direct or indirect commercial purposes all or part of the productions" of publishers and news agencies. I understand that this regulation – which seems quite natural – is not suitable for everyone; We often talk about the giants of the Web, but at the moment they are the gods of the Web. The current legal framework, which is not adapted to new uses, needs to be modified to rebalance the value chain and create conditions for fair competition. The idea of a neighbouring right is therefore promising to guarantee the moral and economic rights of artists and performers and other audiovisual producers and undertakings. Similarly, the idea of collective management of this neighbouring right seems relevant. If I do not misjudge some of the objections discussed in committee, such as the risk that such a system would be at the expense of small publishers, I sincerely believe that there is a need for progress in this area. Copyright was not born from Beaumarchais's only revolt against the privileges of the French Comédie, which confiscated the authors' share, or a single law, but from a process of progressive construction. Let us do the same with this neighbouring right and start by adopting this text. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] As you have understood, the New Left Group is fully in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u8	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we all know here the European context which prompted our colleagues in the Democratic and Related Movement Group to put this bill on the agenda of their parliamentary niche: a reform of the 2001 Copyright Directive is lagging behind because of the divergent positions of the Baltic States and northern Europe. But today things seem to be falling apart, since a majority of European states – of which France is a member – seem to have to vote in favour of this directive. The European People's Party, the majority in the European Parliament, has decided internally for neighbouring rights. The visionaries therefore seem to be in the green for this directive to be adopted in the coming months. The proposal for a law that we are studying today would therefore – with a little advance – be a classic transposition of a European directive into French law. This is not the first time that Parliament has had this matter before it. Two bills were tabled – one in 2012 in our chamber, the other in 2016 in the Senate – but they did not have any follow-up. We also understand the difficult financial situation of online press publishers; It is rightly invoked by the signatories of this bill. It was indeed necessary to make very heavy investments in order to switch from paper to digital, without a profitable economic model being found by all. Of course, we know the complete grip of Internet giants, GAFAMs, on the online information and targeted advertising market. We are fighting on a daily basis the threat they pose to the financial freedom, independence and pluralism of the press. GAFAM collects our personal data as soon as we navigate online; They are then sold to advertisers so that they can develop targeted ads according to our consumer profile. You know the saying: "if it's free, it's you the product." This text proposes to introduce a similar right for online press publishers, i.e. a kind of copyright that would allow them to grant permission for the reproduction of their content, but also, and above all, to make such permission available to online platforms and services. The establishment of a commission would thus allow publishers and representatives of the GAFAM to negotiate among themselves the allocation to the former of part of the revenues of the latter; This recipe would then be distributed collectively, along the lines of the broadcast of music on radio. This text sets out exceptions for certain data that may be reproduced without permission, such as quotations, short analyses, press reviews or the provision of current information to the public. It also sets the duration of the property rights of online press publishers and news agencies at twenty years. However, with this proposal, and surely in spite of you, you are only strengthening the power of Internet giants and their grip on the information market. Who tells you, first of all, that the GAFAMs will let themselves be done? All they have to do is refuse the dissemination of information from a press publisher who wishes to charge for its content. Take the very recent example of TF1 and the various French broadcasting platforms: if they are capable of blocking the broadcast, imagine what the world's largest search engine can do! By rushing over this financial manna, press publishers risk seeing their circulation reduced and thus mechanically losing money. Let us recall the example of Germany whose "Lex Google", adopted in 2013, aimed to put in place exactly the same system as this text provides. The result is a decrease in attendance and a loss of several million euros for press publishers. Same law in Spain in 2014, same result: there is no more Google News on the other side of the Pyrenees. And then who can afford to buy the rights to disseminate information, except the GAFAMs? What does an emerging French or European actor weigh in the face of an American mastodon? This is another threat to plurality. You will reply that to many, the press publishers will be stronger to negotiate; but they will only be able to negotiate the weight of their chains, while legitimizing the commodification of our personal data. You are thinking, with this bill, of creating a new source of funding for the online press, by imposing a vague constraint on the GAFAM. But in reality, it is simply a text that could offer the possibility for online press publishers and GAFAMs to share, legally, the revenues from the sale of our personal data to advertisers who will use them to sell targeted products to us. To vote for this text would be to recognize the legitimacy of the collection, compilation and resale of personal data of all internet users and we refuse to do so. There are other solutions to help the online press, such as the total flattening of press aids in order to make them truly fair and efficient. There is also a need for genuine European harmonisation of taxation against GAFAMs; For example, some of the revenue could be donated to online press publishers. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We must regulate and limit the collection of personal data. Under no circumstances should the monetization of citizens' personal data be seen as a way of helping the online press. This would be contrary to the principles of the Internet, but also to the principles of privacy and the independence and plurality of the press.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u10	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I shall start with Edwy Plenel's words: "Digital is a way of finding what was originally the ideal of the press, that is, the popular university. [...] The technological revolution that it represents could be accompanied by a democratic start. But for this to happen, our societies must create an ecosystem that goes with it." This bill has the merit of making us think about the question of the online press – but unfortunately, in our view, it does not go so far as to rethink this ecosystem. It aims to give publishers of online news services a similar right, in order to give them the opportunity to be remunerated when the content they produce is reused online. For the time being, this long-standing demand for some publishers is not at the European level. We welcome the fact that the national representation is taking up the issue of the vampirisation of online press content by the GAFAMs, but this text has some limitations. Facebook and Google have, it is true, become the main intermediaries between the public and information; They thus enjoy enormous political power: between two-thirds and three-quarters of the visitors to the news sites arrive via Google and Facebook. In fact, these platforms and search engines use content that is not theirs to enhance it, but above all to strengthen their economic model without redistributing anything to the creators of value. If nothing is done to protect online publishers, it is obviously the Facebook and Google duopoly that – and we already see the first signs – will make public opinion by relegating content producer and press publisher to the background. But the tool of neighboring law will not allow press publishers to rebalance the balance of power with the GAFAMs. First, such a mechanism would penalize small press publishers, who will not have the same financial means and the same weight as the most recognized publishers to negotiate a fair agreement between them and the GAFAMs. In fact, only the largest online press publishers support this measure: it has been a demand made by major groups for several years. Secondly, it will increase the dependency between info media and online news publishers, with the result, in my view, that the quality of information is impaired. Indeed, "click" remuneration will encourage online press publishers to focus on quantity over quality. It will have a strong impact on the SEO, thus on the access of the largest number to the substantive articles. The examples cited in the book "Information at All Costs" are instructive. Today, half of the information is taken up in less than 25 minutes, one quarter in less than four minutes and 10% in four seconds. Let us imagine the impact of a financial contribution on this phenomenon. This is not an insult to publishers or content producers, as it is obvious that copy-paste is the counterpart of reactivity. One cannot expect a journalist to write more than 2,000 signs from scratch and within five minutes. Finally, this measure has already been applied in other European countries and has unfortunately been ineffective. In Spain, Google has made a unilateral decision to close its Google News service. In Germany, he refused to negotiate with press publishers and applied for free permission to exploit press content. The German press publishers, after a few vain resistances, accepted. In addition, the competition authority and the German judge refused to see Google's attitude as an abuse of a dominant position. For all these reasons, it seems to us that the fight against GAFAM must be carried out in the field of taxation. The GAFAM alone weigh nearly $300 billion on the stock exchange, making it a power comparable to some states. This tax battle would make it possible to envisage better aid to the press, which is more than necessary. The aim is to improve not only the amount of aid but also the distribution of it. We must also demand greater transparency on their practices, whether it is the functioning of algorithms and their services or their practices in respect of competition. The independent online news media union – SPIIL – has proposed to work on the functioning of algorithms. Currently, algorithms that refer to press content take into account audience issues, which de facto favours advertising-funded media. Algorithms must be designed so as not to introduce biases that discriminate against a type of press according to the financing model chosen by the latter. Moreover, the bill never mentions the copyright of journalists or even a possible collective management of the rights collected by press publishers. In a deeply transformed media landscape, all press professionals are calling for a major reform of the press and communication – this will happen – because the current legislative arsenal is no longer adequate. Information must be conceived as a common service, demanding, pluralistic, indispensable to the formation of the judgments of each – political and critical. It is therefore high time to reform the unequal system of public aid to the press, which, still today, does not concern the online press! We believe that the pluralism of information should not be limited by the distinction between media. Moreover, this unequal system gives rise to upuesque situations: today, large private media receive 80 million euros of direct aid per year. Beneficiaries include Mr. Bernard Arnault, President and CEO of LVMH, owner of the first popular daily newspaper, Le Parisien, and the first economic daily, Les Échos. He is the richest Frenchman in the country and the fourth world fortune! We will come back to this in the framework of a large press and information law, but we must also not forget those who use press aid in the context of tax evasion. The GDR Group stresses the urgent need to revive pluralism by prohibiting monopoly situations for financial, industrial and service groups; create a national media council composed of elected representatives, representatives of professionals and users, responsible for ensuring respect for public and national responsibility; and encourage the creation of press cooperatives. An increased representation of employees on boards of directors is also necessary, as is the adaptation of the Bichet law to the digital age by integrating all actors in the press sector. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Faced with the multiplicity of its facets, the challenge of the digital revolution is to seize it, to participate in it and not to suffer it or to run after it. Because of these blind angles, this text, in our view, gives rise to more reservations than it has made any progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u12	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, with the rise of digital technology and the development of digital practices, the paper press has had to adapt to new uses in order to survive. By investing early enough on the Internet, press publishers have realized that digital can be a solution in a sector suffering cruelly from the decline in its revenues. From a totally free consultation of digital content a few years ago, financed in part by advertising revenues, the model has evolved to pay or semi-pay access today. There was a major flaw in the free trade: it did not take into account the fact that the Internet set no limits on the space offered to advertisers. However, the value of advertising has since collapsed and even if the advertising market still exists, it has been captured by the big digital platforms, the famous GAFAMs, which differentiate themselves by an intimate knowledge of each of their consumers. At the same time, the online information chain has seen the emergence of so-called media outlets, those Internet actors that provide organised access to information by acting as intermediaries between information producers and users, be they private or professional. These infomediaries, first and foremost of which are of course several of the GAFAMs, we meet them all every day: by consulting, for example, online information services presenting articles from different press publishers in an automated way; or by publishing and sharing on social networks the latest news or the journalistic survey of the moment. And we do it for free. But, as a rostrum in Le Monde, co-signed by news agencies, pointed out, "in the field of information, gratuitousness is a myth." This information has a cost, it must also have a price. The question is, therefore, to what extent the media help to pay for the production of the information to which they refer. While Google and Facebook have set up pay systems that are undoubtedly a drop of water compared to what is reported by advertisers to value content, other content aggregators do not pay a cent. The account is not there and this spoliation is at the origin of the weakening or even the disappearance of a certain plurality of information. Without regulation, this hyperconcentration represents a real danger for the future, a danger to pluralism and the economy of an entire sector. The creation of a copyright-like right for publishers and news agencies would make it possible to compensate for the loss of value caused by search engines and content aggregators. This new right would also confirm the important role that publishers and news agencies play in investing and contributing to the creation of quality journalistic content. Neighboring law must become an integral part of the business model of the online press. To do this, there are two options available to us today. The first is to support the proposal for a European Commission directive on copyright which is under discussion and in which the creation of a neighbouring right for the benefit of press publishers is acquired. It remains to reach a compromise on some of the modalities, but things are moving forward – I will come back to that in a few moments. The second option is to legislate at national level: this is the subject of this bill. So yes, we can regret the slow pace at European level and think that a small boost from the French Parliament could at the same time make things happen in Europe and force the info media in our country. But, in truth, the adoption of this bill, as it stands and at this very moment, will not give any more strength to the positions defended by France, on the contrary; it will not bend the large digital platforms to which it is difficult to apply national legislation; Finally, once this directive is adopted – and it will be – it will have to be transposed, which will in fact make the provisions that this bill intends to include in our law completely obsolete. You will have understood, if our destination is the same, we disagree both on the road that must be taken in order to achieve it, and on the time at which we must leave. That is why I will defend a motion earlier so that this bill can be referred back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u14	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting today to discuss in open session this bill tabled by the MODEM Group and our colleague Patrick Mignola, after his unfortunate rejection by the Committee on Cultural Affairs – hope that we will be more convincing today! In any event, we will continue to advocate for the creation of a neighbouring right for the benefit of press publishers and news agencies. The press faces many challenges, the least of which is that posed by the digital revolution. In the digital age, the main challenge facing the press is the massive and systematic use of journalistic content by third parties, in particular the famous information aggregators, without prior authorisation and without remuneration. This situation has serious consequences for the audience of press sites, advertising revenues and sales of content. It is therefore the entire architecture of the financing of our press titles by publishers – the production of newspapers and magazines, the training and remuneration of journalists, innovation in new forms of digital distribution – that is being threatened. The Republican Group believes in a free, independent, diversified press, essential for democracy. However, the press is facing increasing difficulties in producing quality information. The key role of a free, independent, pluralistic and economically viable press in the face of the proliferation of false news, massive manipulation of information, misinformation and other threats to our democracy will never be enough. In a media landscape totally revolutionized by the burgeoning burst of digital technology, new players – giants – of the Internet, news aggregators or press watch services capture the value created. For example, in 2017, Facebook and Google captured 90% of the growth in the digital advertising market, leaving nothing but crumbs for press publishers. In this context, the initiative in September 2016 to revise the 2001 European Copyright Directive was welcome. Article 11 of the draft Directive on copyright in the digital single market provides for the creation of a similar right for press publishers in the digital age. The aim is to give the latter the right to license and obtain remuneration for the use of the content they produce, without prejudice to copyright. I repeat, the creation of a neighbouring right for the benefit of press publishers does not in any way threaten the copyright granted to journalists, nor does it restrict freedom of information. In the original version of Article 11 of the revised proposal for a directive on copyright, neighbouring law provided for the possibility for press publishers to prohibit or authorize the reproduction of all or part of their publications for a period of twenty years. As has been said earlier, it must be noted that negotiations within the European bodies are laborious; It's even the least we can say. It should also be recalled, as a member of the European Parliament, that I had the opportunity to sit on the Committee on Legal Affairs, which was seized of the substance, that Article 11 had not spontaneously aroused enthusiasm or received majority consent from the Member States of the Union. Of course, considerable work has been done by each other. The mobilisation of a number of actors and governments in the Member States – we fully acknowledge, Madam Minister, the intensity of your commitment, the quality of your fight and the sincerity with which you are doing it – has begun to move the lines. It now seems more or less certain that the creation of a similar right for press publishers will be maintained in the final version of Article 11 of the European Directive. Let us recall that there were, at the very beginning, temptations to delete this article altogether. But the fight is far from over: the precise drafting of the provisions relating to the creation of this neighbouring right opening up new possibilities for press publishers is still the subject of bitter negotiations. For example, some Member States consider that the content should be protected on the basis of a criterion of originality, while others, notably France, retain a criterion of the size of the extracts. This brings us to the subject, a bit technical but fundamental, of hyperlinks and extracts, the famous snippets. The battle really rages within the various European institutions, both within the Council of Ministers and within the European Parliament, about whether or not to assimilate hyperlinks and extracts. It is on this point that part of the problem comes up, as some previous speakers have pointed out. The authors of the bill we are debating today made a simple choice, not only to explicitly create a neighbouring right, but also to protect the content widely by targeting all or part of the online publications, which includes these famous snippets very clearly. That suits us very well. In their bill, Mr Patrick Mignola and his colleagues also chose a collective management of rights in order to avoid the pitfalls of Spanish and German legislation, which had led press publishers to surrender to Google. This also seems to us to be very welcome. Finally, another very important point, in our view, the present bill opts for a long period of protection, 20 years, as the original version of Article 11 of the proposal for a European directive. Our colleagues in La République are on the move and you, Madam Minister, are asking the following question: why propose a Franco-French legislative framework when interesting European negotiations are under way? Because we are cautious and believe that there is still real uncertainty at the moment as to the precise timing of the European discussions and their outcome, as to the point of arrival and the compromise agreements which could emerge, both on the content of Article 11, which we are debating today, and on other subjects which are just as crucial for our country and for the creative and cultural industries, for example the reduction of the famous value gap in order to better share value. We are careful and vigilant. We have seen increasing delays and lags, both within the European Parliament – the Committee on Legal Affairs having difficulty considering taking action – and within the Council of Ministers and the Committee of Permanent Representatives, COREPER. Some here are optimistic. For our part, we want to be careful and vigilant. We do not believe that the issuing of a strong political signal and a position by the French National Assembly through the vote of Mr Patrick Mignola's bill would be likely to upset or derail European negotiations, to insert a grain of sand into this subtle mechanics – European negotiations of which we, the representatives of the nation, would hardly have to know or should not get too close. On the contrary, we propose, by this strong act, to make known how much we are collectively attached to this issue on many benches in this House. We would clearly like to express our support for France's position and for yourself, Madam Minister. This must also be understood as a willingness to support the many European parliamentarians – from various Member States, including France and Germany, and belonging to different political groups – who are fighting for the creation of this neighbouring right. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] Because we have been educated by experience, we will remain very careful and vigilant about possible last-minute episodes within the European institutions, including the drafting of the famous compromise amendments. They can cause some collateral damage and lead to attenuation or collapse, or even weakening, of the result we want to achieve. That is why we, the Republicans, support this bill and very much wish to vote here today in the French National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u16	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u17	"If it is in the world a sacred property, if it is something that can belong to man, is it not what man creates between heaven and earth, which has no root except in understanding, and which blooms in all hearts. The divine and human laws, the humble laws of common sense, all laws are for us," wrote Honoré de Balzac in 1835, who was to found the Society of People of Letters. The new circumstances we face must lead us to assert forcefully that a digital society cannot be a society without respect for those who create. To say so does not call into question the tremendous opportunity of digital technology. This revolution in usage, sharing, collaboration, and the dissemination of creation and information is having an under-estimated effect on us. She invites us to invent new rules of the game. This is why it seems necessary to create a similar right for publishers of online news services. The news media now affects almost 90% of the French population over 15 years of age. It represents a monthly audience of 46.6 million readers. At the same time, the use of platforms, including social networks, as a gateway to information has clearly become commonplace. Social networks are thus responsible for 45% of the clicks to the major information sites. The growth of the platforms gives publishers an unprecedented opportunity to win new audiences, but the gradual change in the nature of the information circuit complicates the relationship between publishers and readers and clearly raises the question of revenue generation. Above all, it is information content that is a great source of revenue for the platforms as they feed them and have become a criterion for their entry: information has become the second reason for users' access to a social network. The information factory has a cost. Free TV is a myth, as nine presidents of European news agencies pointed out: "At one end of the channel, fulfilling the mission of informing the public costs a lot of money. And to the other, the consumer of this information is worth gold for who values this audience with advertising revenues. In between, some have won. And others, many lost. » Our role is therefore to invent new rules of the game for the press to live. Who else, other than the free and independent press, can report on what is happening in Syria or Yemen? Who else can cover an election campaign without the will to interfere? Who else writes, shows, films, photographs, gives to see and books reading keys to decipher the news? For this, the press needs its own resources. When the major players in digital technology broke in, it was widely demonstrated that the advertising market was not expanding indefinitely. Between 2006 and 2016, the overall turnover remained stable. However, the press experienced a 53% collapse in revenues, while major digital players captured 68% of the digital advertising market in 2016. The risk of the disappearance of press publishers by choking becomes real. It is then all the investments made by the press in the production of content and the guarantee of their independence that would be threatened. For this reason, the European Commission has proposed, in the context of the revision of the Directive, that "Member States shall confer on publishers of press publications [neighbouring rights] for the digital use of their press publications". This protection has already existed since 1993 for cinema, music and audiovisual. The creation of a neighbouring right will guarantee three benefits. The first is to protect press content. The Franceschini report states, moreover, that the proof of "the reproduction within the framework of the neighboring right which is based on the fixation of a work is easier since it is sufficient to prove that part of this fixed work was used independently of its originality". Second benefit: anticipate future developments in the sector. The neighbouring right will not affect digital developments or freedom, a consubstantial principle on the Internet. It is for this reason that the directive is not intended to regulate hyperlinks through neighbouring law. Third benefit: rebalancing relations between media companies and digital platforms. Today, press publishers find themselves legally deprived of the platforms, which become "databanks" that exploit the content they do not create while profiting directly or indirectly without taking on the investment necessary for this journalistic production. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Pierre Cubertafon also applauds]] You recalled, Madam Minister, that this fight was above all a European fight. France has recently won a decisive victory in the debate on the audiovisual media services directive. It is the same logic that must prevail in this case: to allow France to express itself with a powerful voice at European level; ensure that our position is heard; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must not take the risk that our initiatives, as legitimate as they may be, will be counterproductive in the light of the discussions under way. That is why I will support the motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u18	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u19	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are examining today is intended to recognise a similar right for the benefit of online press publishers and news agencies. The aim is to give them the right to license and be paid for the use of their content. This bill is ambitious. It contains a strong proposal for publishers of online press services – its authors have chosen broad protection, targeting all or part of online publications and including snippets, links to press articles accompanied by excerpts or abstracts, which are at the heart of the debates in Brussels – but also for news agencies, which face the same difficulties as publications and have had to make significant investments in digital technology. The digitization of the press has, we know, had many and undeniable beneficial effects for its online readership. The public is now more diverse; 92% of French people consult the general political news media. However, the financial independence of the press and its pluralism are more weakened than ever by the GAFAM, which capture some of the value created – we are all aware of this. In 2016, in France, 2.4 of the €3.5 billion in digital advertising investments were absorbed by Google and Facebook, which alone capture more than two thirds of the growth in the online advertising market. In October 2016, in my report for opinion on the appropriations allocated to the press in the 2017 finance bill, I raised the problem for publishers: "The economic model of the online press is threatened by the capture of its advertising resources by the info media who profit from the distribution of content they do not create and whose production costs they do not assume. I mentioned in particular the "crawlers", who "disseminating press panoramas often without prior authorization or remuneration from publishers and who now generate in France a turnover of about 30 million euros from which publishers do not benefit". I also wrote in this parliamentary report: "at European level, the lines have begun to move". Almost two years later, however, discussions in Brussels remain very complex and delicate around Article 11 of the proposal for a directive on copyright in the digital single market. The balance of forces for the maintenance of this neighbouring right is not acquired. While this right has existed since 1993 for the cultural industries in the film, music and audiovisual sectors, it is not possible to set up it for the press, which thus sees the prospect of short-term protection move away. By October 2016, I had alerted the previous government to the need to take advantage of the shooting window opened by the European Commission. Today, press companies are therefore calling for the creation of a neighbouring right as an indispensable condition for consecrating the intellectual property of their work. They even referred to a "democratic urgency" to intervene on the subject. Without prejudging European debates, I believe that Parliament's adoption of Mr Mignola's bill would send a strong signal on the international stage. It would have an immediate impact on the press economy and provide publishers with legal means to dialogue and negotiate with global platforms, while protecting them. We must act and be a force for proposals on this issue. It is our responsibility as parliamentarians. The text before us therefore goes in the right direction, and must be approached in a trans-partisan spirit. I am also surprised at the opposition in the committee of Members of the La République Group to this text, when the proposed measure was included in Emmanuel Macron's presidential programme. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us show political courage, a spirit of responsibility and common sense on this text. I hope we will meet again to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u20	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, what does this text propose to us? Neither more nor less than creating, inventing a kind of copyright that should be paid for by all those who, on the Internet, today reproduce articles, investigations, portraits, reports, editorials – I will not continue this inventory at the Prévert – that they will retrieve from the online press without a stock exchange. Why not? That Internet mastodones always earn more money by reproducing the work done by others indeed looks like theft. And, having myself created and run an information site – Boulevard Voltaire – I have no reason to find any excuse whatsoever for what is nothing but looting. That's for the principles. A few flats now. For the common of mortals – and I am – "copyright" refers, rhymes with author, i.e. with creation, original production, personal work. However, it must be said or admitted by a former journalist: some, and sometimes even a good, or even a large part of what we read in the press is just a copy of what other journalists have written and what news agencies have broadcast. Anyway, nothing very original. We are far from a craft production that would be similar to what is known as "author's work" and would therefore deserve copyright. When we read the press, we are more often dismayed by the follow-up, the sheep operation, the panurgism of our newspapers than by their originality. This, I believe, is one of the causes of these financial difficulties that are cited in the explanatory memorandum to this bill as justification for the implementation of these "copyrights". Another downside: the planned publisher's authorization system, because unfortunately, who says authorization also says there is a risk of discrimination, not to mention, even more serious, censorship. Yes, if a publisher is granted permission to make his production available to the public, it is the very philosophy of the right to information that is called into question. But all this does not necessarily call into question the text that is being submitted for our approval today. No, what seems more problematic, more questionable to me, is the basic argument, the argument that we are given from the explanatory memorandum and that is supposed to justify this new legislative invention. What is it that we are told? That the press is going wrong, that the press is going through great financial difficulties, that the press is going through difficult hours, that all this has to stop. Usually, at this stage of reasoning, we are entitled to a verse on the almost consubstantial links between the press and democracy, but never to mention, as Benjamin Dormann explains in his book They bought the press, that "because of being so close to power, the press is no longer a credible counter-power. In short, something has to be done, and this is something, so it's going to type in the wallet of internet robbers. Seriously, who can think here, on the benches of this assembly, that this bill is going to bail out a press, a good part of which would be in the balance sheet if she didn't live under infusion of public aid of all kinds? I would like to be told that it is only fair to tax platforms and other "content distributors", as they say poetically. All right. But they don't think we're naive, trying to make us believe that we have a way to cover up many of our media's lack of revenue. Nothing will be settled with this new version of copyright, because if the press goes wrong, it is first of all its responsibility. When we make newspapers that, in the vast majority, only copy each other, when we produce information foreign to a whole part of our people, not to say contemptuous towards them, when we practice a pluralism that boils down to a kind of family reunion from which all those who do not show white feet are excluded, when, far from being the voice of the voiceless – to take up a formula that has now been baffled by having served for counterfeiters – we have become the ventriloquists of the powerful of this world, when we have multiplied the denials, the abandonments, how can we be surprised that we lose readers? That is the real question. And it is not with the few million euros recovered from these new copyrights that our good press will avoid bankruptcy. So yes, I could vote for this bill, but without practicing ostrich politics, head dived in newspapers that, soon, no one will want to read.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u22	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u23	Mr President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this bill concerns an essential pillar of our democracy, dear to our country of human rights: the press, whose pluralism and diversity are now threatened by the Internet. The digital age has completely changed the economic model of the information world. Today, it is the big platforms like Facebook or Google that aspire the bulk of the wealth created, while they do not produce any intellectual content, pay no journalists and do not make any investments to run an editorial room. The real actors of journalistic work, publishers and news agencies see their turnover melt because of the free dispersion of the fruit of their work. We cannot blame the French press for not taking the digital turn. Very quickly, national or regional daily newspapers created websites, natural extensions of paper editions. These free sites, or almost, had to find a financial balance with advertising, but the internet world is complex. It was difficult to predict that these hopes would gradually be disappointed, that advertising resources would quickly be absorbed by Google or other free ad sites. Unfortunately, this trend is progressing, and Web giants are increasing their role as gateways to information and communication every day. The press is very fragile, especially in the region, as in the Jura, where some of the newspapers to which we are very attached, because they constitute a major link of communication between the territories, must consider restructuring and abolishing journalist posts. Without political regulation, we are moving dangerously towards the asphyxiation of the press, therefore towards cultural impoverishment and above all towards the collapse of the fourth power, indispensable in a democracy. There is therefore an urgent need for equitable sharing between the GAFAMs and the media. That was the whole point of the call made last December by nine European news agencies, including the AFP, which calls for an obligation for major digital players to pay the media for the millions of content consulted on their platforms. This is what our colleague from MODEM Patrick Mignola is proposing at national level. This high-quality text underscores our country's commitment and determination to preserve the financial sustainability of publishers and news agencies, and to devote the intellectual property of their work. However, the stakes of digital technology and the power of the GAFAs call not for an isolated action by France, but for a response at the community level. This is the objective of the proposal for a European Directive of September 2016, which aims to confer a similar right on press publishers. As the Minister said, France strongly supports this directive in the context of the ongoing European negotiations, which are likely to succeed: a majority in favour of neighbouring rights is emerging in the European Council and in the Parliament of the European Union. But adopting a law at the national level alone today would have little weight on the web giants established outside our borders. Furthermore, it is in our interest that all European countries speak with one voice to impose on the digital world the ethical and cultural values of a humanist Europe. That is why we will vote on the motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u24	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u25	I have received from Mr Richard Ferrand and members of the La République group a motion for referral to committee tabled pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u26	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as I recalled a few minutes ago, during the general discussion, the establishment of a neighbouring right for the benefit of online news service agencies and publishers is a real necessity in a sector that is now in the midst of change. If the bill before us follows this logic and goes undeniably in the right direction – in committee I was able to see that the Members present were quite unanimous on this subject – the Members of the running Republic Group have nevertheless expressed a number of reservations which have led us to reject all the articles in this text. Today, we see a number of reasons why this motion for referral to committee should be tabled: the existence of a parallel European initiative, the desire not to unnecessarily expose the French press to sanctions by acting alone, the risk of incompatibility between the proposed law before us and the European directive, and the need to exchange views with certain professionals in the sector who are opposed to the establishment of a neighbouring right. First of all, Europe, because it is an issue that can only be resolved globally at European level. I think we are all convinced of this, and in that I agree with the conclusions of the report. The European Commission published in September 2016 a proposal for a directive on copyright in the digital single market. After months and months of procrastination in the Council of the European Union and in the committees of the European Parliament, the discussions are on the way to a successful conclusion and, if it has given rise to in-depth discussions for several months, the principle of a neighbouring right for the benefit of press publishers is now acquired. Discussions on the proposal for a directive are continuing, but the debate is limited to its scope. The Permanent Representatives Committee – COREPER – did not reach an agreement on 28 April last because of differences on two technical points: the exclusion of short extracts from the field of neighbouring law and the duration of this right. However, we are moving towards a blockage exit in the coming weeks. The minister has just confirmed it to us. At the level of the European Parliament, the vote on the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will take place on 20 and 21 June, which will enable the trialogues to follow suit. Whatever is said, there are fewer and fewer uncertainties about the content and the final outcome. Negotiations are entering its final phase. The European Commission is also pleased to see that this proposal for a directive is adopted before the end of its term of office. After two years of discussion, the Directive is therefore likely to be adopted by the end of the year. Mr rapporteur, you would like France to take this national initiative in order to affirm its position, with the aim of seeing certain Member States do the same and thus speed up the adoption of European legislation. The minister recalled earlier: in the past, some Member States – Belgium, Germany or Spain – have already tried to take initiatives to create a national neighbouring right for the benefit of press publishers, but these attempts have at best resulted in derisory concessions from the info media, after lengthy legal battles, at worst through failures. I understand that with this bill, France would have a better framework than anything our neighbours have ever tried; But what, in concrete terms, will prevent Google from dereferring the French press as it has been elsewhere in the past? The company's representatives did not fail to remind us of this in the hearing. The only adequate answer is European, because it is a global response that large media outlets such as US GAFAM or Chinese BATX will not be able to counter. And if the company deploys such intense lobbying against the European Copyright Directive, there is a reason. Furthermore, we are convinced that the vote on such a text today could create interference with the position defended since the beginning of the negotiations by the French authorities in the framework of the European discussions. Worse, this could prove counterproductive by coming to the support of the Member States which have been opposed from the beginning to the establishment of a neighbouring right. It must be understood that, for some of them, the very principle of neighbouring law is alien to their national legislation. This French initiative would reinforce them in the idea that a European provision is not necessary since each Member State has the opportunity to do so in its own corner. However, for the proper and full application of this neighbouring right, I repeat that it is necessary to include it in the European legal framework. It is therefore essential that this provision be kept to the end of the Copyright Directive. By taking this initiative alone, what signal would we give to the countries that defend the same positions as us? What signal would we give to Spain, Portugal, Italy or Germany, with whom we are constantly discussing in order to propose common solutions that can remove the last points of blockade? The word of France can only be heard and respected at European level if we hear and respect our partners. France's position is expressed by the President of the Republic, who, in his address to the European Parliament, recalled the importance of the ongoing work on copyright; by the Minister of Culture in his discussions with her counterparts; by MEPs, such as Jean-Marie Cavada, who have dealt with the subject for several years and who are taking it forward to the European Parliament; Finally, by those who negotiate on our behalf on a daily basis in European bodies. The third reason for tabling this motion for referral to committee is the risk of incompatibility between the text before us and the European directive. This proposal for a law was drafted on the basis of the first proposal for a European directive, which has been substantially amended by its passage to the Council of the European Union and the Parliament, and whose current version is probably still not final. As much as we did not propose an amendment, neither in committee nor in committee today, since we did not think that the adoption of this bill was part of a favourable chronology, we feel it is necessary to re-examine this text in committee and amend it so that it takes account of the final provisions of the directive. If we want to enter into more technical considerations, the report rightly mentions a number of points which still need to be decided. These points, which for many depend on the final version of the directive, will therefore have to incorporate the future transposition. This is the case with the short extracts, the snippets, which, even if France objects, are likely to be subject to a special regime. This is also the case for news agencies and specialized press. On the other hand, in terms of the exercise of rights, the arrangements differ fundamentally between the two texts. Where the proposal for a directive enshrines the existence of an exclusive right for the benefit of publishers, the proposed law severely restricts the exercise of the rights of news agencies through a hybrid mechanism combining legal licensing, extensive collective agreement and collective management made quasi-compulsory. A referral to committee will therefore allow us to address all these issues in depth once they are stabilized at European level. This referral should also be an opportunity to take better account of the arguments and even concerns of some professionals in the sector. News agencies say they are opposed to the principle of collective management. Press publishers such as the Independent Online Information Press Union, which brings together nearly 175 press titles, have told us of their opposition to the creation of a neighbouring right. Journalists' unions fear that some of their copyright will be dispossessed. Thus, if the vast majority of the players in the sector are in favour of the establishment of a neighbouring right, it would be incorrect to say that they are all. And while solidarity is needed today to obtain this neighbouring right, there are still questions about the tensions that may arise tomorrow, when the products are to be allocated financially. We will not wait for the directive to conduct these consultations in parallel. In conclusion, I hear and understand the impatience of publishers and news agencies in the face of what they call an economic and democratic emergency. But while the prospect of an increase in turnover within a very short period of time may seem tempting in a rapidly changing sector, it remains extremely hypothetical, subject to the compatibility of the text with the European Directive, to the grouping and agreement of the various actors within the same collective management body, and above all to the willingness of the information media, if we remain within the strict national framework. While the Members of the LaREM Group fully share the general objective pursued by this bill, we reaffirm that neither its form nor the chronology in which it fits lends themselves to a proper resolution of the problem. The purpose of this motion is not to bury the file. The LaREM Group has tabled it because we believe that, given the prospects emerging at European Union level, the interests of publishers and news agencies will be better preserved with legislation that will be binding on the whole continent. These actors will thus be less vulnerable to possible retaliatory measures on the part of the main information media. The adoption of this motion will make it possible to rework this text in committee in the coming months and adapt it to the final provisions of the directive. We will not start from scratch; We will go back to both this bill and the excellent state of affairs contained in Patrick Mignola's report. Our position is simple: it is better to have a European text perhaps a little longer to arrive and a little less protective, but applicable rather than a French-French text voted faster and very protective, but completely inoperative. Contrary to what I have heard, this postponement is not a bad signal that we send to publishers and news agencies. Let them reassure themselves: our determination is complete so that, in return for the investments they make to create quality content, they will find fair remuneration. On the other hand, whether the digital players who loot this content for free or for derisory remuneration are convinced: it is soon over. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] One last word: in committee, I was able to see that the subject of neighbouring rights for the benefit of publishers and news agencies was almost a consensus. The minister has just proposed that we associate our assembly with the work being done with the European institutions to promote our position. What we are proposing is to seize together this hand stretched by the Government: let us send a delegation from our Assembly to Brussels, let us meet with our European counterparts to show our support for the establishment of this neighbouring right in the European Union and put our weight at the service of the best possible compromise.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u27	We didn't wait for you to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u28	On the motion for referral back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Mignola, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Fannette Charvier's argument and go back to a series of technical elements that were raised by colleagues in the general discussion. We see that everyone has worked on the subject in depth, and whatever the outcome of the vote on the motion to refer it back to committee, it is important that the work continues and that these often technical – and sometimes principled – points are clarified. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Ménard that, although I respect her convictions, the difficulties of the press are not due to the narrowing of her readership, which the digital transition has led precisely to double. The poor quality of the press cannot therefore be denounced; On the contrary, we have to defend it so that it continues to be up to the challenge. I am pleased to see that all the interventions, including that of Fannette Charvier, show that we are all joining, nolens volens, on the commitment to a neighbouring right for publishers and news agencies – a will that the minister recalled this morning. To everyone his vision of this regulation, but what matters is that we share today a form of political intelligence of a very technical subject. Indeed, as Alain David pointed out, the problem is only technical in appearance, because it will touch the depths of several democratic issues in our country. Since we all take different paths to achieve the same objective, it is important to go back to a series of observations, notably that of Sabine Rubin on the application of the scheme in Germany, and that of Elsa Faucillon on Spain. I may have explained this too quickly this morning, but I think it is very important, in preparing the European directive, to stress that if national laws have so far failed in Europe, it is because the principles of enforcement of neighbouring rights did not provide for collective management; and faced with Internet giants, a company, a newspaper, a news agency or a publisher, alone, was obviously in difficulty because of the risk of de-listing. The second point that I believe is fundamental in order to deepen the discussion refers to the issue of small publishers. Is the creation of a neighbouring right likely, tomorrow, to damage small publishers or new players in a market? Precisely not, for the reason that I have just developed by recalling what had happened in the other countries. In the context of collective management, there is by nature a community. When, a few years ago, Google created a fund at the European level, with national translations, there was certainly a collective organisation – Virginie Duby-Muller had at the time made a report on the subject – but only for a few actors, only the big ones. Genuine collective management is aimed at both large and small and represents a way to protect the most fragile and new entrants to the market. As regards the best way to achieve the neighbouring right, to which we aspire very much in this House, far from me the idea of questioning the optimism and commitment of the Government and the Minister on this subject. However, we must be vigilant, and I know, Madam Minister, that you share this view. I have exchanged with a number of European parliamentarians, including Jean-Marie Cavada, and the European Parliament must know – there will be no bad signal or good signal sent, dear colleague Charvier – that France's speech, expressed in this Chamber, is that of supporting all those who defend the creation of a neighbouring right. In the words of Jean-Marie Cavada, "we are never so strong as when we feel supported by our country of origin. " Would we be counterproductive? I don't know. You have to know, from time to time, leave room for doubt. Would the word of France make Europe stronger and more beautiful? Is there only one word to say? Do we need a vote? Do we need a referral back to committee? Everyone will judge. On the other hand, the two subjects raised by Fannette Charvier at the end of his speech, namely agencies and snippets, seem fundamental to me. We find ourselves in this debate on neighbouring rights in this House because we believe in freedom of the press, which requires the protection of its economic independence. But freedom of the press and its economic independence require the integration of agencies, with press publishers, in the recognition of neighbouring law. There is no question, while the path towards the recognition of the neighbouring right of press publishers will be long at European and national level, of resuming the same path of the fighter for news agencies. If there is a fight to be waged, it is the one bringing together publishers and agencies. We also differ on the issue of snippets. We will not be able to accept a form of compromise which, in order to remove the principle of neighbouring law, would attack its content. Nor should we accept that extracts, even short ones, do not fall within the scope of neighbouring law, whereas, as Aurore Bergé pointed out very well, the protection of hyperlinks will continue to ensure the freedom of use and of reference to texts. We may have the same objective, but we may want to take different paths to achieve it. On the other hand, on the basis of the precise elements of the field of neighbouring law and the beneficiaries of its application, in particular the press agencies, I can only call on you to vote against this motion for referral to committee, so that France's words, its vigilance and the positive message it wishes to send to Europe are heard. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LR groups]] I believe that Europe is never more beautiful than when it is inspired by certain major French principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u30	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u31	I call for a vote on this motion to refer it back to committee. Mr rapporteur, you said that we could shed light on the European work: if the negotiations did not succeed by November, we solemnly commit ourselves here to come back together, perhaps in a future niche of the MODEM Group, with a revised text, which is legally good and even better than what has been done, on this absolutely essential subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The French National Assembly and its Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education will be able to shoulder their responsibilities with you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u32	In the explanations of vote, the floor is for Mr Philippe Berta, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u33	We do not share the reasons given for referring this text back to committee, even though we note that discussions on this subject are being resumed in the near future. However, we would like to stress to our colleagues the advantages of voting at first reading. First of all, in any case, this initiative of our Assembly would not short-circuit the European negotiations, since, of course, the scheme would not immediately enter into force, since the time of the shuttle would allow it to be improved and clarified in the light of European progress. This vote would have the advantage of sending an immediate signal to our European colleagues, telling them our full support for the conclusion of a text on an effective neighbouring right. We would save valuable time for transposition in the event of welcome progress in European discussions, which would make this right operational in 2019; This time would be just as valuable for the financing of our media, which would find in this mechanism an important and rapid source of funding, when they are urgently in need of it. Finally, if the discussions were to end, we would have a mechanism ready to enter into force without losing publishers and news agencies another year. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] For these reasons, we will oppose this referral motion and call on our colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u34	Mr Philippe Dunoyer, for the IDU Group, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u35	The IDU group disagreed with the very principle of this motion to refer. As we have already said in previous parliamentary niches, it is not consistent to keep the possibility of putting on the agenda texts chosen by the political groups without giving them the opportunity to be discussed before national representation. On the merits, we share the concerns set out in this bill. As we pointed out during the general discussion, this text aims to send a strong signal to publishers and news agencies that, in the face of the conditions imposed by the GAFAMs, are in David's position against Goliath. As the outcome of the ongoing discussions at European level is quite uncertain, it seems to us legitimate to legislate today at national level to further protect our media, which have invested heavily to adapt to the new technologies without, however, reaping the benefits to which they could legitimately claim. This bill, along with the Fake News text, which we will be considering from next week, is in the direction of better protection of freedom of the press and its corollary, freedom of expression. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Our group will therefore vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u36	Mr Adrien Quatennens, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u37	Through this bill, our MODEM colleagues have addressed a real subject; Indeed, the profits of online press publishers have literally melted in recent years. They are often former digitally converted paper publishers, who have made significant adaptation investments. Platforms, for their part, generate great benefits by obtaining a lot of data when consulting the content produced online. Having said that, we believe that the establishment of neighbouring rights – i.e. prohibitions or authorisations to pay for the distribution of online content – will simply harm the dissemination of these rights. The reference in the text to the terms "all or part" is particularly problematic. But since the subject matter is important, by tradition we prefer to amend the text to correct its inaccuracies and take on collective discussion with our colleagues rather than go into the logic of motions for rejection when it comes to bills. [[Applause on the benches of the FI groups and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Furthermore, the reasons behind this motion for referral to committee, taking the pretext of the European agenda, do not suit us. Until proven otherwise, we are here in the French National Assembly and not in the European Parliament. In many cases, what France decides and does, Europe meditates on it. Yes, we can send a signal that contributes to the discussions we need to have on these issues with our European partners. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u38	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor for the La République Group on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u39	We certainly agree with the principle of this bill to create a similar right for publishers and news agencies. We share your ambition to reinforce the plurality of our press and to restore the conditions for a balance between protecting the investments made by publishers and the needs of internet broadcasting. Present in the programme which the French wished to carry a year ago, this will was even confirmed by the President of the Republic in his speech of the Sorbonne of 26 September last. The challenge today is to find the most effective way to achieve this. Indeed, we must be aware that this issue can only be resolved at a European, not a national, level if we are to implement effective regulation. In this context, the adoption of a purely national text at this stage of the discussions may be misunderstood by our partners. It could even prove counterproductive and strengthen the camp of hostile countries. Countries that have chosen to adopt purely national legislation have failed; The initiatives of our Spanish and German neighbours have thus proved to be very counterproductive. France is now extremely mobilized to reach an ambitious European directive. A majority is finally emerging in the European countries to bring this project to a successful conclusion before the end of the current year. Adopting a national text today, which would probably end its parliamentary run at the end of the year, would be a very bad signal to our partners. He would suggest that we are abandoning a real evolution of the European framework, which is by no means the case, quite the contrary. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u40	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor for the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u41	As I had the opportunity to say during the general discussion, the Members of the Republican Group wish to take the opportunity of the examination in the French National Assembly of this bill tabled by the MODEM Group and our colleague Patrick Mignola to send a strong political message, a signal to the European institutions: we strongly support the French Government and the Minister of Culture in their efforts to create a neighbouring right for publishers and news agencies. Many of us have had the opportunity to share their doubts and suspicions about the good progress of the European text currently under discussion, as many postponements and delays have already been made. Most recently, on 9 May, the President of our Assembly, François de Rugy, called on Members to become more involved in European matters, so that we do not see why we cannot take full control of this issue on the grounds that it would be subject to subtle, intense, delicate, laborious and lengthy negotiations within the European institutions. It seems to us that the French national representation is well-founded to express its strong and strong support, very consensual on these benches, for the position defended with courage by the French Government. We cannot accept the arguments that our position could have a counterproductive effect. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM and FI groups]] We therefore welcome the vote on the first reading of this text, and we will vote against the motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u42	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u43	With regard to a text on the agenda set by the Assembly, it will be for the Conference of Presidents to propose the conditions for further discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u44	The next item is the debate on Mr Philippe Berta's proposal for a law on the improvement of the disability compensation benefit (No. 559, 907).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u45	Mr Philippe Berta, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u46	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the third proposal for a law from the MODEM and related group which we are considering today is intended to improve the right to compensation for the consequences of disability. More than 13 years ago, the Law of 11 February 2005 on Equal Rights and Opportunities, Participation and Citizenship of Persons with Disabilities significantly changed the policy for persons with disabilities. Its main thrust is the recognition of a right to compensation for the consequences of disability, which is the result of the disability compensation benefit – PCH. This individualized benefit, allocated almost unconditionally of resources, has enabled the national solidarity to cover the additional costs of any kind caused by disability. However, it must be noted that the original ambition of the text has not been fully realized. Indeed, the hearings I conducted drew my attention to several difficulties faced by persons with disabilities. These difficulties are all the more unbearable because they concern the most fragile of us. In particular, I would like to mention the exclusion of some elderly disabled persons from the benefit of the PCH because of the maintenance of the age barriers of seventy-five years, the existence of too high dependent remains, the exclusion of home help from the benefit of PCH's share of the funding of human aid, its inadaptation to children, the inadequacies of parental support perceived by persons with disabilities and the length of time taken to process cases by the departmental houses of disabled persons – CDMH. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, there are many challenges and expectations. That is why, more than thirteen years after the major law of 2005, we felt it was urgent to take action and propose concrete responses in order to improve the daily lives of people with disabilities. The bill that I am presenting to you today seeks to solve two problems: the age barriers to which the benefit of the PCH and that of the rest is conditional. It is more broadly part of the policy supported by the majority, which has made disability one of the quinquennium's priorities. Indeed, the Prime Minister announced the implementation of ambitious measures on the occasion of the first interdepartmental committee on disability – CIH – held on 20 September. These include the upgrading of the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH – gradually increasing to 900 euros by November 2019, the modernisation of the application processing tools available to the CDMH through the deployment of a new information system and the improvement of access to the rights of persons with disabilities in the most vulnerable territories – all of which are already being undertaken by the majority. Above all, I would like to welcome the announcement by the President of the Republic, during the television interview on 15 April, of an ambitious reform of the financing of dependency. This subject is thus on the agenda of the Government's reforms, which we can all welcome. Even before the launch of this major project, the bill that we are going to consider aims to correct two shortcomings of the law of 11 February 2005. First of all, its Article 1 e provides for the abolition of the age limit – currently set at seventy-five years – beyond which it is no longer possible to apply for the PCH. The age limit for applying for the benefit of PCH is set at 60 years. However, persons whose disability met the criteria for the award of the PCH before that age may also apply for the benefit, provided that they do so before the age of seventy-five. It seems particularly unfair to us to set this age limit at seventy-five years. Indeed, this threshold penalizes those who did not consider it useful to file their application before the age of seventy-five years and who are experiencing difficulties at a later age due to a change in their environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u49	For example, a person with a disability may never have applied for the benefit of the PCH because a relative provided him with the human assistance he needed on a daily basis. If the relative is no longer able to do so – because he is aging or dying – while the disabled person is over seventy-five years of age, the latter is unable to apply for the benefit of the PCH, even though his disability was declared before the age of sixty. Therefore, the only possibility available to it is to apply for the benefit of the personalized autonomy allowance – APA – which, in general, gives rise to much less comprehensive coverage than the PCH. In this context, the removal of the seventy-five-year-old age barrier to solicit the benefit of the PCH is a common sense measure aimed at achieving equity. It makes it possible to take into account the changes in the environment of persons with disabilities over the age of seventy-five years, but also the increase in their life expectancy, which today is a reality. If adopted, this measure would improve the right to compensation for approximately 8600 ageing disabled people – according to the evaluation of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, IGAS – at a cost of approximately €69 million per year. Of course, the article aimed at removing the age barrier of seventy-five years is not an end in itself. He called for an assessment of the relevance of the 60-year-old barrier. Personally, I believe that the debate on the removal of the 60-year-old barrier will necessarily have to be opened. This age limit deserves to be reassessed, because of the increase in life expectancy and the minimum retirement age – from sixty to sixty-two years. If it is premature to decide this debate today in the absence of a reliable financial assessment, we will have to pay particular attention to it in the coming months. The work of the National Conference on Disability, which will open in a few weeks, will allow – I hope – to address this issue. I now turn to section 2 of the bill, on the leftovers of persons with disabilities. The aim is to overcome a legal stalemate resulting from the Act of 11 February 2005 on the operation of departmental disability compensation funds, which are responsible for providing extra-legal financial assistance to persons with disabilities to enable them to meet any compensation costs that may remain at their expense after payment of the PCH. From the outset, their functioning was weakened by two perfectly contradictory logics, both adopted by article L. 245-1 of the Code of Social Action and Families. On the one hand, the abundance of funds is based on voluntary financing. Indeed, they can be financed by several actors – departments, the State, regions, health insurance bodies and family benefit funds – whose participation is not compulsory. On the other hand, the same article provides that the compensation costs remaining at the expense of the beneficiary of the PCH may not exceed 10% of his net personal resources of taxes "under conditions defined by decree". It is therefore a legal obligation whose implementation is based on voluntary funding. The inherent contradiction of this article prevented the publication of the implementing decree, and thus the effective entry into force of the remaining provisions. In the absence of publication of the implementing decree, the establishment of departmental disability compensation funds has been carried out in various ways in the national territory. Each departmental council has decided on eligible audiences and on the amounts and types of aid awarded. This results in significant inequalities between departments, which are not acceptable. According to a survey by the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy – CNSA – conducted in 2016, the funds made it possible to finance on average 134 interventions per department in 2015, but the differences are very large from one department to another. For example, one department's disability compensation fund did not fund any interventions for 17 applications reviewed, and another funded 468. With regard to the types of aid financed from these funds, technical aid accounts on average for just over half of the expenditure – exactly 53 % – but there are large differences between the departments, ranging from 0 to 85 % of the expenditure. In addition, one third of the departments contribute to the financing of all aspects of the PCH, while others limit their assistance to some of them – most often technical aids as well as the development of a dwelling or a vehicle. Human aid is very little covered by the compensation funds. In addition, almost all CDMHs take into account the level of resources of the disabled person in calculating the amount of aid granted to him. However, this calculation is carried out very differently in different departments. Finally, the level of the remaining liability for the user is taken into account by almost 90% of the compensation funds that responded to the survey, but on a variable basis. If some departments intervene as soon as the remainder of the dependent person is more than 10 per cent of the annual resources of the disabled person, as provided for by law, others examine the applications on a case-by-case basis and assess the overall situation of the applicant. Still others believe that the rest of the load should be capped. In this context, Article 2 of the draft law has two objectives: to reduce inequalities of care between departments and finally to enable the implementation of the legislative provision providing for the beneficiaries of the PCH to remain at a maximum charge of 10% of their resources. To this end, it provides for a three-year experiment in the voluntary departments. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, the bill that I am presenting to you, ladies and gentlemen, improves the right to compensation for persons with disabilities. It alone does not solve all the difficulties, but it is a first step. The two measures I have presented are not negligible for those who will benefit from them.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u50	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u51	Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome the bill of which you are the author, Mr Berta, which contains a real step forward for disabled people through the removal of the seventy-five-year-old barrier. This removal will solve situations, probably few – less than 10,000 people, as you recalled – but particularly painful for the people concerned, who did not consider it useful to seek the benefit of the PCH in time and in time, before they were seventy-five years old. The current ban on claiming their rights to the PCH passed that age unfairly penalizes them, even though they are in difficulty because of a – often painful – change in their environment, such as the loss of a loved one who helped them. The bill takes up a sustained measure in the framework of an earlier interministerial committee on disability, which I made sure it received the consent of the Assembly of the French Departments. Indeed, I have placed co-construction with stakeholders at the heart of my work and wish to move forward on these issues in close association with the departments, leaders of social action and funders of the PCH. Of course, the departments will have to confirm their agreement throughout the parliamentary process, in a context marked by discussions between the Government and the departments on the financing of individual solidarity grants. Several departments, in particular Finistère, Gard and Hauts-de-Seine, are ready to experiment with the second measure brought about by the bill, whose interest is undeniable. It is intended to solve the difficulties encountered in implementing a legislative measure designed to limit the remaining burden, but unfortunately inapplicable as it is. It makes it possible to break out of a blockage that is more than thirteen years old and I would like to congratulate its author. This proposal does not exhaust the work that the Government wishes to undertake in the area of disability compensation. I have asked my services to study, in particular, the question of parenthood, technical aids, psychological disability, on the basis of the proposals of the IGAS report of 2016 which I requested to publish as soon as I took office. This work will be enriched very soon by the proposals that MP Adrien Taquet and Jean-François Serres, a personality recognized for issues of autonomy, will make in their report on the simplification of the administrative path of persons with disabilities. Reissued in the coming days, it will be an opportunity for new exchanges. I am pleased that, on this anniversary of the Government's constitution, this bill brings us together to improve people's daily lives. Disability compensation was a wonderful step forward in the 2005 Act. The scheme, both original and ambitious, aims at the universality of the additional costs associated with disability and the individualisation of evaluation, with a virtual absence of resource requirements. However, improvement measures were expected. Those proposed to you are in the direction of a better inclusion which is, as you know, the compass of my action. The lifting of the seventy-five-year barrier will help to keep ageing persons with disabilities at home, who, like everyone else, aspire to remain as independent as possible in their places of life. Experimenting with the new mode of operation of the departmental funds will make it easier for people who need it most for assistance essential to their autonomy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you have understood, the Government fully supports this pragmatic proposal, which will allow for some progress that has long been mentioned, but never been achieved.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u52	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u53	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, "Society is aware of its responsibilities and duties. This last term does not satisfy me: indeed, it is solidarity that requires us to take care of all human beings, regardless of their situation or disability, whether innate or caused by an accident. France is one of the richest nations in the world: we must be able to assume this solidarity in a fraternal manner in decent conditions that do not humiliate families and that respect the needs of everyone and especially children. "The law [...], and especially what parents, associations and professionals have done with it, has made considerable progress despite its shortcomings, both in the establishment of institutions and in the daily lives of persons with disabilities. It brought them happiness at the same time as comfort. However, much remains to be done. » These few words are not mine, but those of Simone Veil, who was at the origin of the first framework law in favour of disabled people. That was almost forty-three years ago, and yet the conclusion of this point remains valid. "We still have a lot to do," to improve accessibility – we will talk about it again when we look at the bill on housing, planning and digital development – to improve access to training and learning – the bill on the freedom to choose one's professional future will meet this requirement, which is essential for the emancipation of the most fragile – or to promote the inclusion of persons with disabilities in business and society in general. The bill tabled and reported by our colleague Philippe Berta has been adopted unanimously by our committee. Our rapporteur has very modestly explained that it is only a step towards a better management by our society of persons with disabilities. That's probably true. I believe in this pragmatic approach which does not revolutionize our whole society, but which improves and sometimes changes the lives of a number of our fellow citizens. This legislation allows people with a long history of disability, but who had managed to cope without needing a compensation benefit, to no longer be penalized. As the age came, and the difficulties grew, they eventually needed it, but they were opposed to a rule of law that was meaningless. This bill seems obvious: it will have taken some time for it to become necessary. It illustrates the complexity of the applicable disability law. Its Article 2 bears witness to this: we must legislate because the law in force was so ambiguous that it finally prevented the passage of implementing legislation. So today we are fixing two errors: one of substance, the other of poor drafting and, more deeply, of an unaccepted choice. This must make us think. This bill removes an unfair age barrier. In the same spirit of justice and simplification, we could bring down others or rationalise complex arrangements. The idea is sometimes raised, in this way, of bringing together, or even merging, the compensatory disability benefit and the personalised autonomy allowance, both based on the same approach of taking care of a path of autonomy. However, we must remain cautious: complexity is sometimes justified by differences in circumstances and simplification can only be achieved if the situation of already vulnerable people is not weakened. I will give another example. The upgrading of the allowance for disabled adults is, I believe, unanimous in this House, although some regret that it is not sufficient and that it is not being paid quickly enough. However, this very positive measure also has on-board effects: in the case of couples with an adult disability allowance beneficiary, the spouse's income is taken into account in the calculation of the AAH.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u54	And the ceiling!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u55	And this same AAH is in turn taken into account in the income used to calculate the activity premium. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Today, we can advance the situation of people with disabilities. We will have to continue this work, with realism, but also with voluntarism. We still have a lot to do, Madam Secretary of State. The Committee on Social Affairs is ready to engage in this discussion with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u56	In the general debate, Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u57	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam President of the Committee, dear rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank our rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on such a major subject as disability. While the Act of 2005 initiated a movement to improve the living conditions of persons with disabilities and their families, demographic changes and the consequences of these changes require adjustments to ensure access to basic rights and quality support for all persons with disabilities. Thirteen years after the law was passed, what can we establish? First of all, life expectancy has improved further and the ageing of the population has increased, which we must take into account in terms of national solidarity. Indeed, ageing is in addition to the alterations due to disability for the persons concerned. The seventy-five-year-old age barrier then becomes obsolete and deeply unjust. In 2005, the legislator planned to abolish it within a maximum of five years. It is therefore a matter of returning to the spirit of the law and abolishing a measure unanimously criticized by associations defending the rights of persons with disabilities. In addition, support for persons with disabilities has resulted in the allocation of financial assistance through departmental disability compensation funds. The work carried out by our rapporteur reveals significant territorial disparities – the take-overs differ from department to department, the arrangements for organisation and financing vary, the eligibility criteria for beneficiaries change and the levels of intervention differ. These territorial inequalities are due to legislative and regulatory inaccuracies. As a parliamentarian, it is up to us to take our share of responsibility and to clarify the scope of the beneficiaries and the aid eligible for their funding. This proposal provides for the removal of the seventy-five-year-old age barrier, the limitation of the remaining burden on beneficiaries and the harmonisation of the functioning of compensation funds in the territory. With regard to the extension of the right to benefit from disability compensation, it is proposed to revert to a particularly unfair age limit, which does not allow for the inclusion of persons who have never applied for assistance but who, as a result of a change in their environment, find themselves in difficulty. This is the case for people who received help from a loved one. This proposal also aims to effectively implement the 2005 Act in order to ensure a limited remaining burden for PCH beneficiaries. The three-year experiment in the voluntary departments will monitor the efficiency of the original scheme and, where appropriate, propose adjustments to make it more effective. Both measures respond to a strong demand from persons with disabilities and their families. They are reinforced by the work carried out by IGAS in 2016 and are in line with the Government's impetus given during the first interdepartmental committee on disability in September 2017. These two proposals aim to make the system more just in favour of our disabled fellow citizens. As the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs recalled, the unanimous vote of Members on 9 May last speaks for itself. There is an urgent need to improve these devices. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] That is why, of course, the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u58	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u59	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today, as part of the MODEM Group's special day, we are considering a proposal for a law to improve the provision of compensation for disability. The IUD, Action and Independent Group advocates a generous and ambitious disability policy. Solidarity is what holds society as a whole and gives it its humanity and cohesion. It is one of the pillars of our republican pact. It is indeed the greatness of our institutions that we take strong action in this area, in order to protect our most fragile citizens more. While our assembly may differ in terms of the effectiveness or relevance of our public policies on disability, we all agree on their essential dimension and the need for proactive action.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u61	Our goal must be to change the perspective on disability so that each member of society, regardless of their abilities or level of disability, is perceived as a wealth for the community as a whole. However – and this is essential – it is not a question of removing, in our policies for an inclusive society, the dimension of suffering and the specificity of the experience of disability. We must be careful not to make these people invisible, in our search for undifferentiated treatment of people with disabilities. Since the founding law of 30 June 1975, we have gradually moved from a logic of assistance, focusing on the care and care of persons in accordance with a medical concept of disability, to a logic of rights. The Act of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities has largely redefined the contours of our policies, taking up the principle of the right to compensation for the consequences of disability, but above all by providing it with a definition and content. The right to compensation thus defined goes far beyond the individual components of technical and human assistance, or the adjustment of the person's own living environment. It also focuses on the collective components of this right, namely accessibility of the built environment, access to school and employment, and the development of the provision of places in specialized institutions. Ultimately, the implementation of this right to compensation is aimed at giving persons with disabilities the freedom to define their own plans for life. The disability compensation benefit, created by the same law, is at the heart of the scheme to allow this compensation. This is an innovative and ambitious scheme, almost not subject to resource conditions and which has advantageously replaced the compensation allowance for third parties, which was confined to human aid. The creation of the PCH had provided a welcome clarification on the nature of benefits, with the PCH having to realize the right to compensation for disability and the allowance for adults with disabilities being conceived as an income of existence. The combination of these two benefits was intended to substantially improve the living conditions of persons with disabilities. However, the PCH device is not free from defects. It therefore takes insufficient account of the increase in the life expectancy of our citizens, which also benefits people with disabilities. Because of the advances in medicine, the improvement of the quality of the accompaniment and a better consideration of their specific needs, people with disabilities live longer. Thus, according to a survey by the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government in 2014, on a national average, 13 per cent of the applications filed with the CDMH concern a person over 59 years of age and PCH applications account for 6.6 per cent of the total. This development must lead us to a global reflection and to adapt our legislative framework. The bill we are considering today, as part of the MODEM Group's day, aims to improve the functioning of this service and its accessibility. It intends to respond in part to this specific problem of ageing people with disabilities. This is a step forward that we welcome. It aims, on the one hand, to remove the age barrier of seventy-five years beyond which a person can no longer claim the disability compensation benefit, even though he or she was eligible for it before the age of sixty – we could also go back to the problem of the 60-year-old barrier. The introduction of these age criteria had been challenged during the 2005 review of the bill, on the grounds that it could lead to breaches of law and discrimination between individuals. For this reason, the final version of article 13 of the Act provided for the abolition within a maximum period of five years of the provisions distinguishing persons with disabilities on the basis of age, as regards compensation for disability and the provision of accommodation in social and medical-social institutions. It was therefore a mechanism which, in the spirit of the legislator, was only provisional and intended to be repealed. The Council of State, which had been seized of this matter by an association in 2012, had in some way exempted the State from the obligation to act, considering that article 13 was of no normative scope. However, the issue has not disappeared. Several IGAS reports in 2011 and 2016 called for the removal of this age criterion. Article 45 of the Law on the Adaptation of Society to Ageing also provided for the submission to Parliament of a report on the impact of the thresholds for the award of disability compensation benefits. I had also pointed out, at the time of the presentation of the evaluation report on the same law, that the publication of this report was particularly expected by all those involved in disability. The general view is that the maintenance of these age barriers, particularly that of seventy-five years, is seen as particularly unfair. It reflects an inappropriate view that, starting from a certain age, the difficulties that people would experience would no longer be linked to disability but only to dependency, whereas in reality the two problems are added instead of replacing one another. The removal of this seventy-five-year-old age barrier is therefore a measure of justice and fairness, which we fully agree with, even if its implementation must have some financial consequences for the departments which will, I am sure, bear it to the tune of EUR 69 million for all of them. As you pointed out, Madam Secretary of State, they will be able to solve very difficult problems for the 8600 beneficiaries. Article 2 of the draft law provides for the establishment of an experiment to limit the remainder to the beneficiaries of the PCH, since the current inaccuracy of the law hinders the publication of the decree limiting the remainder to 10% of the beneficiaries' resources. The territorial inequalities in terms of the remaining burden are now staggering. Indeed, the 2016 IGAS report highlights very disparate practices according to the CDMH, which are responsible for the management of the Disability Compensation Fund. Indeed, it is often scales or ceilings that are applied and not the 10 per cent criterion of resources. We are in favour of setting up this experiment, which should make it possible to break the deadlock. We hope that it will lead to a solution that is both sustainable for public finances and fairer for applicants, even if it is necessary to remind – I am doing so after others – that the provision falls under a decree. In the same way as other Members of Parliament, we have repeatedly referred in this Chamber to the blatant injustice of taking into account the spouse's income in calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. That is why we will submit to the Assembly's wisdom an amendment to assess the cost of deconjugalizing the calculation of resources for the benefit of the AAH. This is a requirement of justice, as persons with disabilities should not be penalized in their private lives because of their disability. Maintaining this consideration sometimes leads to unworthy situations, leading these people to give up a family life for fear of losing the benefit of this benefit. They may also find themselves financially dependent on their spouse, in defiance of their dignity and at a time when they face greater difficulties than those able to find a job. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and MODEM groups]] I hope that we will find a solution on this subject, which is unanimous among the players and representatives of the sector. Our group is therefore very much in favour of examining this bill. We are convinced that it is necessary to act with voluntarism towards people with disabilities, for a more inclusive society. This text has the merit of solving two particular problems and taking two steps – two small steps, but considerable. In the debate in committee, we have seen – and it will be the same during our debate in the Chamber – that the time has perhaps come, Madam Secretary of State, to open up the work sites to the needs of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u62	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u63	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the Chairperson of the Committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the provision of compensation for disability is one of the pillars of the right to compensation enshrined in the Act of 11 February 2005. This benefit is intended to cover the needs of the person with a disability on the basis of a global and individualised assessment. It contributes to the essential objective of disability policy, which is to allow everyone to freely choose their own life plan. In March 2016, the Minister of Social Affairs and Health, Marisol Touraine, and the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities and the Fight against Exclusion, Ségolène Neuville, applied to IGAS for a mission on the "revision of the terms and conditions of attribution" of the PCH, in order to "go towards greater equity in the territory" and better target its terms and conditions of allocation. Three avenues for improvement are suggested in this mission letter: the sharing of PCH in "shared" housing, the inclusion of "parental support" in the benefit, the removal of the seventy-five-year-old age barrier to access the benefit, and even sixty-year-olds to recognize disability. The Interdepartmental Committee on Disability of 2 December 2016 took four decisions to improve the compensation of disability: remove the age barrier of seventy-five years to benefit from the PCH in the case of persons who were eligible for it before the age of 60; take into account the needs related to mental, cognitive or mental disability in the eligibility criteria for the PCH; create parental support under the PCH; Finally, within the framework of a multi-annual partnership, the Handéo association will assist in its efforts to enrich the provision of services to the person intended for persons with disabilities and to promote the quality of service. However, the Interdepartmental Disability Committee of 20 September 2017 did not propose any measures regarding the right to compensation for disability. The text we are looking at today proposes two measures to improve disability compensation benefits. The first removes the age barrier of seventy-five years after which a person can no longer apply for the PCH, even though he or she met the criteria for the award of the benefit before the age of sixty. Currently, the legislation and regulations impose two age barriers to applying for the PCH, one to sixty years, the other to seventy-five years, both of which are contested. The age of seventy-five penalizes those who did not consider it useful to apply for the PCH before seventy-five years and who find themselves, past that age, in difficulty due to a change in their environment. Article 45 of the Act of 28 December 2015 on the adaptation of society to ageing provided for the submission by the Government of a report to Parliament on the impact of the age limits of seventy-five years for the allocation of the disability compensation benefit in the consideration of disability for ageing persons with disabilities. It was following the adoption of this article that the previous government referred the matter to IGAS. The report, published in November 2016, proposes to ease age barriers. The Committee recommends, on the one hand, that the seventy-five-year-old age barrier be removed and, on the other hand, that the age barrier for access to the PCH from sixty to sixty-five years be repelled as a first step. The Interministerial Committee on Disability of 2 December 2016 also voted in favour of the abolition of the age barrier of seventy-five years. As part of the work of the IGAS mission, an evaluation of its cost was carried out by the DRESS – Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics. It would be low: DGCS – Directorate-General for Social Cohesion – had estimated that this measure could affect 8,700 potential beneficiaries, for an average monthly amount of PCH of 750 euros: the cost of the measure would be 69 million euros. While the New Left Group supports this first measure of the bill, the question of the other age barrier, that of sixty, remains. The second measure of the draft law envisages a three-year experiment in voluntary departments to study the feasibility of a mechanism guaranteeing a level of remaining burden equivalent to a maximum of 10% of the resources of the beneficiaries of the PCH. The compensation costs remaining at the expense of the beneficiary of the PCH shall be borne by the compensation fund, within the limits of the financing of that fund. Such assistance from the fund would be provided on a resource-based basis. If the New Left Group takes note of the rapporteur's willingness to reduce the remaining dependants of those who use the departmental compensation funds, we question the situation of those who will not have the chance to live in the territories chosen for this experiment. Indeed, according to the survey carried out by the CNSA in 2015, there are large disparities in the territory, both in terms of the organisation and financing of funds, of the public and of eligible aid. Where the data are available, the rest of the dependants who have received funding from the fund are on average 16 per cent, which is more than the maximum of 10 per cent of the remaining dependants laid down by law. The current wording of article L. 146-5 of the Code of Social Action and Families raises several questions. The first is that of the field of intervention of the departmental compensation funds: do they have to finance only the leftovers of the beneficiaries of the PCH or of any person with a disability? The circular of 19 May 2006 has a very broad view of the eligible public. The second is that of the perimeter and the definition of the rest of the burden: the law lays down a double contradictory criterion. It states that the compensation costs remaining at the expense of the PCH beneficiary may not exceed 10% of its net personal resources of taxes "under conditions defined by decree", but within the limits of the rates and amounts borne by the PCH. This implementing decree on the remainder of the charge has never been published. The third is the link between the obligation to finance and the voluntary nature of the wealth of the fund by the various financiers. The financial uncertainties make these funds very precarious and weaken their functioning. The effect of this situation is to greatly insecure the people who use it to finance the leftovers they have as part of their rights of compensation. While the New Left Group welcomes the rapporteur's initiative, it stresses the limited scope of this bill, which can only be a first step in improving the PCH. Other strong expectations and challenges are not addressed in this bill: the exclusion of some elderly persons with disabilities from the benefit of the PCH due to the maintenance of the 60-year-old barrier; difficulties in accessing the PCH for mental, cognitive or mental disabilities; exclusion of domestic assistance in the PCH, which creates great difficulties and misunderstanding for people; inadaptation of the PCH for insufficient parental support for persons with disabilities. All of these questions remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u64	While the inter-ministerial committee of 20 September 2017 did not propose any measures concerning the right to compensation for disability, the associations defending the rights of persons with disabilities are today calling for the Government to address these issues and to reopen as soon as possible the necessary work on these issues. These associations demand a genuine Marshall compensation plan, and the New Left Group supports their request. In conclusion, Madam Secretary of State, let me ask you a question that also concerns the world of disability. Can you reassure the associative world about the sanctuarization of this right to compensation acquired from high struggle? Our group will vote on this proposal for a law, taking note of the major projects which, however, still need to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u65	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u66	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, 'exclusion', 'abuse', 'invisibility', 'lack of prospects': these are the words that can often describe the condition of persons with disabilities in our country. Whether it is from birth, as a result of accidents or as a result of disabling diseases, nearly 12 million people are confronted every day with a difficult daily life, in a France which, it must be said, is one of the bad pupils with regard to the respect of their rights. Our country is regularly pointed out by international bodies because of repeated violations of international agreements on disability – this was the case, for example, in 2014 with regard to the failure to respect the right of autism to be educated in ordinary schools. A few days ago, two non-governmental organisations announced their intention to refer them to the Council of Europe Committee on Social Rights by bringing a collective complaint for non-compliance with the European Social Charter. According to the United Nations, "disability results from the interaction between people with long-lasting physical, mental, intellectual or sensory disabilities and behavioural and environmental barriers". It is these barriers that hinder the full and effective participation of these people in society, not the other way round. Thus, according to this definition, disability is not a characteristic of individuals, but it results from an interaction between these individuals and their environment. The responsibility for adaptation does not lie with people with disabilities and we must not reduce this issue to a private matter. The stakes are those of respect for dignity, freedom and equality. It is up to the community to adapt to allow everyone and everyone to take their place. The aid provided to the persons concerned is in no way charity. It is a question of solidarity, a land on which our social Republic is founded: each gives according to its means and receives according to its needs. It is this social republic that has made it possible to set up several benefits to compensate for the loss of income due to disability. Among them, disability compensation benefits are assistance to finance certain disability-related expenses, such as day-to-day assistance, housing arrangements or the purchase of a suitable vehicle. In 2017, 335,000 people benefited from this progressive benefit and were paid on a means-tested basis. The Group of the European People's Party is in favour of this bill. It aims, on the one hand, to remove the seventy-five-year-old barrier, the age before which the claim for disability compensation must be lodged, failing which it is never possible to receive such aid, and, on the other hand, to allow the departments to experiment with measures to limit the remainder to be borne by the beneficiaries. However, we do not forget that this aid can be threatened by the decline in allocations to the departments. The Government does not intend to reverse the declines and, on the contrary, continues to aggravate the situation by punctuating the budgets of the local authorities. We deplore him. The appropriations have already decreased by EUR 5 billion in the course of the vote on the first budget text by this majority; Over the quinquennium as a whole, nearly EUR 10 billion will have to be saved. In this sense, the Government is pursuing "austerity" policies under the previous five-year period, when we see clearly their harmful effects, a fortiori on the subject we are dealing with today and on the most fragile people. In our view, the payment of these benefits must no longer be the responsibility of exsangu departments. This allocation of competence increases territorial inequalities, since citizens may not benefit from the same support depending on where they live. Disability, on the other hand, does not know the administrative boundaries – as you know, ladies and gentlemen. We would be in favour of direct payment of this aid by the State, in order to ensure equal treatment throughout the national territory. We wanted to table several amendments to improve this text and to better meet the expectations of people with disabilities. The preamble to the Constitution of 27 October 1946 provides that "the Nation shall ensure to the individual and the family the conditions necessary for their development" and that "every human being who, by reason of his age, physical or mental condition, economic situation, is unable to work shall have the right to obtain from the community adequate means of subsistence". In this respect, the timid revalorisation of the allowance for adults with disabilities is largely insufficient: whereas €400,000 was offered this year and without consideration to the 1000 largest contributors to the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – only a few tens of euros will be allocated over two years, starting next year, to people with disabilities. An allowance for adults with disabilities of EUR 900 per month is far less than the actual needs of its beneficiaries. We want it to be upgraded to the level of the SMIC. Our first amendment therefore asks the Government to submit to Parliament a report assessing the cost of such an increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities, which would be brought to the level of the SMIC. This is one of the first steps we would take if the French gave us their confidence in the presidential and legislative elections. Our second amendment would have been to remove the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities, paid to 1 million people. Indeed, we want to go back to the decision taken by the Government, which had deprived tens of thousands of people of that allowance while they had been receiving it so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u68	Many associations have alerted all the deputies, on the various benches of our assembly, as well as the members of the Government about the dangers of this measure. The services of the National Assembly have declared our amendment inadmissible, so it cannot be discussed. However, there is an urgent need to re-establish the situation, and we therefore hope that the Government will act in that direction. We believe that the numerous warnings and the publicity of our debates will convince you of the validity of this request. There has been a clear lack of political will. The Republic has abandoned a whole section of the population, making people with disabilities second-class citizens and sometimes disregarding their most basic rights. Republican universalism, however, grants equal rights to all persons, having as their sole consideration their status as human beings. It is this great principle that underpins our action, on the basis of Article 1 e rde of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen of 26 August 1789: "Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u69	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u70	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, compensation for disability must be a universal right. Because disability adds to all inequalities, to all the difficulties of life, our society must ensure this compensation, not as a gesture of charity, but as a right. Access to this right must not be sown with obstacles. However, public authorities often tend not to go to the end of their intentions. This is what the Association des paralysées de France, for example, denounces when it states, with regard to the provision of compensation for disability, that "the conditions of access to this benefit are too restrictive and exclude from the outset a number of applicants". This benefit is essential since it is intended to finance disability-related expenses, whether human or technical and material. It is all the more necessary because, according to an IGAS report, half of people with disabilities have a standard of living below EUR 1540 per month, almost EUR 200 less than a valid person. The same report states that "the more severe the disability, the lower the income and the higher the level of poverty". On balance, the disposable income of persons with disabilities remains 1.4 times lower than that of all 15-64 year-olds. This is partly due to the increased difficulty of these people finding a job. But the deterioration of their conditions does not stop there: still according to an IGAS report of 2016, the monthly amount of the PCH per person has decreased in recent years, from more than 1000 euros in 2006 to 800 euros in 2011 and 745 euros at the end of 2015. The situation varies greatly from department to department, as demonstrated by a joint IGAS/IGA evaluation report of August 2011 on PCH. This deterioration must be compared with, inter alia, the financial situation of the departments. According to the barometer of the National Observatory for Human Aid, in 2017, the time frame for processing applications varied from three to twelve months and the rate of agreement varied from 27% to 79%, depending on the department. The officers of the CDMH are mobilized: they alerted the public authorities because they can no longer conduct the investigation of the files due to lack of human resources. Behind these issues, it is women and men who wait too long for the answers to give them access to their rights. The Government must therefore guarantee the departmental councils the means to implement their main missions. There is a doubt about this – and even more than a doubt, since measures that run counter to this need have been announced. This situation reinforces our obligation in principle to act urgently to improve the living conditions of persons with disabilities, in particular through the PCH. The bill before us sets out the objective of improving this mechanism. Today, after the age of seventy-five years, a person who met the eligibility criteria before the age of sixty can no longer apply for this benefit. The first provision before us is to remove the seventy-five-year barrier to enable the persons concerned to assert their right to compensation even beyond that age. This seems to be a measure of common sense. Indeed, for many people, this compensation for disability is all the more necessary with age. How can we explain that they are prevented from accessing the PCH when they may need it most? This barrier must therefore be removed. Let's do it! However, by stopping at this point, we would allow inequality and ineptitude – as you pointed out, Mr rapporteur – to persist, since people who do not qualify for the PCH until after sixty years would remain excluded from the scheme. Again, even if the individual autonomy allowance can be paid to them, it is not on the same footing and does not compensate for their disability. It should be noted that the amount of the benefit is assessed taking into account the person's environment – in fact, taking into account the austerity logic of the departments and sometimes passed on by them, this assessment is too often made at the expense, at the risk of placing the person in the position of queer. It is not a question of doubling aid, but of fully establishing the beneficiaries in their rights through their complementarity. The removal of the seventy-five-year-old barrier reinforces the questions that weigh on the sixty-year-old one. We could have dealt with it as well. Article 2 follows a contradiction present at the heart of the 2005 law, which has been experienced, over time, as a hypocrisy. Indeed, the law provided for a maximum limit of 10% of the remainder due to the PCH without guaranteeing the funds intended to finance this measure, so that, since 2005, we still await implementing decrees. We must therefore act to put this provision into practice – it is more than time! It is proposed to start a three-year experiment in voluntary departments – you have also told us that there was one, Madam Secretary of State – in order to assess the financial feasibility of a mechanism guaranteeing a maximum remaining ceiling. We commend this willingness to move forward, but regret that this leads to a further setback in the possibility of a general application of this provision, since progress could only be achieved after these experiments. This would be tantamount to delaying a measure that had been voted in 2005 to 2021. Could we not, Madam Secretary of State, finally solve this problem for all the people concerned in our territory? For our part, we hope so. Your proposal is better than nothing, because it makes it possible to set a deadline, but this provision is also experienced by some as a new setback, with the fear of a reference to the Greek calends. The rest of the burden affects the purchasing power of families and is an eloquent sign of the incompleteness of the compensation offered by society – as if people were being held responsible for their disability. Expectations remain immense among people with disabilities and their families, and this bill, whose intentions we can welcome, can only be a new step towards moving towards new rights for people with disabilities, which are even more affected by social and territorial inequalities – new rights to respect human dignity. This is one of the reasons why, during the "flash mission" on carers, of which I was the rapporteur, I proposed the automaticity of the rights, the upgrading of the PCH or the taking over of 100% of the home help, eliminating the rest of the burden and the waiver of the rights. In his policy speech on July 4, 2017, the Prime Minister said: "The inclusion of persons with disabilities is one of the priorities of the quinquennium. Persons with disabilities and accompanying persons have the right to national solidarity. They need much more, and they can bring us more. » Persons with disabilities are still waiting for strong action. A too large part of the support for autonomy rests, where possible, on the families and the measures already proposed here, which could make progress in the lives of each and every one, have been rejected, until this proposal for a special committee, put forward by our colleague Marie-George Buffet, aimed at eliminating the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. This question was – and still, as I have seen – the subject of a broad consensus. To return to the provision of compensation for disability, it would therefore deserve a thorough review and further development. Should we not change the needs covered by the current PCH human aid, which has not evolved since the 2005 Act? Shouldn't we integrate domestic activities, which are still out-of-the-box? Shouldn't the list of elements eligible for this compensatory aid be reviewed, as it seems restrictive in the eyes of many associations? Don't we need a more appropriate compensation benefit for children, in order to allow them, together with their families, to live and grow up with dignity and security? Shouldn't the 10 per cent threshold still be the subject of questioning in the law itself? France has ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities: there is an urgent need to take all appropriate measures to eliminate all forms of discrimination against persons with disabilities and to produce significant progress towards equality. Many other levels are yet to be crossed in favour of autonomy, for the sake of respect for human rights and dignity. This bill is not enough, but every possible step must be taken. The cause of persons with disabilities advances society as a whole. It puts it in the face of the egalitarian demand and the challenge of self-reliance as a social objective that has never been abandoned. It reminds us of the strength of national solidarity – which, I say in passing, cannot consist of a new day stolen from those who already give so much. It calls for the construction of a public service at the heart of action to meet needs. Your initiative therefore helps to leave this file on the table and put it at the top of the stack. It's an absolute necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u72	Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u73	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to take a decision on the proposal for a law on the improvement of disability compensation provided by our colleague Philippe Berta. This text is a welcome initiative, because it aims to remove an unjust age barrier – that of the seventy-five years, beyond which a person can no longer apply for the PCH – and, at the same time, to introduce an experiment aimed at reducing the remaining burden on the beneficiaries of the PCH, an area in which we must put an end to immobilism. Thus, the two articles that make up this piece of legislation are useful and necessary: necessary, because they concern 8,700 people who, despite their disability, cannot benefit from the PCH; the right to compensatory benefits, which is one of the major advances in the 2005 Act. Other aspects emerged during the work prior to the discussion of the text: the age barrier of 60, from which applicants are referred to another benefit, and the needs of children, to which the PCH does not correspond. We are aware that these issues have significant financial implications. The text proposed by our colleague Philippe Berta has a good balance, which it is necessary to maintain. We fully support him. Nevertheless, this text shows us the way forward to substantially improve compensatory benefits. These are not a luxury, but a right, and a very beautiful right: they are the expression of national solidarity that acts concretely on the daily lives of these people to make common where the hazards of life create fractures that, if we do not act, can become unfathomable. We must therefore assess as much as possible the avenues for improvement, in order to be able, if we deem it necessary, to make further adjustments to the Act of 11 February 2005. This bill is part of a political will. Indeed, Madam Secretary of State, for the first time, your portfolio is not attached to the Ministry of Social Affairs but to the Prime Minister. This is an expression of a strong political will. With your expertise, you have a strong ambition for people with disabilities: that of the ordinary community. We have been working for several years on inclusion – through school, through work, through everyday mobility. We must continue, in order to achieve your ambitious goal. To achieve this, it is therefore necessary to work in practice to improve ordinary living conditions – for example by facilitating access to compensatory benefits for those in need. We see that the departmental houses of disabled people – CDMH – are the cornerstone of territorial arrangements. In this capacity, we will have to study the report entrusted by the Head of Government to Jean-François Serres and to our colleague Adrien Taquet on administrative simplification in the field of disability. Reflecting on the needs of people throughout the life course, this report will also address the issue of access to compensation. Strong commitments were made, in 2016, at the Interdepartmental Disability Council, and we inherit them. We are well aware that we need to go further and we are awaiting the proposals in Adrien Taquet's report, which deal in particular with the need to update the PCH in order to bring it closer to the needs of each person. Thus, the bill proposed to us by Philippe Berta invites us, a few weeks away from the National Disability Council, to a broader reflection on the policy that we must carry out. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Group of the Republic on the move therefore hopes that the text discussed will benefit from the benevolence of the parliamentary groups. We are well aware that it is an additional stone to the construction of a true inclusive society, and that it is not the last. It will be up to us, together with the Government, to build on the extensive work carried out on this subject by the constituted bodies, civil society and the community to continue to make progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u74	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u75	Mr President, the Secretary of State, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we have met this afternoon to discuss a proposal for a law by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement aimed at improving the conditions for the award of disability compensation and, I would like to tell you at the outset, the Republican Group will support this proposal. The objective of this benefit, created by the Act of 11 February 2005, is to compensate as much as possible by national solidarity for the additional expenditure generated by disability. This is certainly right, but 13 years after it was put in place, it is aware of certain limitations, which your proposal intends to correct – at least in part. Two main measures are proposed. This is, first of all, the end of the age limit of 75 years, beyond which the applicant is denied the benefit of the disability compensation benefit, even if his disability was recognised before the age of 60, provided that he did not apply for it until after the age of 75. Secondly, your text proposes the introduction, in several departments, of an experiment aimed at reducing the remaining burden on persons with disabilities. These two objectives are designed to better compensate for disability and improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. Your first proposal, Mr rapporteur, is based on a finding that we all share: our seniors are living older and, to an even greater extent, the proportion of the French population with disabilities is also aging. Disability-related needs are changing with the ageing of people. Our duty is to ensure that national solidarity takes care of these needs. However, the disability compensation benefit now has two age limits. The first, set at 60 years, is of general scope, i.e. it applies to all: the request for the benefit of the PCH must be made before sixty years. At the time of the creation of this benefit, it was necessary to exclude from its benefit the disability that would arise as a result of the ageing of the population. We all agree, it seems to me, that we will have to go back to that limit. The second age limit – the one for your proposal – is a derogation limit. It allows a person whose disability occurred before the age of sixty to apply for the disability compensation benefit after that date, but before the age of seventy-five years, in two situations: if he or she met the conditions for receiving the disability compensation benefit before the age of sixty years, in which case he or she may claim the benefit until the age of seventy-five years, or if he or she is over sixty years of age and is still engaged in a professional activity. This limit of seventy-five years can no longer be justified today. Indeed, many people with disabilities may, for many years, not perceive the need for human assistance outside their homes and not seek the benefit of the PCH, but because of the ageing of the spouse or his or her death, the need for human assistance may be felt, as you have said very well, rapporteur. In this context, the limit of seventy-five years appears to be totally arbitrary and affects a large number of persons with disabilities. We cannot be satisfied with a situation in which, because a person has not used national solidarity before a certain age, he or she would be prevented from having access to it on the day when he or she really needs it. It is because we do not accept this situation and we are convinced that any disability must be compensated for what it represents for the people concerned and for their entourage, that the Republican Group will vote for this bill. Article 2 of the text aims to fill another gap in the law of 11 February 2005, revealed by the practice of the last thirteen years: the question of the remainder for the beneficiaries of the disability compensation benefit. Article L. 146-5, paragraph 2, of the Code of Social Action and Families expressly provides that the remainder shall not exceed 10% of the net tax resources of the beneficiary of the PCH. Today, however, due in particular to the limits of departmental disability compensation funds, this 10% limit is almost never reached. That's why you're proposing that we organise a three-year experiment in voluntary departments – The Secretary of State told us that there were – in order to assess the feasibility of a mechanism guaranteeing a maximum level of rest for both the departmental houses of disabled people and the main funders of the disability compensation fund. We are, of course, in favour of such an experiment, although it may ask a few questions. Indeed, if the 10% limit is almost never reached, as I showed you a few moments ago, it is mainly because the finances of the departments are not infinitely extensible. The departmental disability compensation funds are now financed by the departments and by a contribution from the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government. In the alternative, family allowance funds and regional councils may also abound these funds. By removing the age limit of seventy-five years and by seeking, by way of experiment, to make the limit of the remainder more effective, this draft law will necessarily have a significant influence on the finances of the departmental councils which is not, for the moment, compensated, at least not for the experiment proposed in Article 2. Because we are convinced that national solidarity must take full responsibility for caring for persons with disabilities, we will vote for this bill. But we will be particularly vigilant about its evaluation and the extension of the solutions that could follow this experiment throughout the territory, in order to limit its impact on the finances of the departmental councils and not to put them in any more difficulty. Their situation, as you know, Madam Secretary of State, is already sufficiently complicated. We will also be particularly vigilant about the capacity of the departmental houses of disabled people to be more responsive in the allocation of benefits. In the Committee on Social Affairs, you have told us, Mr rapporteur, that things are working very well in your department. I welcome this, of course, but this is not the case for all departmental disability houses: the time taken to investigate cases of persons with disabilities often remains too long and too time consuming. In this connection, I look forward to the proposals of our colleague Adrien Taquet: he will shortly be submitting to you, Madam Secretary of State, a report which, I hope, will be the beginning of a large number of measures to simplify all these procedures. Madam Secretary of State, you will always find us at your side whenever it comes to better supporting people with disabilities who need it. I am thinking of all these young children without a reception solution in institutions adapted to their situation. I am thinking of their parents, to whom they are fully entrusted and who, often, have to stop working in order to be able to assume the burden of their child: their distress is today very great, as you know, Madam Secretary of State. I am thinking of these adults with disabilities, of those who fail to find their place in this inclusive society that you defend and which I approve. I am thinking of the ageing disabled, to whom we must ensure a peaceful retirement and a dignified end to life. I am thinking of this capacity that we must give people with disabilities to move and live independently in our country: they must be able, like any citizen, to enjoy the quality of life to which we all aspire, as provided for in the 2005 law – I want to pay tribute to its authors. I am also thinking of all those who surround these people with disabilities, for whom so much remains to be done: they are the helpers, whom we are often talking about in our Committee on Social Affairs, and for whom we will have to find a compensation solution. I also expect Mr Dharréville's proposals to return to the agenda of the Committee on Social Affairs. I am thinking of medical research and of all these researchers who are stepping up efforts to prevent disabilities, especially those of children or those who are about to be born, reducing the risks and consequences of all disabilities. Madam Secretary of State, I know that you are aware of this and I agree with the measures you have put forward for children, but also for adults with autism. I will follow with particular attention their evolution. I also appreciate all measures to improve the means of persons with disabilities, such as your proposal, Mr rapporteur, or the increase planned for 1 November next year in the allowance for adults with disabilities. But it is also an opportunity for me to ask you again about a question that I have already asked you but for which I consider that I have not obtained an answer: what will be the amount of the ceiling for couples? If it is not increased, it may exclude or put in difficulty many people who will lose all or part of the benefit of this allowance, when they are in great need of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u76	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u77	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are looking at our colleague Philippe Berta's proposal for a law aimed at improving the disability compensation benefit, removing the age limit for its access and conducting an experiment to reduce the remaining burden on the beneficiaries of the PCH. This text makes certain progress, which represents, for its Article 1, an investment of 69 million euros per year for 8,700 potential beneficiaries and puts an end to a situation which caused a real break in equality between individuals. The thresholds, which are real age barriers, are in fact particularly unfair and unsuitable for today's society. They are unfair because, beyond the age of sixty, it is no longer possible to apply for PCH, with the exception of a number of criteria that are both complex and too numerous. This system has been denounced by many associations representing people with disabilities, not only for the PCH, but also for those seeking the individualized autonomy allowance, who suffer from the same breach of equality as a result of these age limits. These are unsuitable for today's society, because work shows that the trend of the average life expectancy of people with disabilities is higher than that of the French population as a whole. The ageing of persons with disabilities, like that of the rest of the population, is a sustainable phenomenon. The key figures for self-government aid published in 2016 by CNSA show an increase of more than two years for women and men benefiting from self-government aid between 2000 and 2013. For years, the medical and social sector has become aware of the phenomenon: the DREES 2010 Social Establishments Survey shows that the proportion of people aged 50 and over in medical and social institutions increased between 2006 and 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, we must truly understand the universal nature of disability. I am not talking here, even if the issue should be addressed, about the universal accessibility of buildings and urban space, administrative services or digital technology. No, I'm talking about the intrinsic nature of disability. This phenomenon can affect us, you, me and each of our fellow citizens, in a more or less lasting way. France records the birth of 15,000 disabled children every year, or about 2 per cent of births. The aging of the population and the emergence of new diseases require society to find new answers to include everyone, regardless of age or disability, and to support them when they have no choice but to seek help from our community. It is thus our collective responsibility to think of this inclusive society, whose concept is now widely democratised but which nevertheless covers concrete realities. Whether as a result of an accident in life, due to the effects of aging – such as the loss of functional capacity that can already be altered as a result of a disability – or a consequence of the onset of an age-related disease – neurodegenerative disease, metabolic disease, which can aggravate already pregnant alterations or cause new ones – the needs of people with disabilities are changing and intensifying. Often, if a disability is not synonymous with a total loss of self-reliance for a person, it is because of a caring relative – the spouse or a family member. The November 2016 report of the IGAS – General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – on the evolution of the disability compensation benefit shows that this barrier penalizes those who did not consider it useful to apply for the PCH before their seventy-five years but who find themselves, beyond that, in difficulty due to a change in their environment, such as the aging or death of the spouse through which they received indispensable human assistance. This progress made by the Government and our majority is an additional step, which we will vote without hesitation, as it is also a step towards understanding the path of the person with disabilities throughout his or her life. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must take a date to honour the commitment of the President of the Republic to the construction of a transversal and structural plan to deal with dependency. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Recognition of the helper, improvement of home care solutions, end of the thresholds for all the aids and in particular those which make up for the ageing of the population and of the disabled: there are many construction sites. As the objectives are shared on all the benches of this House, we will be able to achieve this, I am sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u78	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u79	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law on improving disability compensation is based on two articles. The first, which aims to remove the age barrier at seventy-five years in access to PCH, reconciles common sense and support for our elders; So I can only rejoice. The second, aimed at organising an experiment in voluntary departments, in order to reduce the remaining burden on the beneficiaries of the PCH, seems to me, in more than one way, more problematic. Let's go back a little bit. The Act of 2005 establishes departmental disability compensation funds to limit the remaining dependants of persons with disabilities to 10 per cent of their income. However, it turns out that successive governments have never published the implementing decree, leaving people with disabilities in desperate financial situations. By definition, experiments cannot be equated with concrete, viable and immediate commitments; Therefore, they cannot respond to the urgency. There is an urgent need for the policy's primary role in ensuring respect for the law and its proper implementation. The actors on the ground expect national representation and the state to assume their responsibilities as of this year. Is it not problematic to postpone the possible application of a legislative provision voted in 2005 to 2021? The question of compensation for the rest of the burden on persons with disabilities, which is therefore raised in Article 2 of this text, calls to look at very concrete realities on the ground with regard to the situation of persons with disabilities and departments. In fact, the heavier the disability, the less it is reimbursed by the health insurance. This situation shows how hard it is for people with disabilities to fight for the same rights. In addition, more and more beneficiaries of the PCH are being called for by the paying services of the departmental councils, who may sometimes reach several thousand euros, causing great distress among recipients who are not accustomed to being claimed such sums. According to a 2014 AFM-Telethon study, out of 477 electric chair purchase projects, only 57% of the average cost – €23,000 – was funded by Social Security and PCH. Salty, the note turns out to be more disparate, according to the department of residence. This is the situation of the departments. In the face of the continuing decline in State allocations, the latter must constantly make choices between the various social expenditure under their responsibility. As a result, according to a 2015 Court of Auditors report, the average expenditure per beneficiary is more than €6,800 in the best-in-class departments and less than €3500 in the lowest-class departments. According to the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy, several reasons explain these disparities, starting with the socio-economic characteristics of the department: without surprise, the higher the per capita tax potential, the more generous social policies on disability are. We are at the heart of the matter. In the face of these disparities, the time has come for greater harmonization between the various departments in calculating the reimbursement of technical aid and in calculating the PCH. It is time to consolidate the unity and indivisibility of our Republic. What is national solidarity, if not the idea that the best-off territories support the most vulnerable, if not the idea of a certain territorial equity defended and promoted by the State? The subject we are discussing this afternoon therefore calls for an overall vision and a requirement for clarity and continuity in public action. Last November, recognizing that "a greater knowledge of technical aids and their cost was needed to determine the measures to be taken", the Government committed itself on two fronts: to reactivate the Observatory on the market and prices of technical aids and to mobilise DREES to carry out a survey on the beneficiaries of the PCH. In a context where the State mobilizes its services to measure the level of the remaining dependants of persons with disabilities, how can we commit ourselves to an experiment aimed at reducing this remaining burden? Either we wait for the responses of the State services to improve the scheme, or we demand, as soon as possible, its full implementation; but it is necessary to decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u80	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u81	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, disability is first and foremost an individual story, a story that upsets the course of a life, of a sibling, of a family, but it is also a history of society – our history. Today, disability affects nearly 12 million French. Unemployment affects people with disabilities more than the French average: about 19 per cent, compared with 10 per cent for the valid labour force. Access to employment is compounded by difficulties in access to housing, culture and citizenship. Another situation to be deplored is that many children with disabilities are now without a school solution. There is therefore an urgent need to act in favour of persons with disabilities. Our MODEM colleagues' bill is fully in line with this need to act against these inequalities in our country. Its two articles tend to strengthen the purchasing power of persons with disabilities, on the one hand by removing the age limit to apply for the disability compensation benefit, which is currently fixed by decree at seventy-five years, on the other hand, by introducing an experiment aimed at limiting the remainder to 10% for the beneficiaries of the PCH. I am convinced that these measures are in the right direction, since they will undoubtedly help people with disabilities to better meet their human and material needs, although improvements will certainly still have to be imagined and made. Above all, this text is in line with the actions of the Government and the majority, which have been active for a year now in favour of an inclusive society. At the September 2017 Interministerial Disability Committee, the Government had set important lines of work. Firstly, it intended to facilitate access to rights, in particular through the gradual increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities, the simplification of administrative procedures and the simplification of the functioning of the CDMH; This is what our colleague Adrien Taquet is working on, who is due to submit his report very soon – in a few days, I think. Secondly, we must welcome and support, from the crèche to the university, an ambition that is embodied, among other things, in the autism plan, the encouraging announcements made by the Secretary of State, particularly in school matters – I am thinking of the upgrading of school life assistants – and the reform of learning, which we are currently considering in the Assembly. Thirdly, access to employment, particularly in the ordinary environment, should be facilitated by simplifying the obligation to employ disabled workers, renovating the suitable sector and mobilising the public employment service. Fourthly, persons with disabilities must be able to live at home and maintain themselves in good health, through housing measures and the establishment of periodic health check-ups; The development of telemedicine will also be a factor for inclusion. Fifthly, they must be actresses in the city, through the development of tools to move, access sport, leisure, culture. On all these issues, the Government intends to act throughout the quinquennium. All initiatives and contributions are welcome. This is the case with this bill, which is part of this process. The two proposed measures respond to requests from disability actors; They are supported by the Government and by our majority. This text responds to the logic of social equity that we have been applying since the beginning of the legislature, through actions that enable us to act effectively and concretely in the service of people with disabilities. More than ever, we need to change the perspective of our society on disability. This one is not the business of some, it is the business of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u82	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u83	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why we will support this text, which is part of building an inclusive society and a culture of universality for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u84	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u85	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on the bill tabled by the MODEM Group on improving disability compensation. Because disability affects 12 million French, 12 million citizens of the Republic, it has been established as a priority of the quinquennium since the beginning of the legislature. In order to move towards an ever more inclusive society, the Government has chosen a comprehensive and inter-ministerial policy to improve the living conditions and resources of persons with disabilities. This proactive policy is built through many stages. As the special rapporteur of the budget for the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities", I have to look at programme 157 on disability and dependency. The budget devoted to disability, and more broadly to national solidarity, reflects the commitments of our majority. Despite a constrained budgetary context, we have, on the occasion of the draft finance law, re-aligned the allowance for adults with disabilities significantly: from 810 euros to 860 euros in November 2018, and then to 900 euros at the end of 2019. The Government has thus decided to allocate more than €2 billion in additional funding for disability throughout the quinquennium. I had the opportunity to welcome this decision in the autumn; I'm doing it again today. However, there is still fighting and action to be taken in favour of a more inclusive and respectful society. I am convinced that we are taking another step forward today with this bill. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Philippe Berta, for dealing with this important issue. Established by the Act of 11 February 2005, the PCH gives effect to the right of every disabled person to be "compensated" for the consequences of his or her disability in the light of his or her life plan. This scheme, which superimposed itself on ordinary aid or specific aid, contributes to the financing of certain expenditure directly related to disability. On the basis of the findings made since the enactment of the 2005 Act, the bill on which we are called upon to rule is intended to improve the existing system. It is based in particular on the recommendations made by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs in the context of the evaluation of the PCH which it carried out at the end of the previous quinquennium. Article 1 of the proposed law is in the direction of better social justice, by removing the age limit for access to the PCH. As has been said, this measure would have an estimated budget cost of EUR 69 million and would benefit 9,000 people. Article 2 responds to one observation: the application of the system introduced by the 2005 Act is now too variable from one department to another. The amount of the PCH may vary from 1 to more than 3, depending on the departments. In addition, there is a wide variety of operations in departmental compensation funds, which creates territorial injustices. This is why Article 2 provides for an experiment in some departments to reduce the remaining burden on the beneficiaries of the PCH. The question arises of the financing of this experiment. As has already been done in the field of experimentation, the State could finance the additional expenditure. I assume you will enlighten us on this point, Madam Secretary of State. From this perspective, I have no doubt that many departments will be candidates for experimentation, as they have seen their spending on PCH increase over the last ten years, and as much as they aspire to greater national solidarity in this area. This article will allow us to benefit from a precise assessment of the financial cost of the measure as well as the scope of application of the Order to regulate the rest of the dependents for the beneficiaries of the PCH. The aim is to make expenditure more responsible and to enable the expected decree, or any other text, to be drafted in order to reduce the disparities between departments as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] At last September's Interministerial Committee on Disability, the Government and the majority took very strong action in favour of an inclusive society. The present bill goes in the same direction, that of inclusion and the necessary solidarity towards the most fragile. It must also be part of the preparation of the expected Order in Council for the remainder of the dependants for the beneficiaries of the PCH. For these reasons, we support Philippe Berta's initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u86	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u87	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u88	Mrs Mireille Robert, who is on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u89	In order to assert its rights to the disability compensation benefit, there are currently two conditions: to apply for it before the age of seventy-five, and to have the disability recognized before the age of sixty. Article 1, by removing the age limit of 75 years, gives additional possibilities to apply for disability compensation, thus guaranteeing access to human and technical aids, accommodation and other specific aids for all persons with disabilities. This is a real step forward in taking life paths into account for the people concerned, as well as for families, caregivers and accompaniment professionals. This will enable older persons with disabilities, including persons with mental disabilities, to assert their rights to disability compensation even after years, when families who volunteered to support the person are no longer there, or are no longer physically able to take care of them – I mean families who refused to be compensated, indicating that it was normal to look after their brothers and sisters, their spouses, their children. However, it will be necessary to consider those persons whose mental or physical disability is declared after 60 years and who, in the current state of the legislation, cannot claim the benefit of compensation for the disability, but must apply for the personalized allowance of autonomy, much less advantageous. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] My participation in the DuoDay last April reinforced my conviction that the changing needs of people with disabilities should be better taken into account. This article represents progress in view of the precarious nature of their resources and their family situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u90	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u91	With this amendment, I simply wish to lift the pledge of the second paragraph of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u92	[[Smile]] You're lucky at MODEM! This never happens to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u93	I have before me a series of amendments containing additional articles after Article 1. Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u94	This is a request for a report – I will have others. This report would cover the subject I mentioned earlier: the human aid part of the PCH. Currently, this benefit excludes domestic assistance. As a result, we find ourselves in ubiquitous situations that are incomprehensible to the people concerned: a worker comes to the home, helps with meals, but he cannot prepare or do the dishes. We would therefore like the Government to provide us with a report on the possibility of extending the scope of the service.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u95	Mrs Bareigts, would you like to present all your requests for a report, or would you prefer us to deal with them one by one?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u96	[[Smile]] I would like to present them in a grouped manner, Mr.President: so the Government could give us a single, comprehensive report!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u97	So you have the floor to support Amendments Nos 9, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u98	On the basis of the idea I put forward in my speech in the general discussion, Amendment No 9 seeks to request a second report on the extension of the scope of the disability compensation benefit to parental support, as part of the costs associated with the need for human assistance. Today, the human assistance part of the PCH does not as such include the assistance that parents with disabilities could receive to accompany them in parenting-related acts. In addition to the fact that local practices are often very different, they are sometimes violent. An association told me of a reality on the ground: a disabled mother who could not benefit from this assistance was offered as a solution the placement of her child. If we open the provision of compensation for the disability "human assistance" to support parenthood, we accept and confirm that raising a child is one of the essential acts of existence. Amendment No 10 seeks to request a third report on the coverage by the PCH of persons with mental, cognitive or mental disabilities who are not currently eligible. As you know, the December 2016 Interdepartmental Disability Committee wanted to remedy this – the former government had organised a first working meeting to consider the extension of this service. I would point out that Appendix 2-5 of the Code of Social Action and Families mentions the only essential needs related to the body. Extending the PCH to psychic, cognitive or mental disability would result in its modification. Finally, at the time of its creation in 2008, the PCH was not sufficiently adapted to the specificities of disability in children. Since then, the associations have called for the resumption of work on the definition of needs that would be covered by a truly adapted PCH, in particular on the scalability of the situation specific to these children. Amendment No 11 therefore calls for a report to be submitted to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u100	I shall endeavour to make a single reply on these five amendments, including Amendment No 12, which has not yet been defended but which also seeks to request a report. I do not want to neglect them, because they raise real difficulties which the associations have often alerted us to. The General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, IGAS, recently published – in November 2016 – a report that largely responds to the themes that are the subject of the requests for reports that you are submitting to us today. This report deals in particular with the non-inclusion in the field of the PCH of the response to the needs of daily life, in particular domestic help – this is your amendment No 8. IGAS also devotes a long period of development to parenting support, and advocates various measures to improve parenting support for people with disabilities – this is your Amendment No. 9. The failure of the PCH to adapt to children is also mentioned in this report of the IGAS, but also in another, which dates from July 2016, on the evaluation of the education allowance of the disabled child – this is your amendment No 11. In addition, there is already an IGAS report of August 2011 on the management of mental disability, and another report on the same subject, older – it dates from 2002 – by Michel Charzat – is your amendment No 10. Finally, a study by the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics, DREES, dated August 2011, is devoted to the beneficiaries of the third-party compensation allowance – ACTP – and the PCH – that is Amendment No 12, which you have not yet presented. I therefore do not think that new reports on these matters are absolutely essential. We already know that parental support is insufficient, that the PCH, for children, is inadequate, that the care of the psychological handicap is imperfect, that the failure to take into account domestic assistance in the human aid part of the PCH is problematic. Your amendments have the merit of pointing out several shortcomings of the law of 11 February 2005. I hope that the subjects that you have mentioned in these amendments will be at the heart of the discussions that will open in a few weeks' time at the national conference on disability and that legislative and regulatory measures will be taken quickly. I do not think that new reports are necessary, and I would ask you to withdraw your amendments. Otherwise, of course, I will express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u102	As the rapporteur has said very well, Mrs Bareigts' requests for reports are already met by the various reports which have just been mentioned and which provide very precise answers. I would therefore ask you to withdraw these amendments. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u103	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u104	Thank you for your opinion, Mr rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State. I have proposed reports in order not to fall within the scope of Article 40 and to raise debate here again, which is known. I hope that we will continue to make progress, as we are doing today through our colleague's bill. That was the meaning of these requests for reports. These subjects are extremely painful and concrete for families. The road must be continued, and I know, Madam Secretary of State, that you are fully aware of this. You, too, want to move step by step on this road where there are obstacles to the full integration of people with disabilities by extending their rights. We are in the country of human rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u105	Do you withdraw these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u106	I keep them, as a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u107	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u108	I wanted to distinguish this request for a report on the situation of those who opted to maintain the third-party compensatory allowance. On the ground, I know well the problems related to age in terms of access to the law, legal understanding, choice between ACTP and PCH: the technicality is extreme. An explanation and accompaniment effort must undoubtedly be made in favour of these people when they have to choose. I have encountered such situations in my constituency; That is why I wanted to present this request for a separate report.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u109	The rapporteur and the Government therefore gave an opinion against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u110	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u111	The Act of 2005 provides that the compensation costs incurred by the beneficiary of the disability compensation benefit may not exceed 10 per cent of his or her net personal income tax, under conditions defined by a decree which has not been published. While in reality some leftovers sometimes exceed 10%, article 2 of this bill provides for an experiment aimed at measuring and reducing the cost of the remainder to low-income beneficiaries. This is a real challenge for the effective implementation of this right to compensation, which, together with other common law mechanisms, contributes to the inclusion of people. Departmental compensation funds have been established. They allow us to limit the remaining costs of these compensation costs, but in recent years their operation has been the subject of questions. The funds allocated by the agencies are still insufficient and vary by department. The lack of publication of the implementing decree on the remainder leads each departmental fund to establish its own allocation rules, rules which reveal a great heterogeneity of departmental situations and a problem of equity in the territories. Today, this remains mainly due to technical aids and other necessary improvements in housing, but tomorrow it will concern ageing disabled people, who will increasingly be using human assistance as part of their home care. More broadly, support for people in more inclusive habitat will become a necessity. Sustainable, alternative and complementary support to medical and social institutions and services will be provided, and human aid financed by the provision of compensation for the favoured disability. [[Applause some of the benches of the LaREM group]] This Article 2 is welcome. This is a first step in the national evaluation of this remaining compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u112	Mr. Jacques Marilossian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u113	I wonder, Madam Secretary of State: is it a matter of moving towards a zero-charged remnant, as for hearing or dental prostheses? In addition, during the Article 1 interventions, an estimate was made by the Directorate-General for Social Cohesion, DGCS, of the number of beneficiaries and the total amount. Do we already have, before the experiment, an estimate of the total budget to cover the remainder? From my point of view, this experiment has only one interest: to finalize the operating procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u114	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u115	As everyone knows, this section 2 is intended to reduce the remaining burden on PCH beneficiaries. To this end, a three-year experiment is planned in the voluntary departments to assess the feasibility of a mechanism ensuring a minimum level of remaining burden. The evaluation of the experiment should make it possible to measure the impact of this system, including financial ones, and its possible generalisation in relation to the objectivation of needs. Our amendment proposes to make a step point, after a year of experimentation, before the Social Affairs Committees of the National Assembly and the Senate, so that an evaluation can provide the first elements of analysis, modelling, in order to be able to adjust this experiment if necessary and, who knows, accelerate its generalization if this proves possible. This will in any case demonstrate a genuine desire to follow up on the development of this system, which has raised real expectations for so long.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u117	The aim of this amendment is to achieve a milestone after one year, which would make it possible to inform the National Assembly at a minimum about the publication of the decree specifying the procedures for the implementation of the experiment, its content, and about the departments which have applied for it. I find this relevant, and I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u118	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u119	Appreciating the financial impact of a possible generalisation with regard to the objectivation of needs, but also the management impact of this scheme for these fund managers, which are the Departmental Houses of Persons with Disabilities – CDMH – seems absolutely legitimate and relevant to me. We therefore support your amendment. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u120	I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u121	I have already had the opportunity to say earlier on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, as I did in the Committee on Social Affairs last week, that I was not convinced by the reply to my proposal to bring the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH – to SMIC level. Ladies and gentlemen, the timid upgrading of the Government's allocation is clearly insufficient. By planning to gradually increase it to 900 euros, this government and its majority are trying to give themselves a more social accent. However, and despite everything that has been said, this measure is well below the real challenges it should address. By limiting this increase, the Government is enduring a situation that cannot be sustained. Despite this improvement of some tens of euros, the allowance for adults with disabilities is in fact kept below the poverty line. Despite a social colouration, the majority agreed that one million beneficiaries would receive income that would not allow them to emerge from poverty. That's what we're calling into question! Yet, disability is not the responsibility of the person who suffers it. Compensation for the resulting loss of income is therefore based on national solidarity. It is up to the community to provide every means of subsistence. This principle is based on the preamble to the Constitution, as I had the opportunity to recall a few minutes ago. The programme we are defending therefore proposes that this allocation be upgraded to the level of the SMIC. By this amendment, we request that the Government provide parliamentarians with a report on the cost of such a measure. This request commits the Government only to one thing: to show that it is open to proposals made to it. It would be a good idea for him to respond favourably, so that we can work on this hypothesis.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u123	This request is outside the scope of the PCH, which is the subject of this bill. I would like to recall that the 2018 Finance Act foresees an unprecedented increase in the AAH. This allowance, which was EUR 810 per month on 1 April 2017, has been EUR 819 since 1 April 2018, which will increase to EUR 860 on 1 November 2018 and to EUR 900 per month in 2019. This represents an increase of 90 euros in the space of less than two years. By way of comparison, I would point out that this allocation had increased by only EUR 50 during the previous quinquennium. This significant effort in favour of persons with disabilities should be commended. This increase is all the more significant given that it has been decided in a budgetary context which we all know is under pressure. I am therefore against your amendment, since important provisions, which have not yet fully entered into force, were adopted last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u124	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u125	On the basis of the same arguments, the Government also issues an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u126	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u127	For my part, I consider that the upgrading of the allowance for adults with disabilities, even if it will remain in fine, i.e. on 1 November 2019, below the poverty line, is an important effort. The President of the Republic had pledged to increase it by 100 euros, it will increase by 90 euros: I will not meggle on this gap. On the other hand, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to come back to a question that I have already asked you in a question-and-answer session in the Government in November 2017, concerning the situation of couples with a disability. We have already had this debate, because several bills have been tabled, which proposed that the spouse's income should not be taken into account in calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. What worries me, in the immediate future, is that the decision to increase the AAH – by 50 euros on 1 November 2018, and then by 40 euros on 1 November 2019 – is not accompanied by an increase in the AAH ceiling for a couple, which remains set at 1620 euros – twice 810 euros. What I fear is that the increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities which you propose, and which I agree with, I repeat, does in fact lead to a reduction in the incomes of a number of people or even to the removal of some of them from this system. You explained to me, when I asked you about this, that you were going to find a smoothing system to avoid this effect, but I humbly admit that I do not understand how it will work. And I can tell you that this is a matter of concern to a large number of beneficiaries of the adult disability allowance and a large number of associations, who would really need to be reassured on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u128	On Amendment No 5, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u129	By this amendment, we call on the Government to submit a report to Parliament on the consequences of removing the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the allowance for adults with disabilities. We had tabled an amendment proposing that the spouse's income should no longer be taken into account, but it was found inadmissible under Article 40. That is why we propose here that within six months of the enactment of the law, the Government should submit a report assessing the cost of removing the spouse's income from the calculation of the AAH. This could lead us to make the decision that all the actors in the field of disability are waiting for and allow you, Madam Secretary of State, to answer the question that Mr Lurton has been asking you for the last few months.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u131	This amendment, like the previous one, does not concern the PCH. The abolition of the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities was the subject of a recent bill tabled by Marie-George Buffet in March. I know that the exclusion of the spouse's income from the calculation base is a claim by associations defending the rights of persons with disabilities. However, the AHA is a financial assistance that ensures a minimum of resources. It would therefore be difficult to exclude the spouse's income, whereas it is taken into account in the calculation of other social minimums. I would also remind you that the AAH will experience an unprecedented increase to 900 euros per month in 2019. For all these reasons, I shall express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u133	When we look at the finance bill, we can come back to these issues and I can give you all the explanations you're looking for on how to calculate. The Government's opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u134	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u135	We have already had this debate on the AAH and the problems of taking into account the spouse's income. I recall that our former colleague, Christophe Sirugue, had devoted a very detailed report to social minima. On that occasion, he had stressed that it would be quite wrong to assimilate the AAH to the other social minima and to adopt its calculation methods, since the AAH had nothing by its nature to do with them. Therefore, if our colleague does not withdraw his amendment, I would like to tell him that I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u136	I put Amendment No. 5 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u137	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u138	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u139	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u140	The next item is the debate on the bill by Messrs. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille and Philippe Berta on the random designation of personal protection committees (No. 847, 908).
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u141	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u142	Mr President, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the agenda of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has several objectives, which I shall list in order of importance: firstly, to ensure that patients benefit from the most innovative forms of care – one person told me today, in the corridors of this House, that one of his loved ones benefited from a research protocol; subsequently fluidize the important research carried out by hospitals and universities, whose competence is recognized and who are currently penalized; Finally, to improve the attractiveness of our country in clinical trials. In this context, our group believes that the authorisation procedure for clinical trials in France can be improved. The Committees for the Protection of Persons – CPC – are an essential body for the ethical evaluation of research projects involving a human being. Since Jardé law, the CPCs to examine them have been designated by lot. This procedure is motivated both by the desire to avoid conflicts of interest biasing the assessment and by the need to spread the workload among the 39 CPCs in our country. All those interviewed, like us, wanted to maintain the existing framework for obvious reasons of legal stability, but also as a matter of principle, in order to avoid conflicts of interest. In this spirit, the bill adopted by the committee aims at fluidizing the review procedure by the CPCs, which is enclosed within 45 days. I would like to go back to the amendments that have been made by our committee and to some of the debates that have taken place within it. The purpose of the bill is to facilitate the examination of cases by the CPCs without calling into question the principle of drawing lots. The Commission has therefore amended the single article to adjust the drawing by lot among the PPCs actually available and able to mobilise within them or through their networks the skills essential to the examination of the research project. With regard to availability, it does not seem useful to refer a file to a PPC whose workload plan is already important. With respect to jurisdiction, the aim is to ensure that the file is reviewed by a PPC in a position to evaluate the project. I welcome the near-unanimity that prevailed over the adoption of these amendments. However, I would like to return to some of the questions raised during our debates in committee. First of all, this draft does not call into question the principle of drawing lots. Nor does anyone dispute the need for an ethical evaluation of a research file. However, it must be noted that, in the case of renewable bodies every three years and made up of voluntary members, it is not always possible to bring together the skills necessary for the evaluation of the dossier. In committee, I had taken the example of research on minors: almost half of the CPCs do not include paediatricians, yet this is a legal obligation and an ethical imperative; the terms of consent must be clearly defined. With the proposed law, it will be possible to adjust the draw by lot in order to rule out CPCs that do not include paediatricians within them and are unable to mobilise them via their network. The drawing of lots will therefore take place between the PPCs able to respond. It is clear that there is no question of the principle of drawing lots, and even less of a proven risk of conflicts of interest; On the contrary, it is a matter of ensuring the effectiveness of ethical assessment. We were also told that a delay of a few months was not very serious: it would be enough to re-orient the file to another CPC, and then to re-run it. It is a lack of respect for students and research teams, but it is also a lack of knowledge of the intensity of competition in this field, as well as the reality of innovation cycles. I would point out that while many clinical trials concern the drug, it is important not to forget the trials of medical devices, often developed by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which owe their survival only to the development of their product and are often in niche markets. Add to this the shortness of innovation cycles: 18 months! A delay of one or more months could call into question the viability of the business. All this is concrete and is measured in terms of job losses and closures. Because it doesn't seem to me annoyed, I plead for an intelligent drawing device. I would add that these delays have significant practical effects. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to European developments affecting medicinal products. According to the European regulation that will soon be applied, any failure to respond within the time limit – forty-five days – will be worth accepting the project, while silence today is a rejection! We should therefore be unanimous in supporting this bill. We need to have the most relevant procedure and ensure that the review is carried out on time. Not adapting the draw to the lot is precisely to promote the emergence of risks for patient safety and ethical assessment. What is now valid for medicinal products could also be valid for other research projects, including those involving medical devices. In view of these major developments, the answer we are providing is in my view the most relevant. This bill is the only vehicle available for rapid change. After discussion, the Ministry of Health agreed with our proposal, with some adjustments that we made by way of amendments. Madam Minister, I welcome the convergence of views that prevailed during the preparatory work. Beyond that, allow me to refer to other proposals for improvement that were spontaneously made during the hearings. I am thinking in particular of the means of operation of the CPCs – is it possible to operate with only one full-time equivalent for the secretariat? I am also thinking of the recognition of the journeys of members of the CPCs, who act on a voluntary basis, or of the identification of experts via a national list to facilitate the work of the CPCs. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] On all these issues, expectations are strong. It is up to the executive to provide answers – no legislative changes are necessary, but I wanted to mention them here because these requests seem to me to be legitimate, as we are on the eve of the full renewal of the membership of the CPCs.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u143	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u144	Mr President, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law before you today aims to increase the efficiency of the drawing of lots of personal protection committees, a procedure which must be followed by any research promoter – academic or industrial – involving the human person in order to obtain an ethical opinion on his research project. I would like first of all to thank the authors of this bill, which deals with a major topic for French clinical research, and which contributes usefully to one of the Government's priorities: to maintain and strengthen France's attractiveness in research involving the human person, while ensuring the safety of those who lend themselves to it. France is among the three most attractive European countries in terms of research, alongside Germany and Great Britain, although in recent years it has been lagging behind in phase 1 clinical trials. We must make up for this delay and keep our ranks, but we must also go beyond it, because our country has the means to be a world leader in clinical research. For this reason, the strengthening of the attractiveness of French research is one of the areas of work of the Strategic Council of Health Industries, led by the Prime Minister. This attractiveness is also an important lever of access to medical progress. Taking action in this area requires the mobilisation of all actors: on the one hand, that of the National Agency for the Safety of Medicinal Products and Health Products, ANSM, which has already adapted its organisation by setting up a pilot operating phase meeting the requirements of the European Regulation on clinical trials of medicinal products, in particular with regard to time limits for authorisation; on the other hand, that of the research promoters and of course of the CPCs. I would like to point out that the members of these committees, who are volunteers, despite the difficulties encountered, carry out their mission with a dedication that must be welcomed. Your bill provides a solution to a point of crystallization of the implementation, in November 2016, of the reform of research involving the human person, namely the mechanism for assigning the research file to a CPC, in a purely random way, by an information system. It allows us to maintain the strong ethical requirement that was legitimately required in the setting up of this draw, that is, the absence of any conflict of interest: it is a matter of improving the drawing by lot, certainly not of calling it into question. At the same time, however, it responds to the desire of the sick and healthcare professionals involved in the search to access innovative treatments as soon as possible, where possible. It is certain that the drawing of lots has resulted in an extension of the rendering of the opinions of the CPCs; It has also led, in some disciplines, to a loss of quality of the opinions rendered. It has also led to a sudden change in the organization of some CPCs, which are struggling to cope with a now continuous flow of files, taking into account the dates of meetings previously set. He highlighted the fact that some PPCs do not have competence for complex or specific projects – such as the paediatric trials you mentioned, rapporteur, but also for rare diseases: this prevents them from taking decisions within the regulatory deadlines. That is why I fully agree with you on the need to reform the draw by lot of the PPCs by weighing the randomity by the two criteria of competence and availability of committees. These findings are also shared by the National Commission for Research involving the Human Person, the CNRIPH, which is placed with me and which has been working since its installation in June 2017 to improve the functioning of the CPCs. It should also be recalled that our work is part of a changing European regulatory framework: European regulations on clinical trials of medicinal products and on medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices will enter into force in 2020 and 2022 respectively. These future European regulations provide that a PPC that does not respond in a timely manner would by default give a favourable opinion. This would be detrimental to the safety of persons who voluntarily lend themselves to clinical trials. It is therefore essential to allow PPCs to deliver quality notices on time, and that is what your proposed legislation will allow. I am also committed to making every effort, both from a regulatory and a practical point of view, to ensure that your proposal can be applied as quickly as possible. In this connection, Mr rapporteur, you suggest a number of very concrete measures, which do not fall within the scope of legislation, and which, in your view, would contribute to improving the functioning of the CPCs. You're right. I therefore commit myself, Mr rapporteur, to providing additional funding to the CPCs from this year onwards, in order to strengthen permanent staff. These staff are the cornerstone of the operation of the PPCs and I welcome their professional commitment. In addition, my services have already begun reflections on how to better value the careers of PPC members. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you can see, our work is aimed at the same goal and I am sure that we will succeed together in strengthening French clinical research for the benefit of the patients who need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now turn to the general debate. Let me make a point earlier on the organization of our work. I know that many of you would like to finish the discussion of this text this afternoon, even if we were to extend our sitting somewhat. However, you should be aware that the duration of the general debate is estimated at one and a half hours, which we have only four amendments to consider, but that the constraints of the agenda will force us to adjourn the sitting at twenty-ten. You now have all the necessary information: I let everyone notify. Of course, there is no question for me of holding the debate. Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u146	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, there are thousands of patients in our hospitals for whom we do not have treatments on the market, thousands of patients for whom the performance of French health research is a vital issue, thousands of patients in palliative care for whom participation in a clinical trial can be a last hope of improving their health or even remission. It is for them, above all for them, that we cannot tolerate our clinical trials flying to other countries. We must also preserve our research. Academic and industrial research in biology and health is one of the main sources of French publications and patents; The aim is to market new medicines, mainly now in the form of bio-drugs, but also new diagnostic tools and biomarkers or new medical devices, whether implantable or not. The ecosystem of this research, made up of alliances between the public and the private, is essential both for medical progress, the dynamism of our start-ups and the financing of our laboratories and hospitals – essential, but fragile. However, clinical trials are an essential link. Finally, it is for the economy and employment that we must act. Health innovations contribute fully, through the big pharmaceutical companies, known as Big Pharma, but also biotechs, medtechs and hundreds of TPEs and SMEs of the medical device, to the wealth of our country. The world of health is most competitive. Any delay puts at risk the competitiveness and therefore the sustainability of our companies, or our ability to attract foreign companies to our territory. This system ranges from the researcher's doorstep to the patient's bed, and if hundreds of thousands of euros are involved in the development of a medical device, it is millions of euros that will be involved in the development of a medicine. More than 60% of the trials have left France in the last 12 months. What's going on? Various reports have revealed a significant bottleneck in the procedure for authorising patient trials, known as clinical or therapeutic trials, which causes delays in placing on the market. If the source of these delays is not unique, the drawing by lot of the personal protection committees, introduced by amendment in the Jardé Act, and entered into force in 2016, is a certain factor. Indeed, this lottery does not ensure that the CPC seized for the authorisation of testing a medical innovation has the necessary skills, either internally or externally, to guarantee the quality of the evaluation carried out. This results in malfunctions, divestitures and, of course, delays. Let us be concrete: when a sponsor, public or private, wishes to place a new drug, or a new medical device, on the market, it must first carry out three phases of clinical trials to ensure the proper functioning of its innovation. It must first obtain a green light from the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products, in scientific terms, and from a CPC, on ethical aspects. Both bodies investigate the files, possibly in parallel, and allow or not to launch the tests. Since the entry into force of the Jardé Act, one of the 39 CPCs has been drawn by lot for the study of the protocol. This random designation is not without impact: the designated PPC does not always have the time to review the file within the statutory time frame, nor the ability to use expertise to assist it in making its decisions. I let you appreciate the consequences of this major malfunction. The mechanism proposed today by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, as amended in the Committee on Social Affairs, intends to address this dual problem of competence and availability. I tabled an amendment in committee to replace the term "competence" with the term "expertise" in the original wording. It is not a question of prejudging or not prejudging the incompetence of a particular PPC, but rather of determining whether the PPC is able to mobilize a required specialty among its members or network. It is a fundamental condition for decisions to be not only quick and effective, but especially relevant and appropriate to the research project, and – which is of primary interest to us – to protect the well-being of patients. I would like to mention one example, that of the 8000 rare diseases mainly genetic, and therefore paediatric, on which many start-ups are working. The future of affected children depends on their access to innovative therapies. And the future of the start-ups that offer them is itself conditioned by the delay in making their medical innovation available to the children. In this example, the PPC's inability to mobilize a pediatrician will, often dramatically, slow access to therapy. Finally, I stress that this bill does not in any way call into question the drawing of lots, which is essential to ensure that there is no conflict of interest. It is intended only to make it more intelligent so that the members of the CPCs, who, let us recall, are volunteers carrying out an essential mission with derisory means – I would like to commend their commitment here – to have more favourable conditions for making their decisions. By ricochet, it seeks to make the authorisation procedure for clinical trials effective, and thus to maintain the course of these trials on our soil. In conclusion, I would like to remind you of the stakes of this bill: first, to allow our patients to stay on the front line to benefit from the innovations; Secondly, to allow millions of euros to continue to be invested in our clinical research, and therefore in our hospitals, which I am told are in great need of them; Third, to enable the ecosystem of academic and industrial research in biology and health to develop; Finally, allow France to retain control over its clinical trials and their quality. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has placed this bill on the agenda of its parliamentary niche.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u147	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u148	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to welcome the rapporteur's work on this bill, which highlights a problem at the crossroads of scientific, ethical and economic issues. Medical research appears to be eminently necessary and it is up to us, as legislators, to promote its sustainability and effectiveness in the years to come. There is no doubt that today's clinical trials will contribute to the improvement of tomorrow's treatments and will push back our life expectancy and the boundaries of human existence to an ever more distant horizon. On the other hand, France can boast of being a leading country and a leading player in global scientific advances in this field. The abundance of tricolor patent filings as well as the Nobel Prize in Medicine in its own right bear witness to this status. Marked by a strong competitive intensity and rapid innovation cycles, French clinical research, driven by the work of our hospitals and universities, whose excellence I commend today, nevertheless suffers from a slow and largely perfecting administrative process. However, careful progress should be made on a sensitive subject that raises ethical questions of common interest. In no way can we deny that the scientific scene has been tainted by scandals about experiments on man, which in fact influences the judgment that can be borne on their ethical character. In some cases, these questionable experiments may have been financed by the public authorities and their authors have not hesitated to abuse vulnerable subjects to ensure their participation. While it is not a question of reducing the moral dilemmas posed by these experiments – which must be taken into account – the benefits of biomedical research that contribute to scientific innovation and ultimately to the preservation of many human lives must be taken into account. Studies that condition the placing on the market or the development of treatment necessarily involve clinical trials in humans. These operations are not without risk, and we all have in mind the emotion caused by the death of a voluntary patient in a clinical trial in January 2016. Therefore, in the face of such a sensitive subject, it will be easy to understand that the legislative framework for testing must be clear and precise in order to ensure the necessary level of protection for those who volunteer. There is no single model as to how to conduct experiments on man. Laws and procedures are far too general to rule on the ethical aspect of trials. This is why judgments, committees and exchanges of various arguments are used to decide whether they are to be carried out or abandoned. While these constraints may delay research or diminish the resources available for a therapeutic study, it is undeniable that they are necessary to maintain a high level of quality and to assess often complex and technical situations. Today, PPCs are the cornerstone of this system. They are based on ethical, scientific and legal criteria and have a national responsibility to validate or refuse the launch of clinical trials, and are composed of scientists, doctors and forensic experts. Without repeating the complete history of the creation of these multidisciplinary committees, it is interesting to recall the conditions for their creation. The CPCs succeeded in 2004 the Advisory Committees for the Protection of Persons in Medical Research, which had been established by the so-called Huriet-Sérusclat Act of 1988. By filling a legal gap and providing a framework for research on humans, this law itself was the heir to the Helsinki Declaration, which in 1964 defined the ethical principles of medical research on human beings. The creation of PPCs is tantamount to a strengthening of control over research on human organisms, as assent, rather than advisory, is now needed. It also corresponds to the introduction into French law of a European directive on clinical trials. The second innovation comes a decade later with the entry into force of the Jardé Act, which aims to modernize and simplify the legislative framework for this research. At the time of the review of this text, differences had emerged on how the CPC should be selected. While some supported the proponent's idea of a free choice, the principle of random distribution of protocols was ultimately used to rule out the possibility of any collusion with private interests. The establishment of the National Research Commission involving the human person is the second major step forward in this text. It is precisely this structure which, today, realizes the drawing of lots on which we question ourselves. Today, the modalities for the designation of PPCs have shown their limitations. Voluntary members of committees do not benefit from the expertise required for the in-depth review of a clinical trial project involving a human person on each medical case. It is therefore difficult to make a clear assessment of the conditions under which the sponsor of a research project guarantees the protection of participants, the relevance of the research project and the quality of the methodology used. A third innovation is now needed to make the administrative procedure more flexible and operational. We therefore welcome this bill, which provides a pragmatic solution to a problem identified by medical research actors. From a broader perspective, it is worth recalling the unequal distribution of the thirty-nine committees in the national territory and their notable absence in some departments. Thus, the map of the French medical deserts is logically superimposed and unfortunately that of the implantation of the CPCs. On the other hand, we take this opportunity to reaffirm the need to allocate to the PPCs the means necessary for their action, which, according to the law in force, takes place in a relatively short time. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The IUD Group, Agir et indépendants, therefore, calls for the adoption of this text, which, while retaining the system of drawing by lot introduced by the Jardé law, refines a process of administration that is always perfectable by guaranteeing the expertise of the CPC seized. Undoubtedly, this provision will contribute to both offering patients state-of-the-art clinical innovations, advancing science and ensuring the visibility of France in an area of excellence.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u149	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u150	Mr President, Madam Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us today intends to amend the rules of operation of the CPCs responsible for issuing a preliminary opinion on the conditions for the validity of any research involving the human person. PPCs play an essential role in public health, as they are a real safety net to protect volunteers and patients by ensuring that research respects all ethical and legal standards. I would like to point out that their operation is based exclusively on the voluntary work of their members, recognised professionals, and on the provision of premises and staff by the public health institutions to which they belong. Opinions issued by the PPCs are essential, in addition to the authorisation of the National Agency for Drugs and Health Products, for the initiation of research. Thus, for each clinical trial, a draw is made to designate a committee to review the application for clinical trials and its results. PPCs are therefore essential for medical research, for advances in science and, above all, for the protection of the public health of individuals. Through this bill, you feel that PPCs cannot respond to all of the research projects submitted to them within a reasonable time. To speed up this process of reviewing files deemed too slow, the bill does not intend to strengthen the means of these CPCs, as it would have been logical to do; Instead, it changes the modalities for drawing the PPCs to "allow a more appropriate evaluation of research projects". The New Left Group considers that the proposed solution is not the right one, and that it can even be ethically dangerous. Indeed, random drawing remains the best guarantee of the neutrality and independence of the CPCs. If the rules for drawing lots are changed, there is a concern that research projects will now be evaluated by a limited number of PPCs targeted by drug companies. Therefore, this bill unnecessarily poses a risk of increasing conflicts of interest in the medical research community. In fact, strangely, this solution to a so-called procedural slowness problem is the same one that has long been promoted by drug companies. I would remind you that France does not have to blush in terms of the number of clinical trials, since we are just behind Germany and the United Kingdom. Instead of undermining the necessary sealing between industry and CPC in the review of research files, it would have been wiser to strengthen the human, material and financial resources of PPCs. Indeed, so slow there are, they are purely administrative and are not linked to the way in which the PPCs are designated, but to their functioning. Thus, we are campaigning for an increase in public funding for PPCs, which, unfortunately, is shrinking from year to year – Madam Minister, you have just reassured us on this point. But, more broadly – recent health scandals remind us – the urgency is to restore confidence in public health. To do so, public authorities must fully assume their role as regulators and guarantors of transparency. However, this bill is exactly the opposite. Of course, the pharmaceutical industry plays an important role in medical research, but only by strengthening public research will it be possible to ensure full transparency. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, the New Left Group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u151	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u152	Mr President, Madam Minister, rapporteur, before discussing the bill submitted by the MODEM Group, I wanted to read you a few words from a work from 1932, which remains current: Paul Nizan's watchdogs. Regarding the idealistic philosophers who consider that the only life relevant to philosophy is in an abstract reason, he writes: "The historians of philosophy who make up the bulk of the philosophers of this time ensure that thoughts are subject to the special laws of a special reign of existence. They pretend to be convinced by the assurance they give. Thought seems to them to be a truly pure activity carried out by beings who have neither place nor time and who are not united to a body, by beings who have no coordinates." It seems to me important to remind the rapporteur that a Member is never without contact information and that his actions are not in a sort of parallel world. When we pointed out in committee possible convergences of interest between your situation, the positions of the laboratories and this bill, you were offended, considering that our question was an ad hominem argument, a personal attack outside the scope of parliamentary debate. You then replied: "I am speaking as rapporteur and not as a person. » Each and every one of us, ladies and gentlemen, is a person, you will agree. The defence that you outlined on the day of the examination of your bill in committee, Mr.Rapporteur, is surprising: would we be capable of duplication so that there is no connection between our social person and our mandate as representative of the nation? On the contrary, it was our life and commitment that prompted us to stand for election. Once elected, we must represent the general interest, that is for sure. However, this is a proven fact, it is easier to grasp the general interest when one is not too close to particular interests. This is all the more important in terms of public health, since it can be a question of life or death. It was as Members that my colleagues from La France insoumée questioned themselves in committee. And this question was not intended to expose you as a person, rapporteur. It was a political question, because it seems to us important, in democracy, that declarations of interest be public and transparent, in order to inform the public debate. It does not seem illegitimate to me to discuss the relevance of entrusting to a Sanofi shareholder – of course, for only 92 shares, but shareholder – the task of reporting a bill on the expertise of the personal protection committees. In the name of democratic transparency and so that your text is not tainted by suspicions of conflict of interest, it seems to me important that the fact that you received, from 2012 to 2016, more than 3,500 euros of gifts in kind from pharmaceutical laboratories be known. Because this is a political issue, we propose, through an amendment, that the consideration of any bill or bill on health policy should result in the publication of a declaration of conflict of interest by the rapporteurs appointed to the National Assembly and the Senate, as well as prior consultation with the High Authority for the transparency of public life. From this point of view, the concordance between the explanatory memorandum of this bill and the claims of pharmaceutical lobbies is troubling to say the least: you take word for word the claims made by LEEM – Les Entreprises du médication –, the lobby of French pharmaceutical manufacturers. I am concerned that legislation is so clearly echoing private interests that threaten public health. The bill is a response to the expectations of the pharmaceutical lobby, which considers the approaches to the overly long and complex protection committees. Once again, the chorus of complexity and the necessary speed pushes them, and you with, to go overboard the guiding principle in the field of public health: the interest of patients. Moreover, the explanatory memorandum does not mention the latter for a single moment. No, for you, what matters is that the pharmaceutical industries can put their products on the market as quickly as possible. It is a question of personal protection committees. Their primary purpose and purpose is precisely the health of those involved in clinical trials. Forty such committees, composed of researchers, health professionals, users, representatives of associations and psychologists, exist throughout the country. Each referral to these committees results in a drawing of lots by the National Research Commission involving the human person. By your bill, you intend to restrict the scope of this draw to committees with an expert member on the issue on which one of the committees will be asked to deliver an opinion. I think it is possible to convince you by reason, Mr rapporteur, of the risks posed by your proposed legislation. Perhaps you will then make another opinion. Moreover, your argument is inadmissible, as members of committees who are not experts on specific issues are formed. Let us begin by going back to the usefulness of drawing lots as such. Through this mechanism, the pharmaceutical industries cannot know in advance which committee will be chosen. This ensures the independence of these committees. With your new system, which you describe as some sort of consensus-based technical improvement, it is the independence of the personal protection committees that you question. If there are fewer participants in the drawing of lots, Mr rapporteur, it is not necessary to consider the problem for a long time to realize that the committees will be more threatened by the private interests of pharmaceutical laboratories, that it will be easier for these major drug dealers to make sure that they sell as quickly as possible. This is the sense of a speed at all costs that is imposed by money, not by the will to heal as quickly as possible. Many biologists say this: laboratories spend more time improving the margin achieved with a particular drug than engaging in long-term research against diseases that remain incurable. We do not throw stones at them: it is the logic of the market that works this way. It is unacceptable for our health to be subjected to such logic, to the speed of circulation of billions of the pharmaceutical industry. Your bill is in line with the interests of this greedy industry, which today is far removed from those of our fellow citizens. Is it necessary to recall here the case of the Mediator or that of contaminated blood so that the consciences of the representatives of the nation awaken to the absolute absence of morals of the drug industry? Far removed from the conceptions and interests that led to the drafting of this text, we suggest, on the contrary, that you strengthen the prerogatives of the personal protection committees by assigning them the evaluation of the scientific and methodological design of the clinical trial. This is a sine qua non for patient protection. This will verify that they have been properly informed and that their consent has been clearly formulated. All independent minds guided by unwavering concern for the general interest should be able to agree on the need to strengthen the power of personal protection committees rather than weaken their independence. I mentioned the disproportionate and harmful weight of the pharmaceutical industry on public health issues. The review of this text is also an opportunity to see the disastrous impact of the submission of pharmaceutical research to the logic of profitability and profit, and to launch an alert on this subject. To the attention of those who have never participated in demonstrations, I indicate that, in addition to people who are very sympathetic and attached to human fraternity, there are particularly relevant slogans such as this: "Our lives are better than their profits. When it comes to public health, these words find a particular echo. Yes, rapporteur, to you and to the government that you support, I believe that it will never be pointless to recall that our lives do not have any prizes and that it is not possible to play with them on the stock exchange. That is why we will ask, by amendment, for a report assessing the various possibilities for creating a public centre for the medicine. Such a report would confirm, if only by bringing together the various existing studies, the harmful nature of for-profit pharmaceutical research. We must give serious thought, ladies and gentlemen, to the creation of such a public drug centre. I invite you to consult carefully the programme of La France insoumée, several pages of which are devoted to the essential question of health. From the perspective we propose, this public hub would be structured around the CNRS – National Centre for Scientific Research – and the INSERM – National Institute of Health and Medical Research. It would be devoted not only to research, but also to the production of drugs. I assure you that this would change the working atmosphere and calm the arrogance of private pharmaceutical laboratories. In the Republic, the means must be put in place to guarantee the general interest. For this, it is necessary that the public power be strong enough to overcome particular interests solely motivated by gain and money. The La France insoumise group will oppose this text, which has no reason to be and echoes far too much the interests of the pharmaceutical lobby. I started my speech with Paul Nizan. Allow me to conclude with Spinoza, in order to invite you to reflect again on the links that some might or might not have with private interests: "A State [...] whose salvation depends on the loyalty of one or another, and whose affairs can only be properly taken over on condition that those who deal with them have the will to act faithfully, will have no stability. For it to last, on the contrary, public affairs must be ordered in such a way that those who administer them, whether they are led by reason or by affect, cannot be led to lack of loyalty or to act wrongly. »
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u153	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u154	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the personal protection committees in our country play a crucial role in the control of medical research, since all clinical trial projects undertaken by research actors, whether public or private, must obtain a favourable opinion from them in order to be implemented. Since the 2012 Jardé law, which we supported, these bodies ensure that biomedical research projects on human beings conducted in France respect various measures – medical, ethical and legal – aimed at ensuring the protection of those who will participate in this research. The multidisciplinary composition of these committees, which include doctors, but also people from civil society, provides an ethical and comprehensive look at clinical trial projects. At the same time, the random nature of the assignment of research files to committees is the best way to avoid conflicts of interest and understanding. The sole article in this text aims to revisit the method of designation, now completely random, of the personal protection committees, stating that the designation will be "from among the committees available and having the necessary competence to examine the nature of the project". As we mentioned in committee, we are reserved on this bill, in several ways. As we begin to consider the revision of bioethics laws, we reaffirm the need to maintain a strong requirement in this regard. However, this text may give the impression of responding to considerations of economic competition. Of course, clinical research, leading to the commercialization of new or innovative medicines or treatments, is a leading sector in France that contributes to medical progress. But it is also a market where high rates of profitability are sought and where private players in the pharmaceutical industry compete fiercely, with problematic and sometimes questionable practices. In January 2018, the monthly Economic Alternatives revealed the extent of the influence strategies deployed by pharmaceutical laboratories to doctors and future doctors in hospitals and medical schools to defend their interests. The facilitation of the life of research must not be done at the expense of the protection of the person or at the cost of a relaxation of ethical rules. However, this bill largely reflects a demand from the pharmaceutical industry, relayed by the LEEM. We are well in the logic of competition, and we must be careful not to give them everything. There are, however, some cases where the lack of jurisdiction on individual protection committees may delay the review of a research project. This is the case, for example, where projects involve minors under 16 years of age. The presence of a pediatrician is then required, but the paediatrician is not always present or available. However, in our view, the fundamental problem is elsewhere: it is intimately linked to the lack of resources allocated to personal protection committees to function. I have noted the first commitments you made in this regard, Madam Minister, in your opening remarks. For us, given the challenges, the organization of these committees needs to be strengthened. On this point, we probably share the same observation: committees find it difficult to deliver their opinions within the prescribed time-frame due to a staggering lack of human and financial resources. Their operation today relies mainly on volunteering and the provision of resources – local, secretarial – by the hospitals to which they are attached. But we both know the current state of hospitals: they themselves have the greatest difficulty in closing their budgets. In addition, the financial resources of the committees are made up of a State allocation, the reduction of which we see every year. It now amounts to €3.3 million, compared to €3.5 million in 2012, while, as has been said, the burden of cases to be dealt with does not decrease – it even tends to increase. As you pointed out in committee, Mr rapporteur, the personal protection committees now have only one full-time equivalent. In these circumstances, it seems difficult to require these committees to be responsive and to carry out the tasks assigned to them properly, although I do not doubt, of course, the quality of their work. While I am aware that the question of means is a matter of budgetary discussion, I believe that your text does not address this substantive problem. You are proposing a modification of the procedure for drawing lots. On the contrary, we fear that, on the pretext of efficiency, this provision will weaken the fight against conflicts of interest. That is why we cannot follow you in this direction. More broadly, the debate on this bill refers to fundamental issues related to public control and transparency of biomedical research for the commercialization of new drugs and treatments. The drug market is now very profitable and very competitive. Our country is the fifth largest in the world in terms of drug sales. Profitability, however, too often directs investment, leaving aside basic needs. We can no longer allow firms to determine research priorities on their own. On the contrary, recent health scandals, such as the Mediator's, call for more public regulation so that drug policy is not subject to financial logic. For its part, our group is calling for the establishment of a public drug hub, which would allow the drug chain – research, production, distribution – to be re-appropriated, now mainly in the hands of manufacturers. It is an economic issue as an issue of health democracy. Guided by the desire to ensure the protection of individuals and to prevent conflicts of interest in medical research, we will not vote on your bill, while calling on the Government to continue along the lines indicated by the Minister, improving the means of the personal protection committees and strengthening their organization.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u155	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u156	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, clinical research in France is an area of excellence, in which our researchers and medical teams have been demonstrating their expertise and innovation capabilities for several decades. They participate on a daily basis in the improvement of medical science knowledge, the development of new medicines and the advancement of science. Effective and ambitious clinical research is also a strategic issue for our country. Medical progress and innovation cycles are currently very rapid. This scientific agility must quickly benefit our fellow citizens. Our legislative and regulatory system must be able to adapt and be responsive, with a single objective: to ensure that patients, particularly those with serious conditions, are able to benefit diligently, to whom medical progress brings a hope of survival at the same time as a hope of healing, new therapeutic advances. At European level, each country is now able to develop quality clinical research, which is becoming de facto competitive. Our legislative and regulatory ambition is to preserve the attractiveness of high-quality research in France. Clinical research has been guided since 2016 by the application of the Jardé law voted in 2012. I agree with you, Mr rapporteur: this text deserves to be improved on a small number of points in order to encourage the development of clinical trials in France, in order to allow us to maintain our full attractiveness, in particular by amending and improving the rules on the designation of personal protection committees. The current blocking points are multiple. Validation of a clinical research protocol requires approval by a currently randomized PPC. Unfortunately, some research protocols are sometimes attributed to PPCs with a lack of expertise or specific skills, which delays the validation process. We are therefore moving in the direction of our MODEM colleagues to fluidize and accelerate this innovation path. To validate a clinical research protocol in an efficient and appropriate manner, we believe that each PPC must be associated with a number of specific areas of expertise and expertise of its own. We also want to bring and ensure greater coherence to the study of clinical research programmes and, to this end, to take into account the organizational availability of PPCs, to date made up – it is important to remember – of volunteers, to whom only a small amount of paid secretarial time is allocated. Of course, we intend to maintain the ethical sense and transparency of the drawing by lot of the CPCs. This, of course, seems essential to us. In the end, we would like above all to speed up the procedures for access to clinical research, whether industrial or academic. Beyond the work carried out today in this Chamber, through this piece of legislation, I believe that we must, more broadly, soon take up the points raised by our colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille in his report on the other challenges to be met in order to optimise and strengthen French medical attractiveness. All these avenues of work and openness will have to be the subject of a legislative review in the near future, where it will be important to adapt national law to new and future European requirements. We will naturally have to be vigilant, but also visionary, for these superpositions, or rather these convergences, to become an opportunity for clinical research activity in France, and not to the contrary have a deleterious effect. It is this work that we will have to carry out collectively, as was done here in the framework of the MODEM Group's proposal for a law. Thank you, rapporteur, for the welcome you have given me to every hearing related to your report. I stress your intention and willingness without fail to preserve the transparency of the PPCs, and above all your interest in the possibility for patients to access the progress of the research for their sole benefit. On this point, I fully agree with you. I can hear the criticisms to the industry, but at this very moment I think first of all of the patients who can be better treated, better treated, and even, for some, saved. I regret that France, by a concern of blind egalitarianism, seems to forget that the sick can and must benefit from the clinical advances that their country is able to offer them. In order to maintain the efficiency of our clinical research system, legislative intent must be appropriate by showing finesse and avoiding unnecessary regulatory inflation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Thus, our Group supports this text, which adapts legislation while guaranteeing independence and ethics to the CPCs. Aimé Césaire said: "The scientific truth is a sign of coherence and efficiency. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us be coherent and effective in the study of this text, by fine-tuning the conditions for the drawing of lots of the CPCs, which is being discussed today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u157	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u158	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "We are not waiting for the future as we expect the train. The future we do," said Georges Bernanos. We imagine the future, we shape it, we build it. That is precisely what brings us together today: our ability to think about the future. The future of research in France. France's place in the world of research. We do not have this place to envy anyone, because we have conquered it by the excellence of our research, the expertise of our researchers, the ability of our public authorities to support medical innovation, the quality and training of our universities. Thanks to science, our relationship to the world has changed. Progress seems infallible in its course towards the future. The uses are transformed. Our daily lives have improved. We live better and longer. But there are moments in history when we must redouble our efforts because science crystallizes the paradox of the temptation of the hybris in the face of the need for vigilance. History still remembers the horrors of war. She doesn't forget the apprentice doctors who played the sorcerer apprentices. However, it took more than thirty years to give birth, in 1988, to the Advisory Committees for the Protection of Persons for Medical Research, thirty-one years after the publication of the Nuremberg Code. Then, the first so-called "bioethics" laws of 1994 established the principles of the primacy of the human person, respect for the human being from the beginning of his life, inviolability, integrity and lack of heritage character of the human body. The dignity of the human person now has constitutional value. It is in this spirit that the Human Protection Committees have been introduced by the Public Health Policy Act of 2004, which defines their role and tasks, and that they have been strengthened on several occasions, until the Order of 16 June 2016. PPCs are not administrative authorities. They're not responsible for telling the law. They are not religious or moral authorities. They are not responsible for speaking morals. They are there to say ethics, which in the name of man and his humanity is acceptable – or is not acceptable – in terms of medical experimentation. If law and ethics progress slowly, gradually, innovations push history. In the field of health, in particular, the technological capabilities enriched by robotics, digitalization, significant advances in cognitive sciences or on the genome have transformed operating methods and brought therapies to diseases that were once considered incurable. "Without the curiosity of the mind, what would we be? This is indeed the beauty and nobility of science: an endless desire to push the boundaries of knowledge, to hunt down the secrets of matter and life. If these words of Mary Curie still resonate, progress must not, cannot be an end in itself unless one wonders about its impact on man and his humanity. So where should the right cursor be placed? How far does the law have to go to combine the therapeutic benefits of research with the necessary protection of the human person? How far must research be forced in France, a country of innovation and scientific excellence? The first artificial heart developed in France. Promising discoveries of AIDS treatment have been made in France. An artificial pancreas device was created in France. A new generation of predictive tests was designed in France to determine the evolution of fibrosis. However, France's place is eroded year after year. The number of clinical trials is decreasing, often due to administrative constraints. The number of scientific publications is falling. And the attractiveness of France could be in the dark. However, the health sector is undergoing an unprecedented revolution, accelerated by the convergence of biological advances, engineering innovations and information technology. France must embrace this mutation, accompany it, seize it. Therefore, in the face of this ever-defeated horizon of possibilities, we have a requirement: that of a fairer, better funded and better regulated research. Because researchers and entrepreneurs create the health of tomorrow. This will be predictive, personalized. It will provide responses to inequalities in the provision of care in the territories. It will be fairer, because it will allow patients to keep hope when they are struck by orphaned or incurable diseases. She'll be collaborative. And she will have to remain responsible. If science invites us to rethink the organization of health, it also calls on us to revisit the boundaries of human beings, the boundaries that we thought were frozen yesterday and that move by and with the progress of research. "It is only through and through my body that I can be myself," declared Michel Foucault, placing the question of man in the continuity of Roman law, where the body was inseparable from being, and therefore where the subject of law differs from the object of law. Since then, the experimentation of new treatments on the human person, placed under the scientific and ethical evaluation of the CPCs, has made the body a subject of research. It is also an object of research when organ, cell, tissue transplants are performed or when implants, mechanical, electronic, robotic prostheses are installed instead of the flesh. Thus, the anthropological question – what is man? – gradually slides towards the utilitarian vision: what can we do with man? It is indeed an intellectual reversal that requires questioning the relationship between the body and the human person. Does our body belong to us? Should our body be distinguished from our consciousness, from our individuality? In short, is our body our person? How can we not question with Habermas this particular relationship of man and his body in the understanding that he will have of himself, of what constitutes him and possibly confers his autonomy on him? Who am I if part of me comes from another body? In the face of these countless challenges, what place should France hold? If France is France and research has never poured into excesses or drifts, it is because France has always fed on this complex tension between science and ethics, between progress and humanity. But what position should it adopt in the face of those other countries, sometimes bordering on them, which do not have the same scruples with regard to the ethical question? Is it the role of France, this France of Enlightenment, Science, Philosophy and Reason, to go further in research, to better control and regulate it? Ladies and gentlemen, if this or that part of my speech has appeared to you as a somewhat philosophical digression in relation to the subject, be assured that this is not the case. Because the CPCs are at the heart of the organization of ethics in our country, because it is their primary mission, they could not be considered from a procedural point of view alone. In this year when the debate on the reform of bioethics laws begins, let us not be afraid to put ethics at the heart of each of our questions, to make them, wherever possible, a subject of debate and discussion. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Because the bill does not affect the CPC's ethical mandate or its independence, as it retains the random character of its designation, the Republican Group will support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u159	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u160	Mr President, Madam Minister, the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the MODEM Group's bill is of great importance for clinical research in our country. While France is in the top three of European countries in terms of clinical trials, it is evolving in a highly competitive environment in which the quality and speed of procedures must always be better ensured. This is a major concern, so that patients can benefit as soon as possible from the best therapeutic innovations and that our scientific knowledge of pathologies and their determinants can progress ever more. It is also a major issue for the country's scientific and economic attractiveness and the dynamism of our health industries. Finally, it is a subject which, involving the health of people, has a strong ethical dimension. It is the role of the personal protection committees, whose present text proposes to adapt the method of designation, to formulate an ethical opinion on clinical research projects. In the field of clinical research, France strengthened its legislative arsenal with the adoption in 2012 of the Jardé law. This text has strengthened the role of the personal protection committees, with the dual objective of improving their effectiveness and independence by avoiding any conflict of interest. The proposal we are considering today is a continuation of this law and proposes to address the main implementation difficulties that have occurred almost two years after the adoption of implementing legislation. His unique article aims to improve the drawing system, while preserving its random character. The random designation of committees is indeed indispensable for the independence of the authorisation of clinical trials conducted in France, a major concern which, I believe, is shared on all the benches of our assembly. This bill will not, of course, solve all the questions posed by the conduct of clinical research. It is a necessary first step to smooth up the authorisation procedures and remove the blockages that slow them down. But it does not exhaust all the subjects and encourages the legislator to take into account the other challenges posed by the framework of research on human beings. Your report, Mr rapporteur, is very good. As such, I would like to focus on the work and commitment of the members of the two colleges, both scientific and societal, who must make up the personal protection committees. The ethical opinion given by these committees is necessary for the authorisation of each clinical trial, as is the scientific opinion of the ANSM. Their role is thus indispensable for the conduct of clinical research in France and has a real dimension of general interest. However, their work is based on the principle of volunteerism. Without calling into question this principle, which helps to ensure the full independence of the CPCs, it seems essential today both to strengthen the means necessary for the proper functioning of these committees and to value the work of those who voluntarily agree to participate in them. As rightly pointed out in our committee's report, participation in clinical research evaluation projects is not particularly recognized by health professionals. This may even lead to difficulties for members when it comes to obtaining the work dumps needed to conduct their assessment work. The risk, in the long run, is well identified: the attractiveness of these assessment missions could erode as a result of the difficulties they create for the professionals involved. This could call into question the proper functioning of clinical trials, and ultimately the access of patients to innovative therapies and the scientific reach of France. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is why, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that we must work together to improve the essential role of the volunteers who make up these committees. This could take the form of a career development, training or certification. It also seems to me important to raise awareness of the work of these committees among the younger generations who will shape the medicine and health world of tomorrow. My dear colleagues, as we can see, many questions still deserve to be asked. I know that we will be particularly vigilant when considering our future work.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u161	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u162	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although everyone seems to be in a hurry to finish, let me begin with a digression before we come back to the subject we are dealing with. I had to comment on the composition of the personal protection committees. And then I thought I'd talk to you about the agriculture bill, because I learned, no later than last night, that non-registered Members like me will each have only two minutes of speaking time on this major bill, so there is no effective opportunity to defend their amendments. I also thought I'd talk to you about the ÉLAN housing bill, because for this very important piece of legislation, if it is, every unregistered Member of Parliament will have no less than three minutes of speaking time! So I thought, if we were talking about freedom of expression? Because the cup is full! Each debate in the Chamber provides further proof of this: your majority will not stand for a contradiction or a dispute. Even common sense amendments have difficulty finding thanks to your eyes when they come from other benches than yours. Your last find? As I said, it is a matter of changing the organization of the discussion of the two bills I have just mentioned. The result of the races: all non-attached MPs will have a total of 40 minutes for the first project and an hour for the second.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u163	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u164	I repeat, three minutes per unregistered MP – we are twenty – for housing and two minutes for agriculture... Non-registrants form a disparate set. They have little in common, except for a shared desire not to be considered as Members so useless that they should be silenced or almost silenced. We do not intend to be reduced to the role of extras. We cannot believe, we do not want to believe that there is a majority of Members in this House who agree without abhorring that we are being imposed unfair rules. Freedom of expression cannot be the privilege of a few. Emmanuel Macron had said, among other thoughts of "paraphilosophy", as we speak of "parapharmacy" that he would be "the master of clocks". His zealators obviously understood that he was talking about chronometers. They handle them like a pair of scissors. Having said that, in speaking of pharmacy, precisely, or more precisely of medicine, and in order not to seem to disinterest me with the personal protection committees and their designation, I would like to say that this bill is of common sense, and that it even makes sense. I agree, of course, that it is preferable for individual protection committees to be able to enrich their thinking by drawing on members whose expertise is necessary to render an opinion. But this change in the way they are designated does not lead us to overshadow or decide on debates and the ethical issues that arise from the research. At the time of the general states of bioethics, it seems to me difficult, if not impossible, to avoid this subject, since we are talking about the setting up of committees that reflect precisely on the protection of the human person. It is clear that scientific research and progress must be encouraged. It makes no sense to oppose it. On the other hand, this research must not be carried out without safeguards. And because some of them have already jumped, we must apply an essential principle, that of prudence. Many texts – I think, for example, article L. 2151-5 of the Public Health Code on "biomedical research in the context of reproductive health care" – are confusing. They allow all interpretations, and all abuses are possible, with, at the key, all the drifts we see, through the rise in power of transhumanism. Let's be on our guard. One last word about our personal protection committees: as you know, the practice of drawing lots goes back to Athenian democracy. It was intended to guarantee the impartiality and representativeness of the social body. May it be the same with the subject we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u165	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u166	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u167	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No 3, which deletes the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u168	I'm not going to repeat what I insisted on earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u169	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u170	We logically call for the deletion of this article, and therefore for the rejection of this text. Contrary to what the pharmaceutical industry has been repeating for several years and trying to make us believe, our country remains very well positioned in terms of the production of clinical trials. Our legislation does not prevent these processes from existing. On the contrary, by ensuring that patients are protected at best, they encourage participation in these studies. I think we would have done better to discuss the means given to these committees rather than to call for specialization and, therefore, to put their independence at stake. This article accurately reflects the analyses and wishes of the drug manufacturers. Since the profitable operating time of a drug is limited by the expiry time of a patent, they are obsessed with minimizing the time taken to introduce a new product into the market. As I said, this echoes the concerns of the main French lobby, LEEM – Drug companies. We believe that this bill is a medical aberration, and that is why we are calling for the deletion of this single article.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u172	Madam Member, I have already answered these questions. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u174	We have already responded to the ethical risk. On the one hand, the drawing of lots persists. On the other hand, I am committed to increasing the means of operation of the PPCs to facilitate their work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LR groups]] Having said that, I would like to point out that the debate has been drifting from the beginning on the industrial lobby. Let's talk about French clinical research. Of the clinical trials, 30% are purely academic in nature and are not dictated by industry. Let me mention the field that I know best, namely French cancerology, which is the field where research is most dynamic. Reports from the National Cancer Institute show that there are now more than 800 academic trials in cancerology, only 600 industrial trials and 700 open trials, where a drug is not tested. You see, therefore, that the number of trials that do not involve industry is much higher than the number that are generated by industrialists. It seems to me important to recall these figures. We have joined major associations promoting clinical trials, such as the ARC Foundation for Cancer Research or the League Against Cancer, associations of patients, such as Imagine for Margo, who are trying to develop drugs against childhood cancers, or associations that fight against cystic fibrosis. All these associations are in favour of this text, because it will speed up medical progress. Focusing the debate on the industrial lobby seems to me to betray a misperception of what current French clinical research is. I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u175	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u176	Everyone agrees that the length of the deadlines can be a difficulty. Our disagreement is about the methods to be used to shorten them. I protest against a way of presenting the debate between those who would like to respond to this issue and those who would satisfy themselves with the length of time and would accept that patients are obliged to wait before they can be met. The cleavage isn't that one. If we want to have a calm debate, we must not distort the various arguments involved. As far as I am concerned, I consider that there are steps to be taken to improve this situation. I referred to it in the general discussion and you responded in part, Madam Minister. We believe that, in order to really solve this difficulty, transparency and the drawing of lots as they exist today must not be restricted. We need to strengthen the existing organisation. The reasons you have given, Madam Minister, justify this all the more: it is necessary to respond more quickly to the requests that are made by all those who are seeking, in our country, and who are advancing medical research.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u178	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u179	I had invited our colleagues from France to reread Mr Isaac-Sibille's report. In fact, clinical research proponents and investigators should not be mixed. The latter are doctors, associate professors, heads of department of university hospital centres. It is not the pharmaceutical industry that directs and monitors research.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u180	Mr rapporteur, is Amendment No 5 drafting?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u181	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u182	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u183	We propose that any bill or proposal for a law on health policy, excluding bills on the financing of social security and finance law, should be the subject of a declaration of conflict of interest by the rapporteur of the text to the National Assembly and the Senate, and of prior consultation with the High Authority for the transparency of public life. Once again, it is not a question of ensnaring or attacking any of the people present here, and certainly not you, rapporteur; It is a matter of asking a democratic question. The latter is important, because the proliferation of health scandals and the regular failure of drug evaluation and control bodies have created a high level of distrust among our fellow citizens with regard to health policies. This transparency effort seems important to me in order to inform the public debate and enable it to take place in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u184	What is the opinion of the committee, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u185	First of all, allow me to thank the Minister for the support announced to the CPC secretariat and for the enhancement of the volunteer journeys, which devote one day a month to the work of the committees. I would also like to thank Philippe Berta and Audrey Dufeu Schubert. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Panot, you are starting from an inaccurate and slanderous presupposition to arrive at a proposal that is very unrespectful of parliamentary sovereignty. Your main reason for objection is that the text would have been blown by the pharmaceutical industry, which is completely inaccurate, as the minister explained. Hearings have shown that the problem of the implementation of the Jardé law is much more complex. I regret that I have never seen you or any member of your group during these hearings. It's nice to come to the Chamber, but come and work with us to draft these bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u186	It is not the La France group that can be blamed for not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u187	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To propose, as your amendment does, a preliminary consultation with the High Authority on the transparency of public life before any appointment of a rapporteur raises a problem of principle. We are in an autonomous and sovereign assembly. There is no need to make the sovereign decision of an assembly dependent on an unelected institution, which enjoys the anointing of universal suffrage. Like you, I have been nominated by a number of voters, not by a few industries or agencies. I ask you to give me credit for this, just as I ask you to give me credit for having honestly completed my declaration of interest; I am happy and proud to have done so in full transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u188	We didn't say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u189	You suggest that our assembly has not set any rules to prevent conflicts of interest, which is very disrespectful of our predecessors who have had the merit of making clarifications, which no one is contesting here. So you are conveying to our fellow citizens a misguided image of our assembly. If you consider these rules inappropriate, I recommend that you submit a proposal to amend our rules of procedure. I have an opinion against the adoption of your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u190	What is the Government's opinion, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u191	Unfavorable notice for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u192	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u193	The rapporteur, the Group of the European People's Party, has only seventeen members, and the last criticism that can be made of it, whether or not we agree with its ideas, is not to work. Our group is extremely present, not just in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u194	You weren't present at the auditions!
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u195	It's possible, but we're seventeen. This amendment calls on the Government to prepare a report examining the health relevance of the takeover by the public authorities of biomedical research and the production of medicines. This seems extremely important to us, since the pharmaceutical sector, the world's largest market, is in the hands of several large private groups, whose power is such that they regularly manage to influence public decision-making and fool state control agencies. Repeated health scandals, from Vioxx to Levothyrox to Dépakine and Mediator, have highlighted what the quest for profitability can do to public health. But what requires even more urgent action, and I draw your attention to this point, ladies and gentlemen, is the enormous challenge of bacterial resistance to antibiotics. The World Health Organization estimates that this resistance kills 700000 people a year around the world. WHO calls on States to meet this challenge, but the discovery of an antibiotic is exceptional today and its development requires more than a decade. Will States be able to cope with these challenges by continuing to entrust the production and search for medicines to companies that want to blow up shareholders' remuneration scores, their unfortunate habit being to pay them 15 to 20 per cent per year? Will they be able to rely on people with whom financial analysts wonder about the economic sustainability of healing? In the face of this challenge of the twenty-first century, public authorities are best placed to ensure the production of medicines, in cooperation with other countries of the world and on the basis of a strategy that is planned, rational, attentive in the long term and free from the parasites of the search for short-term profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u196	What is the opinion of the committee, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u197	My opinion is unfavorable. This bill concerns medical research, not the organization of the pharmaceutical sector or the production of medicines.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u198	What is the Government's opinion, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u199	Madam Member, you are asking for a report, which is a horseman in the context of a proposal for a law on the procedure for appointing committees for the protection of persons. Moreover, the National Assembly may at any time hear the CPCs, if you wish to have a return on the implementation of this reform, which will in any case be done in full transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u200	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2018-05-17-O1216.u201	Next sitting, Tuesday, 22 May 2018, at 15:00: Questions to the Government; Discussion of the bill to balance trade relations in the agriculture and food sector and healthy and sustainable food. The meeting is adjourned.
